--- Page 1 ---
32  Undergraduate CatalogUNDERGRADUATE CATALOG
Past Undergraduate Studies Catalogs, which include course descriptions,
are archived at: Archived Course Catalogs  (https://www.luc.edu/
academics/catalog/archivedcoursecatalogs/#den232843 )
Loyola University Chicago is an independent, Catholic and urban
university with a Jesuit heritage, emphasizing the development of the
intellectual, social and moral values, and character of its students.
Dedicated to higher education and health care, the university has
national, regional and international influence.
The Undergraduate Studies Catalog provides students with information
regarding the academic policies and regulations of the university,
the university Core Curriculum, and the policies and programs of the
undergraduate schools and college that make up Loyola's undergraduate
programs.
The undergraduate studies catalog is issued annually, prior to the start
of the Fall Term of the new academic year.  Undergraduate students are
governed by the catalog issued for the academic year in which they enter
Loyola University Chicago.
Accreditation
Loyola University Chicago is accredited by The Higher Learning
Commission (HLC). Contact HLC at 800.621.7440 or visit:
www.hlccommission.org  (https://www.hlcommission.org/ ).
Student Responsibilities
It is the personal responsibility of each student to actively know all the
pertinent regulations set forth in the Undergraduate Studies Catalog.
Within the various undergraduate schools and college, the only ofﬁcial
interpretation or modiﬁcation of academic regulations are those which
are made in writing by the Dean of the school or college of which the
student is a member.
Catalog Disclaimer
This catalog is published for informational purposes. Although every
attempt is made to ensure accurate information, the information provided
should be used only as a reference and planning tool. While students
are governed by the catalog that is in effect in the academic year in
which they enter, students should not assume that the catalog is a
contract between Loyola University Chicago and students. The Board of
Trustees of Loyola University Chicago reserves the right to change, at any
time, without notice, graduation requirements, fees and other charges,
curriculum, course structure and content, and other such matters as may
be within its control, notwithstanding any information set forth in this
catalog. Students should always consult with their college advisors to
conﬁrm all information.
This Academic Catalog lists the approved courses for the plan of study
during the published Catalog Year. A current Loyola student's degree
requirements are based on when the major or minor was ofﬁcially
declared , and may differ from what is shown in this document. Loyola
students should work with their academic advisor and refer to My
Academic Requirements in LOCUS for their individualized lists of
approved courses. Final conﬁrmation of all degree requirements is
subject to department, school, and university approval.Non-Discrimination Policy
Loyola University Chicago will not discriminate in its programs and
activities on the basis of race, color, religion, national origins, sex,
age, ancestry, marital status, sexual orientation, arrest record, military
status or unfavorable military discharge, physical or mental handicap or
disability.
Conﬁdentiality of Education Records
Loyola University Chicago complies with the provisions of the Family
Education Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 ("FERPA") when releasing
personally identiﬁable information concerning students. FERPA stipulates
that a student's education record is conﬁdential information and must
not be released without prior written consent of the student. FERPA
does permit the release of "Directory Information. " Directory information
is information which would not generally be considered harmful or an
invasion of privacy if disclosed. Students have the right to withhold
"directory Information. " However, the student should consider the
consequences of such a request as Loyola University Chicago will honor
the request, until removed in writing by the student. Loyola University
Chicago has determined directory information to consist of a student's:
•Name
•Address(es) and telephone number
•University e-mail address
•Photograph
•Major and minor ﬁeld(s) of study, including the college, division,
department, institute or program in which the student is enrolled
•Dates of attendance
•Grade level (Such as freshman, sophomore, junior, senior or graduate
level)
•Enrollment status (Undergraduate or graduate, full-time or part-time)
•Date of graduation
•Degree(s) received
•Honors or awards received, including selection to a Dean's list or
honorary organization
•Participation in ofﬁcially recognized activities or sports
•Weight and height of members of athletic teams
Rights Reserved
The President and ofﬁcers of Loyola University Chicago reserve the
right to change information, regulations, requirements and procedures
announced in this catalog; to change the requirements for admission,
graduation or degrees; to change the arrangements, scheduling, credit or
content of courses; and to change the fees listed in this catalog.
The University reserves the right to refuse to admit or readmit any
student at any time should it be deemed necessary in the interest of the
student or of the University to do so and to require the withdrawal of any
student at any time who fails to give satisfactory evidence of academic
ability, earnestness of purpose, or active cooperation in all requirements
for acceptable scholarship.
Arrupe College
Mission Statement
Arrupe College is a two-year college of Loyola University Chicago that
continues the Jesuit tradition of offering a rigorous liberal arts education

--- Page 2 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 33
to a diverse population, many of whom are the ﬁrst in their family to
pursue higher education.
Using an innovative model that ensures affordability while providing
care for the whole person—intellectually, morally, and spiritually—Arrupe
prepares its graduates to continue on to a bachelor’s program or move
into meaningful employment. Heeding the call of its namesake, renowned
Jesuit leader Pedro Arrupe, S.J., the college inspires its students to strive
for excellence, work for justice, and become “persons for others. ”
Arrupe Programs
•Business Administration (AA)  (p. 41)
•Liberal Arts (AA) + Bilingual/Bicultural Education (B.S.Ed.)  (p. 42)
•Liberal Arts with a Concentration in Communication (AA)  (p. 43)
•Liberal Arts with a Concentration in English (AA)  (p. 44)
•Liberal Arts with a Concentration in History (AA)  (p. 45)
•Liberal Arts with a Concentration in Pre-STEM (AA)  (p. 47)
•Social and Behavioral Sciences (AA) + Nursing (BS)  (p. 48)
•Social and Behavioral Sciences with a Concentration in Criminal
Justice (AA)  (p. 49)
•Social and Behavioral Sciences with a Concentration in Political
Science (AA)  (p. 50)
•Social and Behavioral Sciences with a Concentration in Psychology
(AA)  (p. 51)
Learning Outcomes
1.Communication: You will communicate effectively, using written, oral,
and visual modes appropriate to your audience and purpose.
2.Quantitative Reasoning: You will understand, analyze, and evaluate
numerical data and use it to draw or evaluate conclusions.
3.Critical Thinking: You will analyze, synthesize, and evaluate diverse
information, ideas, and perspectives in a contextually appropriate
manner. You will demonstrate an awareness of your own thinking and
decision-making processes, and their importance in academic and
non-academic settings.
4.Ethical Reasoning: You will demonstrate historically grounded
awareness of ethical concepts and frameworks. You will evaluate,
articulate, and apply ethical reasoning in decision-making, showing
awareness of the intersectional2 and historical nature of the
relationships/situations being studied.
5.Social Justice: You will reflect on social, political, and historical
events, contexts, and norms that lead to injustice, and then articulate
responses that respect and promote the welfare of all beings in global
and intersectional2 communities.
6.Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion: You will connect academic knowledge
to lived experience in order to identify and critique how diverse
thinkers1 contribute to knowledge in and outside academia.
1"Diverse thinkers" refers to the many dimensions of human identity and
experience as deﬁned in intersectionality, below.
2Intersectionality addresses multiple contexts, such as gender, sexuality,
race, class, culture, religion, and disability, with attention to power
structures that have privileged some identities over others.Arrupe College Policies
The Arrupe Student Academic Standards and Regulations  (p. 2278 ) is a
resource guide to help you:
•Learn about Arrupe College's innovative Associate of Arts degree
program;
•Find information about procedures that relate to academic progress
and standing; and
•Understand important policies to help you successfully complete
your degree program.
We produce this handbook so that you have the information you need
all in one place. Please review its contents carefully when referencing
policies that may affect you. If any questions arise, please reach out to
your advisor or dean(s) for clariﬁcation.
From time to time, these policies and their accompanying forms will
be updated to align with the needs of the College and its students.
All students will be held to the most current academic policies and
regulations.
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
ACACT 201   Introductory Accounting I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Co-requisites:  ACMAT 117   
The major emphasis is on the development and reporting of accounting
information for use by investors, creditors, and others. The student
is required to develop skills in the preparation and use of accounting
information and must demonstrate an understanding of the accounting
process, and be able to evaluate the impact of estimates, alternative
accounting principles, and the limitations of the accounting model on
accounting information. Topics include preparation and use of ﬁnancial
statements, the accounting process, and the measurement and reporting
of income, assets, liabilities, and owners' equity.
IAI code:  BUS 903   
Course equivalencies:  ACCT201/201H/CPST310/ACACT201   
Outcomes:
The student will be able to understand the underlying principles, design,
concepts, limitations, and the necessity of accounting systems; The
student will gain an appreciation of the uses of ﬁnancial data and
ﬁnancial statements and their impact on business decisions

--- Page 3 ---
34  Arrupe College
ACACT 202   Introductory Accounting II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ACACT 201   
This course highlights the differences between ﬁnancial accounting and
managerial accounting. The course begins by completing the study of
transactions and events affecting ﬁnancial statements. The cash flow
statement is then explored in some detail. Finally, ﬁnancial statement
analysis as traditionally practiced, is considered a capstone for ﬁnancial
accounting. The course then focuses on the use of accounting da ta by
management. Product costing in a manufacturing setting, assigning of
costs to objects, learning how costs behave, and the use of accounting
data by management in planning operations, controlling operations, and
in short term decision making are all investigated.
IAI code:  BUS 904   
Course equivalencies:  ACCT202/ACCT202H/ACACT201   
Outcomes:
The student will be able to understand the differences between cash and
accrual accounting, the use of ratio analysis in investing and managing
decisions, the value and importance of identifying and allocating costs,
and the methods involved in the budgeting process
ACBIO 101   General Biology I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Co-requisites:  ACBIO 111   
General Biology I is a 3-credit lecture course that introduces the
fundamental principles of Biology focusing the ﬁelds of cell st ructure
and function, molecular genetics, and evolution. Topics covered in
the course include introductory chemistry, cell structure and function,
cellular communication, metabolic processes, cellular reproduction,
and introductory genetics. Students will be able to demonstrate an
understanding of matter, energy, and organization in living systems.
2. Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the
biochemistry and metabolism of organisms. 3. Students will be able to
demonstrate and understand the fundamental concepts of cell str ucture,
function, and processes. 4. Students will be able to explain the major
concepts of molecular genetics, including the flow of genetic information
from DNA to RNA to proteins and how changes in genes impact cellular
function, organismal health, and evolutionary trajectories.
Course equivalencies:  ACBIO 101 / BIOL 101   
Outcomes:
1
ACBIO 102   General Biology II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ACBIO 101 and ACBIO 111 with grade of C- or better   
Co-requisites:  ACBIO 112   
General Biology II is a 3-credit lecture course that introduces the
fundamental principles of Biology focusing the ﬁelds of evolution and
evolutionary history, plant structure and function, animal form and
function. Topics covered in the course include evolutionary processes,
speciation, history of life on earth, plant biology, soils, homeostasis,
animal biology, mammalian organ systems, community ecology, and
environmental challenges as scientiﬁc and social problems. Students
will be able to demonstrate an understanding of biological evolution
and differentiate between the processes of evolution. 2. Students will
be able to demonstrate an understanding of the evolutionary history of
life on Earth. 3. Analyze the functions and interrelationships of various
organismal systems including plant structure and function, and animal
form and function. 4. Explain major concepts of ecology including
nutrient cycling, trophic levels, population dynamics, and biodiversity.
Course equivalencies:  ACBIO 102 / BIOL 102   
Outcomes:
1ACBIO 111   General Biology I Lab   (1 Credit Hour)   
Co-requisites:  ACBIO 101   
General Biology 1 Lab is a 1-credit laboratory course that introduces
students to the fundamental principles of organismal biology.
Differentiate between the major taxonomic groups. 2. Make comparisons
in cell structure and function among selected organisms. 3. Identify
characteristics of selected organisms and understand the evolutionary
and ecological relationships among taxonomic groups. 4. Demonstrate
the ability to use current research techniques and instruments to study
the diversity of organisms at the microscopic and macroscopic level.
Course equivalencies:  BIOL 111/ACBIO 111   
Outcomes:
1
ACBIO 112   General Biology II Lab   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  ACBIO 101 and ACBIO 111 with a grade of C- or better   
Co-requisites:  ACBIO 102   
General Biology lab is a 1-credit laboratory course that introduces the
fundamental principles of Biology focusing on evolutionary principles
and processes, cell structure and function, plant and animal biological
processes, and ecological principles. Differentiate between the major
taxonomic groups. 2. Make comparisons in cell structure and function
among selected organisms. 3. Identify characteristics of selected
organisms and understand the evolutionary and ecological relationships
among taxonomic groups. 4. Demonstrate the ability to use current
research techniques and instruments to study the diversity of organisms
at the microscopic and macroscopic level.
Course equivalencies:  ACBIO 112 / BIOL 112   
Outcomes:
1
ACCHM 100   Introductory Chemistry   (3 Credit Hours)   
A course emphasizing the general principles and theories of che mistry,
including fundamentals of inorganic chemistry, atomic structure and
states of matter, bonding, stoichiometry, acid-base concepts, periodicity
and solution chemistry.
Outcomes:
Understand the structure of matter and the chemical changes it
undergoes, and predict those changes based on the periodic nature of the
elements; Solve problems using chemical calculations concerning mass
or concentration; Describe strong and weak acids and bases, and carry
out related calculations; Develop the academic skills needed for future
science courses including problem-solving, taking and reviewing notes,
and multiple choice exams
ACCHM 101   General Chemistry I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ACMAT 117 (C- or higher); Corequisite: ACCHM 111   
This course focuses on building a conceptual understanding of
fundamental chemical principles. Topics include the periodic table of
the elements, atomic structure, nuclear chemistry, basic concepts of
quantum theory, bonding, stoichiometry of compounds and reactions,
thermochemistry, solutions, acids and bases, and the gaseous state.
Course equivalencies:  ACCHM / CHEM 101   
Outcomes:
Build conceptual understanding of fundamental chemical principles

--- Page 4 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 35
ACCHM 102   General Chemistry II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ACCHM 101 and ACMAT 118; Corequisite of ACCHM 112   
Topics include the basic concepts of the liquid and solid states, solutions,
reaction kinetics, equilibria, acid-base equilibria, solubility equilibria,
reaction thermodynamics, and electrochemistry.
Course equivalencies:  ACCHM / CHEM 102   
Outcomes:
Continue building on conceptual understanding of fundamental chemical
principles
ACCHM 111   General Chemistry Lab I   (1 Credit Hour)   
Co-requisites:  ACCHM 101   
This laboratory course translates theory and topics covered in the
lecture (ACCHM 101) to application. Students will be introduced to
basic chemical laboratory skills and techniques. Topics include lab
safety, measurements and calculations, basic statistics, pH and titration,
calorimetry, spectrophotometry, and a variety of chemical reactions.
Course equivalencies:  ACCHM / CHEM 111   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to apply proper lab safety and proper procedures for
handling and disposal of chemicals, demonstrate proper manipulation
of common equipment, as well as use and understand selected
instrumentation
ACCHM 112   General Chemistry Lab II   (1 Credit Hour)   
Co-requisites:  ACCHM 102   
The second semester of general chemistry laboratory exposes students
to qualitative analysis and continues the process of experimenting and
collecting data to test the validity of theories and models presented
in lecture, including the liquid and solid states, solutions, equilibrium,
acid-base equilibria, solubility equilibria, kinetics, thermodynamics, and
electrochemistry.
Course equivalencies:  ACCHM / CHEM 112   
Outcomes:
Formulate or evaluate hypotheses, plan and conduct experiments, make
systematic observations, interpret and analyze data, draw conclusions,
and communicate results
ACCOM 101   Public Speaking & Critical Thinking   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is designed to supply students with an understanding of
critical thinking practices, foundational tenets of communicati on theory,
the skills of public address and persuasion, the role of visual aids in
effective presentation, and a sense of the social responsibility that comes
with the capacity for communication.
IAI code:  C2 900   
Course equivalencies:  ACCOM 101/103 COMM 101/103   
Outcomes:
Students gain skills in public speaking, preparing a presentation,
including visual aids, and critical listening, thinking, and speaking
ACCOM 103   Business and Professional Speaking   (3 Credit Hours)   
Through theory and practice, the course will explore oral presentation
in business and professional situations, including message design and
audience analysis of organizations. Students will examine expectations
for communication in business; after studying and analyzing professional
context, students will complete three substantive presentations. Finally,
students will gain a sense of social responsibility that comes with the
capacity for communication.
Course equivalencies:  ACCOM 101/103 COMM 101/103   
Outcomes:
Students gain skills in public speaking, preparing a presentation,
including visual aids, and critical listening, thinking, and speaking with a
focus on professional environmentsACCOM 200   Communication and New Media   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores the way technology affects personal, cultural, and
mass communication through examining the historical, societal, and
ethical implications of new and interactive forms of media.
Course equivalencies:  COMM200 / IFMS200 / ACCOM 205   
Outcomes:
Students use audio, video and digital tools to research and produce
essays, projects and presentations that analyze the impact of technology
on communication
ACCOM 201   Introduction to Communication   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course gives a general and theoretical overview of communication.
By approaching communication through a critical and historical lens,
students will acquire a foundation for further study and practice in
communication.
Course equivalencies:  COMM 175 /COMM 160 /ACCOM 201   
Outcomes:
Students will have an understanding of the nature and structure of
communication and be able to critically evaluate oral and written
communications
ACCOM 274   Introduction to Cinema   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces students to cinema as an artform and a mode of
mass communication. By developing a ﬁlm vocabulary and studying ﬁlm
aesthetics, students will learn how to evaluate ﬁlm and create written
formal analyses of ﬁlm texts. Students will also consider the historical
and cultural impact of ﬁlms and begin to explore ﬁlm theory and criticism.
Course equivalencies:  ACCOM / COMM 274   
Outcomes:
Understand ﬁlm aesthetics and form; Develop basic ﬁlmic vocabulary
related to production, distribution, and analysis; Develop critical
standards for ﬁlm evaluation; Critically evaluate ﬁlms verbally and
in written form; Recognize scholarly approaches to ﬁlm studies and
criticism; Analyze ﬁlm texts considering historical and social context
ACCOMP 150   Introduction to Computing   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides a broad survey introducing the many layers of
the computer science discipline, emphasizing the computer's role
and limitations as a toll for describing, organizing, and manipulating
information applicable to many disciplines.
Course equivalencies:  ACCOMP 150/COMP 150   
Outcomes:
Binary logic expressed in electronic circuitry, machine architecture, basic
programming in Python, data organization, machine capacity, and useful
tools
ACCRJ 201   The Criminal Justice System   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides an overview of the development and operations
of the US criminal justice system. Attention will be focused on law
enforcement, judicial organization, and correctional processes. The
course will also consider the nature and extent of crime and will survey
main theories of criminal behavior.
IAI code:  CRJ 901   
Course equivalencies:  ACCRJ 201 / CJC 101   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the st ructure
and challenges facing the criminal justice system from historical,
interdisciplinary, and inter-agency relationship perspectives

--- Page 5 ---
36  Arrupe College
ACCRJ 204   Corrections   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the history, functions, and processes of
corrections. The primary focus is institutional corrections and its
evolution based on philosophies of retribution, deterrence, incapacitation,
and rehabilitation. The role and influence of community correctional
practices and policy on institutional corrections are also covered.
Course equivalencies:  ACCRJ 204 / CJC 204   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to identify and describe the role of institutional
corrections in society and the criminal justice system and articulate the
connection between theories regarding criminality and the purposes
of incarceration that have historically guided and continue to guide
American correctional practice historically and currently
ACECO 201   Microeconomics   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to demand and supply, consumer choice,
price analysis in alternative industrial organizations, and the distribution
of income.
IAI code:  S3 902   
Course equivalencies:  ECON201/201H/ACECO201/CPST243   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to think critically about price formation  in different
market structures, and how prices, household incomes and income
distribution in a diverse society are determined with interpretations
based on the concepts of opportunity costs and decision making under
uncertainty
ACECO 202   Macroeconomics   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to national product, its components, money
and the real sectors and business fluctuations.
IAI code:  S3 901   
Course equivalencies:  ECON202/ECON202H/ACECO202/245   
Outcomes:
The students will be able to think critically about the economic
environment of the nation and to measure growth, unemployment,
inflation, ﬁscal and monetary policies of the government, to ultimately
understand economic stability and the welfare of the individual citizen
ACENG 110   Interpreting Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
This is a foundational course in literary studies requiring students to read
closely and analyze carefully a representative variety of prose, poetry, and
drama, master key literary and critical term, and explore a variety of core
critical approaches to the analysis and interpretation of literature.
Course equivalencies:  ACENG 110 / UCLR 100   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the structure and techniques of different literary
forms and will be able to analyze the content of literary works with
respect to the authors' purposes and meaning
ACENG 220   Introduction to Rhetoric: Classical & Contemporary   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course emphasizes the relevance of classical disputes for
understanding current controversies over the nature and function
of discourse. We will study several deﬁnitions of rhetoric, including
rhetoric as "the art of persuasion, " as the available means of persuasion,
as identiﬁcation, and others. Enrollment Conditions: Practical tools
and theoretical methods will strengthen your skills in critical thinking,
persuasive reasoning, and logical reasoning.
Course equivalencies:  ACENG 220 / COMM 220   ACENG 271   Exploring Poetry   (3 Credit Hours)   
This class offers you the opportunity to become proﬁcient in close
reading and critical analysis of poetry with different styles, and from
several different periods.
Course equivalencies:  ENGL 271/ACENG 271   
Outcomes:
1) practicing the skill of close reading & developing annotation strategies
for literary texts, 2) mastering key literary terms and integrating them
into your own analyses of literature, 3) placing the poems we read in
conversation with their historio-political contexts, 4) using different
literary theoretical lenses to ask new questions of our texts, and 5)
articulating [explaining/stating] your interpretations: in class, on tests,
and for written assignments
ACENG 273   Exploring Fiction   (3 Credit Hours)   
Exploring Fiction focuses on reading and analysis of ﬁction, especially
short stories and novels, from a variety of periods, while examining and
applying key approaches to determining literary meaning, form and value.
Course equivalencies:  ENGL 273/ACENG 273   
Outcomes:
1) Critically analyze ﬁction, especially short stories and novels, from
a variety of periods, and apply a narrative theory approach to literary
interpretation; 2)Interpret literary texts within various contexts -
biographical, social, political, aesthetic, etc
ACENG 274   Exploring Shakespeare   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the dramatic works of Shakespeare as literature
and as theatre, covering at least three of the four genres (comedy, history,
tragedy, romance). The class experience includes attendance at and
discussion of performances of the Chicago Shakespeare Theater.
IAI code:  H3 905   
Course equivalencies:  ACENG 274 / ENGL 274   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the theatrical
works of Shakespeare, such elements of drama as plot, character, theme,
imagery, and verse forms, and the personal, political and theatrical world
in which Shakespeare lived and worked
ACENG 276   Writing the Self   (3 Credit Hours)   
In this course, we will study nonﬁction prose from a range of times and
places. To focus our studies, we will investigate how a wide variety of
authors have used writing to express, explore, and create a sense of
self. When sharing their lives with an audience of readers, how do these
authors navigate the territory between the private and public spheres,
between internal experience and external reality, between self and
environment? To answer this question, we will read a variety of nonﬁction
forms including diaries, essays, autobiographies, and graphic memoirs.
Throughout the course, we will discuss issues of literary meaning, form
and value.
IAI code:  H3 904   
Course equivalencies:  ACENG 276 / ENGL 290   
Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, students will have demonstrated inquiry
and pursue self-directed learning, mastered key literary terms, read for
comprehension, read for analysis, and argued for literary interpretation

--- Page 6 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 37
ACENG 282   African American Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the development of the African American literary
tradition, including analysis of historic and contemporary themes.
Readings may cover any time period in African American literature
through the present.
Course equivalencies:  ENGL 282 / ACENG 282   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to discuss the signiﬁcance of major African
American literary movements and the contributions of representative
writers from these periods
ACFNA 100   Art and Visual Culture   (3 Credit Hours)   
A survey of the visual arts (painting, drawing, printmaking, sculpture and
architecture) as they transmit cultural traditions and humanistic and
aesthetic values. Examines historical, social and technological factors
that contribute to understanding the function and meaning of works of
art.
IAI code:  F2 900   
Course equivalencies:  FNAR199/ICVM199/IFMS199/ACFNA1   
Outcomes:
1) Introduce students to an appreciation of the visual arts through an
inter cultural, social/historical approach; 2) Emphasize the nature of the
creative process, integrating a study of the conceptual principles, with
methods and materials which influence artistic critical thinking, problem
solving, exploration, and discovery
ACFNA 105   Western Art: Renaissance to Modern   (3 Credit Hours)   
A general survey which explores the development of art in Western
culture from the Renaissance to modern art in the twentieth century.
IAI code:  F2 901   
Course equivalencies:  ACFNA 105 / FNAR 201   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge of the ideas, formal
expressions, themes, techniques, and functions of art in relation to their
cultural, social, and historical contexts; Students acquire the skills to
critically analyze the relationships between various art forms and their
relation to historical cultures
ACFNA 112   Foundation Studio: Two Dimensional Design   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course explores the fundamental organizational systems of
intentional visual expression through purposeful making of, and critical
response to, traditional design concepts. The elements of art and the
principles of design will be experienced through a range of media both
tactile and digital, with emphasis on spatial perception, color theory,
and visual communication. Students will recognize and experience the
core concepts and practices of visual communication through hands-
on exercises and projects addressing observation and perception,
composition, transformation and manipulation of the picture plane,
sequence and narrative, and the physical and communicative properties
of pigment and color. Students will further engage these concepts
through critical examination of images, texts, and objects representing a
wide array of contemporary and historical visual culture.
IAI code:  ART 907   
Course equivalencies:  FNAR112/ACFNA112   ACHIS 101   Western Civilization to the 17th Century   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course traces the early development of Western civilization from the
ancient Near East, Greece and Rome, the medieval civilization(s), and the
European Renaissance and Reformation.
IAI code:  S2 902   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST101/CATH101/ACHIS101   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of history as a discipline, be able to
place Judaism, Christianity, and Islam in historical context, explain the
expansion of the West, and develop critical thinking and communications
skills
ACHIS 102   Western Civilization from the 17th Century   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course traces the development and of western civilization and its
global impact from the seventeenth century to the present.
IAI code:  S2 903   
Course equivalencies:  ACHIS 102 / HIST 102   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of history as a discipline and develop
critical thinking skills based on historical knowledge about th e key
people, places, and events that shaped the modern world
ACHIS 104   Introduction to Global History since 1400   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course surveys the history of the world since 1400 by introducing
students to the origins of diverse people and the intellectual, social,
political, and economic developments of their societies to the present.
Course equivalencies:  HIST / ACHIS 104   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of history as a discipline;
differentiate intellectual, social, political, and economic aspects between
and among diverse people and their societies; place contemporary global
issues within their historical contexts; and develop critical thinking and
communications skills
ACHIS 201   US History to 1865   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to the history of the United States from the
colonial era through the Civil War.
IAI code:  S2 900   
Course equivalencies:  HIST201/HIST111/ACHIS201   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of Native American
societies, the impact of European colonization, the creation and evolution
of democratic institutions in a multicultural society, the geographic
expansion of the United States, and the impact of slavery
ACHIS 202   US History since 1865   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to the history of the United States from the
Civil War to the present.
IAI code:  H2 905   
Course equivalencies:  HIST202/HIST112/ACHIS202   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of how the United States
became a modern industrial society, the emergence and evolution of the
modern welfare state, the rise of the United States as a global power, and
the impact of controversies over civil rights and liberties on American
society

--- Page 7 ---
38  Arrupe College
ACHIS 220   Introduction to Mexican American History   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course surveys of the history of Mexicans and Mexican Americans
in the United States, examining their social, political, and economic
contributions to the history of the U.S. from the 15th century to the
present.
IAI code:  S2 923D   
Outcomes:
Analyze pre-Columbian societies, European colonization, and Mexican
migration; synthesize various interpretations and sources; situate
Mexican American history past, present, and future
ACINF 247   Introduction to Information Systems   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to using information technology to support
business processes.
Course equivalencies:  INFS247/ISOM/MGSC247/ACINF247   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the purpose and composition of information
systems and develop expertise in the use information technology to
develop business spreadsheets and database applications
ACISC 101   Interdisciplinary Science: Scientiﬁc Basis of Environmental
Issues   (3 Credit Hours)   
The foundational course in science is predicated on the view that
understanding environmental issues and their underlying scientiﬁc
principles will occupy a central role in our students' lives and will be
critical in their development as informed and participating members
of society. The overarching strategy of the course will be to frame
environmental science in terms of a series of interacting systems to allow
students to analyze a variety of environmental issues.
IAI code:  LP 900   
Course equivalencies:  ENVS137/UCSF137/ENVS101   
Outcomes:
1) Exhibit knowledge of the nature of the four Earth systems; 2)
Draw inferences from evidence, constructing testable and falsiﬁable
hypotheses and analyzing data; 3) Understand the role of energy and
thermodynamics in ecosystems; 4) Understand and describe important
cycles in nature
ACISC 102   Environmental Processes, Challenges, and Methods   (4 Credit
Hours)   
This course examines scientiﬁc issues underlying a series of signiﬁcant
threats to the planet. These include the loss of biodiversity, ensuring
access to a stable supply of food and water for all of the Earth's
inhabitants, climate change, and the demands for energy and other
resources. Students will also investigate possible responses to these
planetary threats.
IAI code:  LP 901L   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the nature of contemporary environmental
challenges, both as scientiﬁc and social problems
ACISC 102L   Environmental Processes, Challenges, & Methods Lab   (1
Credit Hour)   
Co-requisites:  ACISC 102   
This course provides students with the opportunity to learn basic
and intermediate lab skills commonly used in environmental science,
including measuring properties of matter, analyzing soil, water and
atmospheric samples, as well as the mathematics needed to analy ze
data and draw inferences from evidence.
IAI code:  LP 901L   
Outcomes:
Students will master basic scientiﬁc techniques related to the study of
the environmentACMAT 100   Fundamentals of Math   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the foundations of algebra. Topics include the
real number system operations, variable expressions, linear equations
and inequalities, graphing linear equations in two variables, slope
and equations of a line, exponents and polynomials, applications of
proportion, percent and the use of formulas to develop problem solving
skills.
Course equivalencies:  ACMAT100/MATH100   
Outcomes:
Students will evaluate variable expressions; Students will solve and
graph linear equations in two variables; Students will apply ratios and
proportions
ACMAT 117   Precalculus I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  "C-" or better in ACMAT 100 or by test placement   
This course covers algebraic topics ranging from functions and their
applications to complex numbers to inverse functions to the fundamental
theorem of algebra.
Course equivalencies:  ACMAT 117/MATH 117   
Outcomes:
Students who plan to study calculus will obtain the algebraic b ackground
needed to enroll in precalculus
ACMAT 118   Precalculus II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  "C-" or better in ACMAT 117 or required score on placement
test  
This course is a continuation of MATH 117 focusing on exponential,
logarithmic, trigonometric, and inverse trigonometric functions, their
graphs, and their properties. Techniques for solving equalities involving
these functions are examined. Trigonometric identities, sum and
difference formulas, double and half-angle formulas, the Laws of Sines
and Cosines, and polar coordinates are also considered.
Course equivalencies:  MATH 118/ ACMAT 118   
Outcomes:
Students will build and improve their skills in algebra and pre-calculus
topics in order to be able solve a variety of problems; The content and
the strategies students will learn will prepare them to be successful
in Calculus and courses beyond; Students will frequently be asked to
express their mathematical thinking orally and in writing by working in
groups and explaining their work
ACMAT 161   Calculus I   (4 Credit Hours)   
A traditional introduction to differential and integral calculus. Functions,
limits, differentiation, the Intermediate Value Theorem, curve sketching,
optimization problem, related rates, deﬁnite and indeﬁnite integrals, the
Fundamental Theorem of Calculus, logarithm and exponential functions,
applications to the natural and social sciences. Restricted to Arrupe
students. Students are eligible to enroll in the course upon successful
completion of ACMAT 118 or by math placement exam.
Course equivalencies:  ACMAT 161/MATH 161   
Outcomes:
Students will obtain the background needed to enroll in Calculus II;
This course satisﬁes the quantitative literacy requirement of the core
curriculum

--- Page 8 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 39
ACMAT 162   Calculus II   (4 Credit Hours)   
This course is a continuation of ACMAT 161, Calculus I.
Course equivalencies:  ACMAT 162/MATH 162   
Outcomes:
1) Select and apply appropriate models and integration techniques
to solve problems involving algebraic and transcendental functions;
these problems will include but are not limited to applications involving
volume, arc length, surface area, force and work; 2) Recognize and
implement appropriate techniques to integrate trigonometric functions
and apply trigonometric substitutions to solve integrals; 3) Decompose a
rational integrand using partial fractions; 4) Evaluate proper and improper
integrals using various integration techniques: 5) Determine convergence
of improper integrals with discontinuities in their domain or inﬁnite limits
of integration; 6) Apply basic anti-differentiation techniques to selected
problems arising in various ﬁelds such as physical modeling, economics
and population dynamics; 7) Find general solutions to basic dif ferential
equations and analytical solutions to separable differential equations; 8)
Find solutions of various kinds of differential equations using Direction
Fields and Euler's Method; 9) Develop the algebra associated with vectors
in both two and three dimensions and deﬁne two fundamental operations
for vectors: the dot product and the cross product; 10) Develop equations
for lines and planes in space and explore their properties and uses; 11)
Apply familiar single-variable function properties (domain, graphs, limits,
continuity and derivatives) to multivariable functions; 12) Find maximum
and minimum values of multivariable functions using partial derivatives;
13) Identify the Directional Derivatives and the gradient of a multivariable
function
ACPHI 130   Philosophy and Persons   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the way philosophy looks for fundamental
characteristics that identify life as a properly human life, asks about its
ultimate meaning or purpose, and raises questions about what counts as
a good life.
IAI code:  H4 900   
Course equivalencies:  PHIL120/130/180/ACPHI130   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to explain a claim to truth, to explain theories of
value in human life, and to describe theories of the metaphysical nature
of human persons
ACPHI 205   The Person and Society   (3 Credit Hours)   
A contemporary look at the origins of social problems, democracy
movements (both domestic and international), and the role of
government in society.
IAI code:  H4 901   
Course equivalencies:  PHIL162/182/262/282/ACPHI205   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the moral bases of social activity and  have the
ability to relate individual responsibilities with life in a society
ACPHI 274   Logic   (3 Credit Hours)   
Study of the rules of judging and reasoning, both inductive and deductive,
in a traditional, language-centered context rather than a symbolic
context. Logical analysis of both formal and informal fallacies and of the
consistency and logical consequences of a given set of statements is
included. Logical analysis is applied to problems dealing with knowledge
of reality.
IAI code:  H4 906   
Course equivalencies:  PHIL 174/PHIL 274/ACPHI 274   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to formally analyze, evaluate, and demonstrate the
various aspects of argumentationACPHI 281   Ethics   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a general introduction to ethics and moral philosophy.
IAI code:  H4 904   
Course equivalencies:  PHIL 181 / PHIL 281 /ACPHI 281   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of criteria for
choosing between conflicting ethical theories, moral disagreement, the
justiﬁcation of moral judgments, and the application of ethical  standards
to practical decision-making and ethical questions that arise i n everyday
life
ACPHI 284   Society, Justice, and Health Care   (3 Credit Hours)   
A study of the role of ethics and moral reasoning in healthcare contexts.
Emphasis is placed on identifying ethical issues that arise in a variety
of contemporary healthcare settings, and in critically applying ethical
theories and concepts to respond to health care and medical issues.
Course equivalencies:  PHL184/284BIET184PHL164BIET164   
Outcomes:
Students will gain skills in ethical questioning, reasoning, and application,
with an emphasis on the intersection of healthcare practice and broader
social, political, and legal issues
ACPOL 101   American Government and Citizenship   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examine American national government and politics,
including institutions, group and electoral processes, and public policy.
An underlying theme throughout the course identiﬁes the rights and
responsibilities of citizens within the American political system.
IAI code:  S5 900   
Course equivalencies:  ACPOL 101 / PLSC 101   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the American
political system, the patterns of political participation and behavior of
diverse individuals and groups in American society, and evaluate the roles
and processes of U.S. political institutions
ACPOL 200   Introduction to Political Thought   (3 Credit Hours)   
An introduction to political thought, covering the principal ideas,
controversies and institutions of political society. Authors covered
include Plato, Machiavelli, Locke, Hobbes, and Marx.
Course equivalencies:  ACPOL 200 / PLSC 100   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of major
approaches to the normative study of politics, to identify the
assumptions underlying philosophical arguments, and to critically assess
different theories of political justice
ACPOL 202   International Relations   (3 Credit Hours)   
Competing perspectives on international politics and global issues
such as North-South relations, human rights, war and peace, population
growth, and environmentalism.
IAI code:  S5 904   
Course equivalencies:  PLSC/PAX/ACPOL102/AFR110/INTS2   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the main
approaches to the study of international politics and to analyze and
assess such major substantive issues as interstate war, terrorism, arms
control, international political economy and sustainable development
ACPOL 205   Power, Rap Music, and Urban America   (3 Credit Hours)   
By focusing on rap music and urban American society since the 1960s,
this course delves into the social scientiﬁc analysis of race, gender,
socioeconomic status, and other identities.

--- Page 9 ---
40  Arrupe College
ACPSY 201   General Psychology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Introduction to concepts, theories, and methods in psychology. Emphasis
is given to the scientiﬁc study of consciousness and human behavior.
Topics include: human development, learning, thinking, perception,
personality, testing, mental illness and mental health, biological and
social aspects of behavior.
IAI code:  S6 900   
Course equivalencies:  ACPSY 201 / PSYC 101   
Outcomes:
Students will master basic concepts and key theories and learn to apply
them to real-world situations
ACPSY 273   Developmental Psychology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Survey of theory and research relevant to human growth and
development with emphasis on physical, cognitive, and social
development from infancy through adolescence.
IAI code:  S6 902   
Course equivalencies:  ACPSY273/PSYC273   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of basic theory and research
in human development, and will develop skills in critical examination
of psychological research as applied to current issues in human
development
ACPSY 275   Social Psychology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ACPSY 201   
This course is an introduction to the ﬁeld of social psychology, which
seeks to understand human behavior by viewing it within its social and
cultural context.
Course equivalencies:  ACPSY 275 / PSYC 275   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of cultural and social
group differences, which is critical to the development of inter-cultural
understanding and the reduction of inter-group (or inter-cultural) conflict
ACPSY 280   Abnormal Psychology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ACPSY 201 General Psychology   
Nature and causes of maladjustment and mental disorders. History of
mental illness, diagnosis, research, and treatment of mental disorders.
Course equivalencies:  X-CPSY333/PSYC331/ACPSY280   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of current approaches
to researching maladaptive behavior, current views of maladaptive
behavior, major categories of mental disorders, factors contributing to
development of problems, different types of intervention strategies, and
appreciation of social, ethical, and legal issues
ACSTA 101   Statistics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  D or better in ACMAT 100 or ACSTA ready as determined by
ALEKS placement exam or standardized test score   
This course provides an introduction to statistical reasoning and
techniques in descriptive and inferential statistics and their applications
in economics, education, genetics, medicine, physics, political science,
and psychology.
IAI code:  M1 902   
Course equivalencies:  ISSCM/H/241/STAT103/ACST101/03   
Outcomes:
Students will obtain a background in the fundamentals of descriptive
and inferential statistics along with an understanding of their uses and
misusesACSTA 103   Introduction to Statistics   (4 Credit Hours)   
This course provides an introduction to statistical reasoning and
techniques in descriptive and inferential statistics and their applications.
All foundational mathematics topics necessary for college level
Statistics will be reviewed and reinforced throughout the course.
Topics will include: data collection processes (observational studies,
experimental design, sampling techniques, bias), descriptive methods
using quantitative and qualitative data, bivariate data, correlation,
least squares regression, probability theory, probability distributions
(normal distributions and normal curve, binomial distribution), conﬁdence
intervals, hypothesis tests using p-values.
Course equivalencies:  ISSCM/H/241/STAT103/ACST101/03   
Outcomes:
Students will develop the skills necessary to compute, compare and
analyze numbers; obtain a background in the fundamentals of descriptive
and inferential statistics; develop the skills necessary to analyze
graphs and data sets; develop the algebra skills necessary to calculate
descriptive statistics measurements; and explain the use of data sets and
statistics as tools to reach reasonable conclusions
ACTHE 101   Introduction to Christian Theology   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to reflection on and analysis of the
Christian theological tradition.
Course equivalencies:  ACTHE 101 / THEO 100   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the tasks of
Christian theology in its efforts to understand the human situation
from the perspective of faith, various challenges to theology in the
contemporary world, and will focus on one or more current theological
issues
ACTHE 107   Introduction to Religious Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to the contemporary ﬁeld of religious
studies.
IAI code:  H5 900   
Course equivalencies:  THEO170 / THEO270 / ACTHE 107   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze and interpret various ways in which
religious traditions intersect with contemporary issues
ACUNI 101   First Year Seminar   (1 Credit Hour)   
This course introduces students to college life, especially that of an
Arrupe student. The course focuses on Ignatian spirituality, community
building, goal setting and attainment, academic success strategies, and
task initiation.
Course equivalencies:  UNIV101 / ACUNI 101   
ACUNI 102   Academic Success Strategies   (1 Credit Hour)   
Designed to strengthen students' academic skills so that they can
become more effective learners. By completing class readings and
participating in class discussions and activities, students will learn
and practice relevant and productive study strategies. Additionally,
students will reflect on the motivations, achievements, and obstacles
they encounter while working to become more successful students.
Outcomes:
Time management, motivation maintenance, study skills, and college
resources

--- Page 10 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 41
ACUNI 103   Career Exploration and Attainment   (0 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on career exploration, development, and attainment.
Students will identify their professional aptitudes and interests, develop
their professional network, and hone their interviewing skills.
Outcomes:
1) Identify and evaluate career options based on aptitude and interests;
2) Identify and prioritize short-term and long-term steps for pursuing
one or more careers of interest; 3) Use standard resume format; select
and describe relevant educational, employment, and extracurricular
experiences to demonstrate suitability for a speciﬁc position; 4) Develop
an elevator pitch; 5) Use the STAR method to answer interview questions
(STAR = Situation; Task; Action; Result)
ACUNI 104   College Transfer Seminar   (0 Credit Hours)   
This course is designed to help prepare ﬁrst year students in identifying
appropriate transfer institutions to apply to in the following fall and
spring.
Outcomes:
Students will identify transfer institutions; understand direct and indirect
costs of attending college; prepare their transfer applications; identify
support services at the senior institution
ACUNI 201   A Journey in the Spirit of Ignatius   (1 Credit Hour)   
The purpose of the sophomore seminar is to provide students with the
opportunity to utilize Ignatian values and reflective practices to identify
their values, accomplishments and future personal, academic and or
professional goals. Restricted to Arrupe Sophomores.
Outcomes:
Students will reflect upon how Ignatian values connect to their personal
experiences and how they see themselves becoming persons for others
ACWRI 105   College Writing I   (3 Credit Hours)   
College Writing I is designed to help ﬁrst-year Arrupe students understand
and meet college expectations for writing. Students will complete
at least four polished papers during this course. Activities will also
include informal writing, invention exercises, and responding to peer
and instructor feedback. At least 60% of the ﬁnal grade will be based on
formal, graded writing assignments.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an effective process for invention, drafting,
and revision to produce polished academic work; communicate using
written modes appropriate to audience and purpose; and analyze,
synthesize, and evaluate texts
ACWRI 110   College Writing II   (3 Credit Hours)   
College Writing II is designed to help ﬁrst-year Arrupe students
understand and meet college expectations for writing. Students will
complete at least three polished papers, including a long ﬁnal paper that
requires documented, multi-source writing. Activities will also include
informal writing, invention exercises, information literacy instruction,
and responding to peer and instructor feedback. At least 60% of the ﬁnal
grade will be based on formal, graded writing assignments.
Course equivalencies:  SCPS200/ENGL106/UCWR/ACWR110   
Outcomes:
In College Writing II, students will continue to practice and strengthen
their writing process, including invention, drafting, and revision;
Additionally, students will demonstrate skills needed in the research
process, including ﬁnding, evaluating, and integrating material from
reliable sources
Business Administration (AA)
To earn an A.A. in Business administration, you must complete at least
62 credit hours and complete all the Core requirements. Additionally,you must complete Business Administration coursework, including pre-
calculus and accounting courses. This degree prepares you to study
Accounting or Business Administration at a four-year institution.
Curriculum
Required Courses for Business Administration
A.A. Business Administration 
Effective Fall 2021
Code Title Hours
A.1 GECC Core RequirementsACCOM 101Public Speaking & Critical Thinking3or ACCOM 103Business and Professional Speaking
ACECO 201 Microeconomics 13ACECO 202Macroeconomics 13
ACENG 110 Interpreting Literature 3ACFNA 105Western Art: Renaissance to Modern3or ACFNA 100Art and Visual Cultureor ACCOM 274Introduction to Cinema
ACHIS 101 Western Civilization to the 17th Century 3
or ACHIS 102 Western Civilization from the 17th Century
or ACHIS 104 Introduction to Global History since 1400ACISC 101Interdisciplinary Science: Scientiﬁc Basis of
Environmental Issues3
ACISC 102 Environmental Processes, Challenges, and
Methods4ACPHI 130Philosophy and Persons3
ACSTA 103 Introduction to Statistics 4
or ACMAT 161 Calculus IACWRI 105College Writing I3
ACWRI 110 College Writing II 3A.2 Arrupe Core RequirementsACPHI 281 Ethics 3ACTHE 101Introduction to Christian Theology3or ACTHE 107Introduction to Religious Studies
ACUNI 101 First Year Seminar 1
or ACUNI 102 Academic Success StrategiesSelect one of the following:3
ACPHI 205 The Person and SocietyACPHI 274LogicACPHI 284 Society, Justice, and Health CareA.3 ConcentrationACACT 201 Introductory Accounting I 23ACACT 202Introductory Accounting II3
ACMAT 100 Fundamentals of Math (or Elective) 3ACMAT 117Precalculus I3ACMAT 118Precalculus II3Total Hours63
1It is recommended that you do not take both ACECO 201
and  ACECO 202  at once.
2ACMAT 117  is a co-requisite for ACACT 201 , meaning that you must
take ACMAT 117  before  or at the same time  as ACACT 201 .

--- Page 11 ---
42  Liberal Arts (AA) + Bilingual/Bicultural Education (B.S.Ed.)
Learning Outcomes
1.Communication: You will communicate effectively, using written, oral,
and visual modes appropriate to your audience and purpose.
2.Quantitative Reasoning: You will understand, analyze, and evaluate
numerical data and use it to draw or evaluate conclusions.
3.Critical Thinking: You will analyze, synthesize, and evaluate diverse
information, ideas, and perspectives in a contextually appropriate
manner. You will demonstrate an awareness of your own thinking and
decision-making processes, and their importance in academic and
non-academic settings.
4.Ethical Reasoning: You will demonstrate historically grounded
awareness of ethical concepts and frameworks. You will evaluate,
articulate, and apply ethical reasoning in decision-making, showing
awareness of the intersectional2 and historical nature of the
relationships/situations being studied.
5.Social Justice: You will reflect on social, political, and historical
events, contexts, and norms that lead to injustice, and then articulate
responses that respect and promote the welfare of all beings in global
and intersectional2 communities.
6.Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion: You will connect academic knowledge
to lived experience in order to identify and critique how diverse
thinkers1 contribute to knowledge in and outside academia.
1"Diverse thinkers" refers to the many dimensions of human identity and
experience as deﬁned in intersectionality, below.
2Intersectionality addresses multiple contexts, such as gender, sexuality,
race, class, culture, religion, and disability, with attention to power
structures that have privileged some identities over others.
In the Business Administration concentration, you will:
•Develop competency and depth in understanding and interpreting the
subject matter presented in economics and accounting courses.
Liberal Arts (AA) + Bilingual/
Bicultural Education (B.S.Ed.)
Dual enrollment programs are based on agreements between Arrupe and
another Loyola college. In addition to earning an A.A. from Arrupe, you
begin taking courses at another college while still working tow ard your
A.A. After graduating with an A.A. in 2 years, you earn a bachelor’s degree
in 2-3 years from another Loyola college.
Related Programs
Major
•Liberal Arts with a Concentration in Communication (AA)  (p. 43)
•Liberal Arts with a Concentration in English (AA)  (p. 44)
Curriculum
Liberal Arts (AA) + Bilingual/Bicultural Education
(B.S.Ed.)
A.A. Liberal Arts: Pre-Education concentration
Code Title Hours
A.1 GECC Core RequirementsACCOM 101Public Speaking & Critical Thinking3or ACCOM 103Business and Professional SpeakingACFNA 105 Western Art: Renaissance to Modern 3
or ACFNA 100 Art and Visual Culture
or ACCOM 274 Introduction to CinemaACHIS 101Western Civilization to the 17th Century3
ACHIS 102 Western Civilization from the 17th Century 3ACISC 101Interdisciplinary Science: Scientiﬁc Basis of
Environmental Issues3
ACISC 102 Environmental Processes, Challenges, and
Methods4ACPHI 130Philosophy and Persons3
ACPOL 101 American Government and Citizenship 3ACSTA 103Introduction to Statistics4
ACWRI 105 College Writing I 3ACWRI 110College Writing II3
CIEP 206 Children's Literature 3A.2 Arrupe Core RequirementACPHI 205 The Person and Society 3ACPHI 281Ethics3
ACTHE 101 Introduction to Christian Theology 3
or ACTHE 107 Introduction to Religious StudiesACUNI 101First Year Seminar1or ACUNI 102Academic Success Strategies
A.3 Concentration (19 cr taken at Arrupe)TLSC 110The Profession and Our Program (TLLSC)1
TLSC 120 Bringing Language, Learning & Development
Theory into Practice2TLSC 130Sequence One: 130 Community Immersion1
TLSC 140 Teaching, Learning and Leading for Social Justice 1TLSC 150Constructive Learning Environments For Diverse
Students1
TLSC 160 Analyzing Culturally-Responsive Classroom
Instruction1TLSC 210Educational Policy For Diverse Students2
TLSC 221 Individualized Instruction and Assessment for
Diverse Learners2TLSC 222Authentic Assessment and Instruction for Bilingual
Learners2
TLSC 231 Teaching Science/Writing in Elem and Middle
Grades3TLSC 232Integrated Teaching/Learning Social Studies &
Writing in Elementary Grades3Total Hours67
Notes
•Students who pursue the Pre-Education pathway at Arrupe will earn
an A.A. in Liberal Arts
•In addition to coursework at Arrupe, they take TLSC courses through
the School of Education
•Students who successfully complete this associate's degree at
Arrupe may pursue the 2 year + 2 year degree pathway to earn
a bachelor's degree in bilingual education from the School of
Education.

--- Page 12 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 43
Learning Outcomes
1.Communication: You will communicate effectively, using written, oral,
and visual modes appropriate to your audience and purpose.
2.Quantitative Reasoning: You will understand, analyze, and evaluate
numerical data and use it to draw or evaluate conclusions.
3.Critical Thinking: You will analyze, synthesize, and evaluate diverse
information, ideas, and perspectives in a contextually appropriate
manner. You will demonstrate an awareness of your own thinking and
decision-making processes, and their importance in academic and
non-academic settings.
4.Ethical Reasoning: You will demonstrate historically grounded
awareness of ethical concepts and frameworks. You will evaluate,
articulate, and apply ethical reasoning in decision-making, showing
awareness of the intersectional2 and historical nature of the
relationships/situations being studied.
5.Social Justice: You will reflect on social, political, and historical
events, contexts, and norms that lead to injustice, and then articulate
responses that respect and promote the welfare of all beings in global
and intersectional2 communities.
6.Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion: You will connect academic knowledge
to lived experience in order to identify and critique how diverse
thinkers1 contribute to knowledge in and outside academia.
1"Diverse thinkers" refers to the many dimensions of human identity and
experience as deﬁned in intersectionality, below.
2Intersectionality addresses multiple contexts, such as gender, sexuality,
race, class, culture, religion, and disability, with attention to power
structures that have privileged some identities over others.
Liberal Arts with a Concentration in
Communication (AA)
To earn an A.A. in Liberal Arts, you must complete at least 62 credit
hours and complete all the Core requirements. In addition to completing
Core requirements, you will choose an elective concentration in
Communication.
Related Programs
Major
•Liberal Arts with a Concentration in English (AA)  (p. 44)
•Liberal Arts with a Concentration in History (AA)  (p. 45)
Curriculum
To earn an A.A. in Liberal Arts, you must complete at least 63 credit
hours and complete all the Core requirements. In addition to completing
Core requirements, you will choose an elective concentration in
Communication.
Liberal Arts Core Requirements
A.A. Liberal Arts
Code Title Hours
A.1 GECC Core RequirementsACCOM 101Public Speaking & Critical Thinking3or ACCOM 103Business and Professional Speaking
ACENG 110 Interpreting Literature 3ACFNA 105Western Art: Renaissance to Modern3or ACFNA 100Art and Visual Cultureor ACCOM 274Introduction to Cinema
ACHIS 101 Western Civilization to the 17th Century 3
or ACHIS 102 Western Civilization from the 17th Century
or ACHIS 104 Introduction to Global History since 1400ACISC 101Interdisciplinary Science: Scientiﬁc Basis of
Environmental Issues3
ACISC 102 Environmental Processes, Challenges, and
Methods4ACPHI 130Philosophy and Persons3
ACPOL 101 American Government and Citizenship 3ACSTA 103Introduction to Statistics4or ACMAT 161Calculus I
ACWRI 105 College Writing I 3ACWRI 110College Writing II3
Social and Behavioral Science Core Elective  (p. 43) 3A.2 Arrupe Core RequirementACPHI 281 Ethics 3ACTHE 101Introduction to Christian Theology3or ACTHE 107Introduction to Religious Studies
Select one of the following: 3ACPHI 205The Person and SocietyACPHI 274 LogicACPHI 284Society, Justice, and Health CareACUNI 101 First Year Seminar 1
or ACUNI 102 Academic Success StrategiesA.3 Concentration and ElectivesLBAR students can concentrate in English (2 courses), History (2
courses), Communication (2 courses), or pre-STEM (2 courses).
Remaining credit hours can be attained by completing any course
listed in the Arrupe catalog granted the student meets the cour se's
requisites.Pre-Major Requirement 13
Pre-Major Requirement 2 3Elective 13
Elective 2 3Elective 33Total Hours63
1Pre-STEM students must take Calculus I; other LBAR students choose
Statistics or Calculus I.
2Students may apply ACCOM 274 in the core OR in the pre-major; they
may not apply it in both.
Social and Behavioral Science Core Elective (A.1)
Classes listed below fulﬁll the SBSC Core Elective Requirement. Note: the
course you choose cannot count as fulﬁlling both the SBSC Core Elective
Requirement (A.1) and the Concentration and Elective requirement (A.3).
So, for instance, students concentrating in Psychology must count
ACPSY 201 General Psychology  as fulﬁlling part of their Concentration
and Elective requirement and choose a different class from this list to
fulﬁll their SBSC Core Elective Requirement.

--- Page 13 ---
44  Liberal Arts with a Concentration in English (AA)
Code Title Hours
ACECO 201 Microeconomics 3ACECO 202Macroeconomics3
ACHIS 101 Western Civilization to the 17th Century 3ACHIS 102Western Civilization from the 17th Century3
ACHIS 104 Introduction to Global History since 1400 3ACHIS 201US History to 18653
ACHIS 202 US History since 1865 3ACHIS 220Introduction to Mexican American History3
ACPOL 202 International Relations 3ACPOL 205Power, Rap Music, and Urban America3
ACPSY 201 General Psychology 3
Required Courses for this Concentration (Liberal Arts)
Liberal Arts Pre-Major Requirements
Effective Fall 2018
Code Title Hours
Select two of the following: 6ACCOM 200Communication and New MediaACCOM 201 Introduction to CommunicationACCOM 274Introduction to CinemaElective 1 3Elective 23Elective 33Total Hours15
Talk with your advisor to identify which electives are the best ﬁt for your
plan of study.
Learning Outcomes
1.Communication: You will communicate effectively, using written, oral,
and visual modes appropriate to your audience and purpose.
2.Quantitative Reasoning: You will understand, analyze, and evaluate
numerical data and use it to draw or evaluate conclusions.
3.Critical Thinking: You will analyze, synthesize, and evaluate diverse
information, ideas, and perspectives in a contextually appropriate
manner. You will demonstrate an awareness of your own thinking and
decision-making processes, and their importance in academic and
non-academic settings.
4.Ethical Reasoning: You will demonstrate historically grounded
awareness of ethical concepts and frameworks. You will evaluate,
articulate, and apply ethical reasoning in decision-making, showing
awareness of the intersectional2 and historical nature of the
relationships/situations being studied.
5.Social Justice: You will reflect on social, political, and historical
events, contexts, and norms that lead to injustice, and then articulate
responses that respect and promote the welfare of all beings in global
and intersectional2 communities.
6.Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion: You will connect academic knowledge
to lived experience in order to identify and critique how diverse
thinkers1 contribute to knowledge in and outside academia.
1"Diverse thinkers" refers to the many dimensions of human identity and
experience as deﬁned in intersectionality, below.2Intersectionality addresses multiple contexts, such as gender, sexuality,
race, class, culture, religion, and disability, with attention to power
structures that have privileged some identities over others.
In the Communication concentration, you will:
1. 
•Develop competency and depth in interpreting the themes and
content in introductory media courses.
Liberal Arts with a Concentration in
English (AA)
To earn an A.A. in Liberal Arts, you must complete at least 62 credit hours
and complete all the Core requirements. In addition to completing Core
requirements, you will choose an elective concentration in English.
Related Programs
Major
•Liberal Arts with a Concentration in Communication (AA)  (p. 43)
•Liberal Arts with a Concentration in Pre-STEM (AA)  (p. 47)
Curriculum
Liberal Arts Core Requirements
A.A. Liberal Arts
Code Title Hours
A.1 GECC Core RequirementsACCOM 101Public Speaking & Critical Thinking3or ACCOM 103Business and Professional Speaking
ACENG 110 Interpreting Literature 3ACFNA 105Western Art: Renaissance to Modern3or ACFNA 100Art and Visual Cultureor ACCOM 274Introduction to Cinema
ACHIS 101 Western Civilization to the 17th Century 3
or ACHIS 102 Western Civilization from the 17th Century
or ACHIS 104 Introduction to Global History since 1400ACISC 101Interdisciplinary Science: Scientiﬁc Basis of
Environmental Issues3
ACISC 102 Environmental Processes, Challenges, and
Methods4ACPHI 130Philosophy and Persons3
ACPOL 101 American Government and Citizenship 3ACSTA 103Introduction to Statistics 14or ACMAT 161Calculus I
ACWRI 105 College Writing I 3ACWRI 110College Writing II3
Social and Behavioral Science Core Elective  (p. 45) 3A.2 Arrupe Core RequirementACPHI 281 Ethics 3ACTHE 101Introduction to Christian Theology3or ACTHE 107Introduction to Religious Studies
ACUNI 101 First Year Seminar 1
or ACUNI 102 Academic Success Strategies

--- Page 14 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 45Select one of the following:3
ACPHI 205 The Person and SocietyACPHI 274LogicACPHI 284 Society, Justice, and Health CareA.3 Concentration and ElectivesLBAR students can concentrate in English (2 courses), History (2
courses), Communication (2 courses), or pre-STEM (2 courses).
Remaining credit hours can be attained by completing any course
listed in the Arrupe catalog granted the student meets the cour se's
requisites.Pre-Major Requirement 13
Pre-Major Requirement 2 3Elective 13
Elective 2 3Elective 33Total Hours63
1Pre-STEM students must take Calculus I; other LBAR students choose
Statistics or Calculus I.
Social and Behavioral Science Core Elective (A.1)
Classes listed below fulﬁll the SBSC Core Elective Requirement. Note: the
course you choose cannot count as fulﬁlling both the SBSC Core Elective
Requirement (A.1) and the Concentration and Elective requirement (A.3).
So, for instance, students concentrating in Psychology must count
ACPSY 201 General Psychology  as fulﬁlling part of their Concentration
and Elective requirement and choose a different class from this list to
fulﬁll their SBSC Core Elective Requirement.
Code Title Hours
ACECO 201 Microeconomics 3ACECO 202Macroeconomics3
ACHIS 101 Western Civilization to the 17th Century 3ACHIS 102Western Civilization from the 17th Century3
ACHIS 104 Introduction to Global History since 1400 3ACHIS 201US History to 18653
ACHIS 202 US History since 1865 3ACHIS 220Introduction to Mexican American History3
ACPOL 202 International Relations 3ACPOL 205Power, Rap Music, and Urban America3
ACPSY 201 General Psychology 3
Required Courses for this Concentration (Liberal Arts)
Liberal Arts Pre-Major Requirements
Code Title Hours
ACENG 200-Level Course 3ACENG 200-Level Course3
Elective 1 3Elective 23Elective 33Total Hours15
Talk with your advisor to identify which electives are the best ﬁt for your
plan of study.Learning Outcomes
1.Communication: You will communicate effectively, using written, oral,
and visual modes appropriate to your audience and purpose.
2.Quantitative Reasoning: You will understand, analyze, and evaluate
numerical data and use it to draw or evaluate conclusions.
3.Critical Thinking: You will analyze, synthesize, and evaluate diverse
information, ideas, and perspectives in a contextually appropriate
manner. You will demonstrate an awareness of your own thinking and
decision-making processes, and their importance in academic and
non-academic settings.
4.Ethical Reasoning: You will demonstrate historically grounded
awareness of ethical concepts and frameworks. You will evaluate,
articulate, and apply ethical reasoning in decision-making, showing
awareness of the intersectional2 and historical nature of the
relationships/situations being studied.
5.Social Justice: You will reflect on social, political, and historical
events, contexts, and norms that lead to injustice, and then articulate
responses that respect and promote the welfare of all beings in global
and intersectional2 communities.
6.Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion: You will connect academic knowledge
to lived experience in order to identify and critique how diverse
thinkers1 contribute to knowledge in and outside academia.
1"Diverse thinkers" refers to the many dimensions of human identity and
experience as deﬁned in intersectionality, below.
2Intersectionality addresses multiple contexts, such as gender, sexuality,
race, class, culture, religion, and disability, with attention to power
structures that have privileged some identities over others.
In the English concentration, you will:
•Explore the rich variety of literature written in different times and
places.
Liberal Arts with a Concentration in
History (AA)
To earn an A.A. in Liberal Arts, you must complete at least 62 credit hours
and complete all the Core requirements. In addition to completing Core
requirements, you will choose an elective concentration in History.
Related Programs
Major
•Liberal Arts with a Concentration in Communication (AA)  (p. 43)
•Liberal Arts with a Concentration in English (AA)  (p. 44)
Curriculum
Liberal Arts with a Concentration in History (AA)
A.A. Liberal Arts
Code Title Hours
A.1 GECC Core RequirementsACCOM 101Public Speaking & Critical Thinking3or ACCOM 103Business and Professional Speaking
ACENG 110 Interpreting Literature 3ACFNA 105Western Art: Renaissance to Modern3or ACFNA 100Art and Visual Culture

--- Page 15 ---
46  Liberal Arts with a Concentration in History (AA)or ACCOM 274Introduction to Cinema
ACHIS 101 Western Civilization to the 17th Century 3
or ACHIS 102 Western Civilization from the 17th Century
or ACHIS 104 Introduction to Global History since 1400ACISC 101Interdisciplinary Science: Scientiﬁc Basis of
Environmental Issues3
ACISC 102 Environmental Processes, Challenges, and
Methods4ACPHI 130Philosophy and Persons3
ACPOL 101 American Government and Citizenship 3ACSTA 103Introduction to Statistics 14or ACMAT 161Calculus I
ACWRI 105 College Writing I 3ACWRI 110College Writing II3
Social and Behavioral Science Core Elective  (p. 46) 3A.2 Arrupe Core RequirementACPHI 281 Ethics 3ACTHE 101Introduction to Christian Theology3or ACTHE 107Introduction to Religious Studies
ACUNI 101 First Year Seminar 1
or ACUNI 102 Academic Success StrategiesSelect one of the following:3
ACPHI 205 The Person and SocietyACPHI 274LogicACPHI 284 Society, Justice, and Health CareA.3 Concentration and ElectivesLBAR students can concentrate in English (2 courses), History (2
courses), Communication (2 courses), or pre-STEM (2 courses).
Remaining credit hours can be attained by completing any course
listed in the Arrupe catalog granted the student meets the cour se's
requisites.Pre-Major Requirement 13
Pre-Major Requirement 2 3Elective 13
Elective 2 3Elective 33Total Hours63
1Pre-STEM students must take Calculus I; other LBAR students choose
Statistics or Calculus I.
Social and Behavioral Science Core Elective (A.1)
Classes listed below fulﬁll the SBSC Core Elective Requirement. Note: the
course you choose cannot count as fulﬁlling both the SBSC Core Elective
Requirement (A.1) and the Concentration and Elective requirement (A.3).
So, for instance, students concentrating in Psychology must count
ACPSY 201 General Psychology  as fulﬁlling part of their Concentration
and Elective requirement and choose a different class from this list to
fulﬁll their SBSC Core Elective Requirement.
Code Title Hours
ACECO 201 Microeconomics 3ACECO 202Macroeconomics3
ACHIS 101 Western Civilization to the 17th Century 3ACHIS 102Western Civilization from the 17th Century3ACHIS 104 Introduction to Global History since 1400 3ACHIS 201US History to 18653
ACHIS 202 US History since 1865 3ACHIS 220Introduction to Mexican American History3
ACPOL 202 International Relations 3ACPOL 205Power, Rap Music, and Urban America3
ACPSY 201 General Psychology 3
Required Courses for this Concentration (Liberal Arts)
Liberal Arts Pre-Major Requirements
Code Title Hours
ACHIS 201 US History to 1865 3ACHIS 202US History since 18653
Elective 1 3Elective 23Elective 33Total Hours15
Talk with your advisor to identify which electives are the best ﬁt for your
plan of study.
Learning Outcomes
1.Communication: You will communicate effectively, using written, oral,
and visual modes appropriate to your audience and purpose.
2.Quantitative Reasoning: You will understand, analyze, and evaluate
numerical data and use it to draw or evaluate conclusions.
3.Critical Thinking: You will analyze, synthesize, and evaluate diverse
information, ideas, and perspectives in a contextually appropriate
manner. You will demonstrate an awareness of your own thinking and
decision-making processes, and their importance in academic and
non-academic settings.
4.Ethical Reasoning: You will demonstrate historically grounded
awareness of ethical concepts and frameworks. You will evaluate,
articulate, and apply ethical reasoning in decision-making, showing
awareness of the intersectional2 and historical nature of the
relationships/situations being studied.
5.Social Justice: You will reflect on social, political, and historical
events, contexts, and norms that lead to injustice, and then articulate
responses that respect and promote the welfare of all beings in global
and intersectional2 communities.
6.Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion: You will connect academic knowledge
to lived experience in order to identify and critique how diverse
thinkers1 contribute to knowledge in and outside academia.
1"Diverse thinkers" refers to the many dimensions of human identity and
experience as deﬁned in intersectionality, below.
2Intersectionality addresses multiple contexts, such as gender, sexuality,
race, class, culture, religion, and disability, with attention to power
structures that have privileged some identities over others.
In the History concentration, you will:
•Develop competency and depth in interpreting the themes and
content presented in western civilization and U.S. history courses.

--- Page 16 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 47
Liberal Arts with a Concentration in
Pre-STEM (AA)
To earn an A.A. in Liberal Arts, you must complete at least 62 credit hours
and complete all the Core requirements. In addition to completing Core
requirements, you will choose an elective concentration in Pre-STEM.
Related Programs
Major
•Liberal Arts with a Concentration in Communication (AA)  (p. 43)
Combined
•Liberal Arts (AA) + Bilingual/Bicultural Education (B.S.Ed.)  (p. 42)
Curriculum
Liberal Arts with a Concentration in Pre-STEM (AA)
A.A. Liberal Arts
Code Title Hours
A.1 GECC Core RequirementsACCOM 101Public Speaking & Critical Thinking3or ACCOM 103Business and Professional Speaking
ACENG 110 Interpreting Literature 3ACFNA 105Western Art: Renaissance to Modern3or ACFNA 100Art and Visual Cultureor ACCOM 274Introduction to Cinema
ACHIS 101 Western Civilization to the 17th Century 3
or ACHIS 102 Western Civilization from the 17th Century
or ACHIS 104 Introduction to Global History since 1400ACMAT 161Calculus I4or ACSTA 103Introduction to Statistics
ACPHI 130 Philosophy and Persons 3ACPOL 101American Government and Citizenship3
ACWRI 105 College Writing I 3ACWRI 110College Writing II3
Select one of the following: 7ACISC 101 
& ACISC 102Interdisciplinary Science: Scientiﬁc Basis of
Environmental Issues 
and Environmental Processes, Challenges, and
MethodsACBIO 101 
& ACCHM 101
& ACBIO 111  
& ACCHM 111General Biology I 
and General Chemistry I  
and General Biology I Lab  
and General Chemistry Lab I  2Social and Behavioral Science Core Elective  (p. 47)3
A.2 Arrupe Core RequirementACPHI 281Ethics3
ACTHE 101 Introduction to Christian Theology 3
or ACTHE 107 Introduction to Religious StudiesACUNI 101First Year Seminar1or ACUNI 102Academic Success Strategies
Select one of the following: 3ACPHI 205The Person and SocietyACPHI 274 LogicACPHI 284Society, Justice, and Health CareA.3 Concentration and ElectivesLBAR students can concentrate in English (2 courses), History (2
courses), Communication (2 courses), or pre-STEM (2 courses).
Remaining credit hours can be attained by completing any course
listed in the Arrupe catalog granted the student meets the cour se's
requisites.Pre-Major Requirement 1 3Pre-Major Requirement 23
Select one of the following: 3Elective 1ACMAT 100 Fundamentals of MathElective 23Elective 33Total Hours63
1Pre-STEM students must take Calculus I; other LBAR students choose
Statistics or Calculus I.
2Students must take ACBIO 111 and ACCHM 111 as co-requisites to
ACBIO 101 and ACCHM 101, respectively. The natural sciences core
requirement will be met as long as a student passes either ACBIO 111
or ACCHM 111.
Social and Behavioral Science Core Elective (A.1)
Classes listed below fulﬁll the SBSC Core Elective Requirement. Note: the
course you choose cannot count as fulﬁlling both the SBSC Core Elective
Requirement (A.1) and the Concentration and Elective requirement (A.3).
So, for instance, students concentrating in Psychology must count
ACPSY 201 General Psychology  as fulﬁlling part of their Concentration
and Elective requirement and choose a different class from this list to
fulﬁll their SBSC Core Elective Requirement.
Code Title Hours
ACECO 201 Microeconomics 3ACECO 202Macroeconomics3
ACHIS 101 Western Civilization to the 17th Century 3ACHIS 102Western Civilization from the 17th Century3
ACHIS 104 Introduction to Global History since 1400 3ACHIS 201US History to 18653
ACHIS 202 US History since 1865 3ACHIS 220Introduction to Mexican American History3
ACPOL 202 International Relations 3ACPOL 205Power, Rap Music, and Urban America3
ACPSY 201 General Psychology 3
Required Courses for this Concentration (Liberal Arts)
Liberal Arts Pre-Major Requirements
Code Title Hours
ACMAT 117 Precalculus I 3ACMAT 118Precalculus II3
Select one of the following: 3Elective 1ACMAT 100 Fundamentals of MathElective 23

--- Page 17 ---
48  Social and Behavioral Sciences (AA) + Nursing (BS)Elective 33Total Hours15
Talk with your advisor to identify which electives are the best ﬁt for your
plan of study.
Learning Outcomes
1.Communication: You will communicate effectively, using written, oral,
and visual modes appropriate to your audience and purpose.
2.Quantitative Reasoning: You will understand, analyze, and evaluate
numerical data and use it to draw or evaluate conclusions.
3.Critical Thinking: You will analyze, synthesize, and evaluate diverse
information, ideas, and perspectives in a contextually appropriate
manner. You will demonstrate an awareness of your own thinking and
decision-making processes, and their importance in academic and
non-academic settings.
4.Ethical Reasoning: You will demonstrate historically grounded
awareness of ethical concepts and frameworks. You will evaluate,
articulate, and apply ethical reasoning in decision-making, showing
awareness of the intersectional2 and historical nature of the
relationships/situations being studied.
5.Social Justice: You will reflect on social, political, and historical
events, contexts, and norms that lead to injustice, and then articulate
responses that respect and promote the welfare of all beings in global
and intersectional2 communities.
6.Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion: You will connect academic knowledge
to lived experience in order to identify and critique how diverse
thinkers1 contribute to knowledge in and outside academia.
1"Diverse thinkers" refers to the many dimensions of human identity and
experience as deﬁned in intersectionality, below.
2Intersectionality addresses multiple contexts, such as gender, sexuality,
race, class, culture, religion, and disability, with attention to power
structures that have privileged some identities over others.
In the Pre-STEM concentration, you will:
•Start the Calculus sequence, which sets you up for many different
pathways in higher education or careers.
Social and Behavioral Sciences (AA)
+ Nursing (BS)
Dual enrollment programs are based on agreements between Arrupe and
another Loyola college. In addition to earning an A.A. from Arrupe, you
begin taking courses at another college while still working tow ard your
A.A. After graduating with an A.A. in 2 years, you earn a bachelor’s degree
in 2-3 years from another Loyola college.
Related Programs
Major
•Social and Behavioral Sciences with a Concentration in Psychology
(AA)  (p. 51)Curriculum
Social & Behavioral Sciences: Pre-Nursing
Concentration
A.A. Social & Behavioral Sciences: Pre-Nursing Concentration
Code Title Hours
A.1 GECC Core RequirementsACWRI 105College Writing I3
ACWRI 110 College Writing II 3ACCOM 101Public Speaking & Critical Thinking3or ACCOM 103Business and Professional Speaking
ACPHI 130 Philosophy and Persons 3ACENG 110Interpreting Literature3
ACHIS 101 Western Civilization to the 17th Century 3
or ACHIS 102 Western Civilization from the 17th Century
or ACHIS 104 Introduction to Global History since 1400ACBIO 101General Biology I3
ACBIO 111 General Biology I Lab 1
or ACCHM 111 General Chemistry Lab IACCHM 101General Chemistry I3
ACSTA 103 Introduction to Statistics 4ACFNA 105Western Art: Renaissance to Modern3or ACFNA 100Art and Visual Cultureor ACCOM 274Introduction to Cinema
ACPSY 201 General Psychology 3ACPOL 101American Government and Citizenship3
A.2 Arrupe Core RequirementACTHE 101Introduction to Christian Theology3or ACTHE 107Introduction to Religious Studies
Select one of the following: 3ACPHI 205The Person and SocietyACPHI 274 LogicACPHI 284Society, Justice, and Health CareACPHI 281 Ethics 3ACUNI 101First Year Seminar1or ACUNI 102Academic Success Strategies
A.3 Concentration (6 cr taken at Arrupe)ACPSY 273Developmental Psychology3
ACPSY 275 Social Psychology 3
or ACPSY 280 Abnormal PsychologyA.3 Concentration (9 cr taken at Niehoff School of Nursing)GNUR 155 
& 155LHuman Anatomy 
and Human Anatomy Lab4GNUR 156 
& 156LHuman Physiology 
and Human Physiology Lab4GNUR 102Introduction to Professional Nursing Practice1Total Hours63
Notes:
•Students who pursue the Pre-Nursing pathway at Arrupe will earn
an A.A. in Social & Behavioral Sciences with a concentration in
Psychology. In addition to coursework at Arrupe, they take GNUR
courses through the Niehoff School of Nursing.

--- Page 18 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 49
•Students who successfully complete this associate's degree at
Arrupe may pursue the 2 year + 3 year degree pathway to earn a
bachelor's degree from the Niehoff School of Nursing.
Learning Outcomes
1.Communication: You will communicate effectively, using written, oral,
and visual modes appropriate to your audience and purpose.
2.Quantitative Reasoning: You will understand, analyze, and evaluate
numerical data and use it to draw or evaluate conclusions.
3.Critical Thinking: You will analyze, synthesize, and evaluate diverse
information, ideas, and perspectives in a contextually appropriate
manner. You will demonstrate an awareness of your own thinking and
decision-making processes, and their importance in academic and
non-academic settings.
4.Ethical Reasoning: You will demonstrate historically grounded
awareness of ethical concepts and frameworks. You will evaluate,
articulate, and apply ethical reasoning in decision-making, showing
awareness of the intersectional2 and historical nature of the
relationships/situations being studied.
5.Social Justice: You will reflect on social, political, and historical
events, contexts, and norms that lead to injustice, and then articulate
responses that respect and promote the welfare of all beings in global
and intersectional2 communities.
6.Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion: You will connect academic knowledge
to lived experience in order to identify and critique how diverse
thinkers1 contribute to knowledge in and outside academia.
1"Diverse thinkers" refers to the many dimensions of human identity and
experience as deﬁned in intersectionality, below.
2Intersectionality addresses multiple contexts, such as gender, sexuality,
race, class, culture, religion, and disability, with attention to power
structures that have privileged some identities over others.
Social and Behavioral Sciences with
a Concentration in Criminal Justice
(AA)
To earn an A.A. in Social and Behavioral Sciences, you must complete
at least 62 credit hours and complete all the Core requirements. In
addition to completing Core requirements, you will choose an elective
concentration in Criminal Justice.
Related Programs
Major
•Social and Behavioral Sciences with a Concentration in Political
Science (AA)  (p. 50)
•Social and Behavioral Sciences with a Concentration in Psychology
(AA)  (p. 51)
Curriculum
Social and Behavioral Sciences Core Requirements
A.A. Social & Behavioral Sciences 
Code Title Hours
A.1 GECC Core RequirementsACCOM 101Public Speaking & Critical Thinking3or ACCOM 103Business and Professional Speaking
ACENG 110 Interpreting Literature 3ACFNA 105Western Art: Renaissance to Modern3or ACFNA 100Art and Visual Cultureor ACCOM 274Introduction to Cinema
ACHIS 101 Western Civilization to the 17th Century 3
or ACHIS 102 Western Civilization from the 17th Century
or ACHIS 104 Introduction to Global History since 1400ACISC 101Interdisciplinary Science: Scientiﬁc Basis of
Environmental Issues3
ACISC 102 Environmental Processes, Challenges, and
Methods4ACPHI 130Philosophy and Persons3
ACPOL 101 American Government and Citizenship 3ACSTA 103Introduction to Statistics4or ACMAT 161Calculus I
ACWRI 105 College Writing I 3ACWRI 110College Writing II3
Social and Behavioral Science Core Elective  (p. 49) 3A.2 Arrupe Core RequirementACPHI 281 Ethics 3ACTHE 101Introduction to Christian Theology3or ACTHE 107Introduction to Religious Studies
ACUNI 101 First Year Seminar 1
or ACUNI 102 Academic Success StrategiesSelect one of the following:3
ACPHI 205 The Person and SocietyACPHI 274LogicACPHI 284 Society, Justice, and Health CareA.3 Concentration and ElectivesSBSC students (who are not earning a pre-Nursing concentration)
can concentrate in Political Science (2 courses), Criminal Justice
(2 courses), or Psychology (3 courses). Remaining credit hours can
be attained by completing any course listed in the Arrupe catalog
granted the student meets the course's requisites.Pre-Major Requirement 13
Pre-Major Requirement 2 3Select one of the following:3
Pre-Major Requirement 3Elective 1Select one of the following: 3Pre-Major Requirement 4Elective 2Elective 33Total Hours63
Social and Behavioral Science Core Elective (A.1)
Classes listed below fulﬁll the SBSC Core Elective Requirement. Note: the
course you choose cannot count as fulﬁlling both the SBSC Core Elective
Requirement (A.1) and the Concentration and Elective requirement (A.3).
So, for instance, students concentrating in Psychology must count
ACPSY 201 General Psychology  as fulﬁlling part of their concentration
and Elective requirement and choose a different class from this list to
fulﬁll their SBSC Core Elective Requirement.

--- Page 19 ---
50  Social and Behavioral Sciences with a Concentration in Political Science (AA)
Code Title Hours
ACECO 201 Microeconomics 3ACECO 202Macroeconomics3
ACHIS 101 Western Civilization to the 17th Century 3ACHIS 102Western Civilization from the 17th Century3
ACHIS 104 Introduction to Global History since 1400 3ACHIS 201US History to 18653
ACHIS 202 US History since 1865 3ACHIS 220Introduction to Mexican American History3
ACPOL 202 International Relations 3ACPOL 205Power, Rap Music, and Urban America3
ACPSY 201 General Psychology 3
Required Courses for this Concentration (Social and
Behavioral Sciences)
Behavioral and Social Science Pre-Major Requirements
SBSC students can choose from the three concentrations listed below.
Code Title Hours
ACCRJ 201 The Criminal Justice System 3ACCRJ 204Corrections3
Elective 1 3Elective 23Elective 33Total Hours15
Talk with your advisor to identify which electives are the best ﬁt for your
plan of study.
Learning Outcomes
1.Communication: You will communicate effectively, using written, oral,
and visual modes appropriate to your audience and purpose.
2.Quantitative Reasoning: You will understand, analyze, and evaluate
numerical data and use it to draw or evaluate conclusions.
3.Critical Thinking: You will analyze, synthesize, and evaluate diverse
information, ideas, and perspectives in a contextually appropriate
manner. You will demonstrate an awareness of your own thinking and
decision-making processes, and their importance in academic and
non-academic settings.
4.Ethical Reasoning: You will demonstrate historically grounded
awareness of ethical concepts and frameworks. You will evaluate,
articulate, and apply ethical reasoning in decision-making, showing
awareness of the intersectional2 and historical nature of the
relationships/situations being studied.
5.Social Justice: You will reflect on social, political, and historical
events, contexts, and norms that lead to injustice, and then articulate
responses that respect and promote the welfare of all beings in global
and intersectional2 communities.
6.Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion: You will connect academic knowledge
to lived experience in order to identify and critique how diverse
thinkers1 contribute to knowledge in and outside academia.
1"Diverse thinkers" refers to the many dimensions of human identity and
experience as deﬁned in intersectionality, below.2Intersectionality addresses multiple contexts, such as gender, sexuality,
race, class, culture, religion, and disability, with attention to power
structures that have privileged some identities over others.
In the Criminal Justice concentration, you will:
•Develop competency and depth in understanding and interpreting
the subject matter presented in introductory criminal justice and
corrections courses.
Social and Behavioral Sciences with
a Concentration in Political Science
(AA)
To earn an A.A. in Social and Behavioral Sciences, you must complete
at least 62 credit hours and complete all the Core requirements. In
addition to completing Core requirements, you will choose an elective
concentration in Political Science.
Related Programs
Major
•Social and Behavioral Sciences with a Concentration in Criminal
Justice (AA)  (p. 49)
•Social and Behavioral Sciences with a Concentration in Psychology
(AA)  (p. 51)
Curriculum
Social and Behavioral Sciences Core Requirements
A.A. Social & Behavioral Sciences
Code Title Hours
A.1 GECC Core RequirementsACCOM 101Public Speaking & Critical Thinking3or ACCOM 103Business and Professional Speaking
ACENG 110 Interpreting Literature 3ACFNA 105Western Art: Renaissance to Modern3or ACFNA 100Art and Visual Cultureor ACCOM 274Introduction to Cinema
ACHIS 101 Western Civilization to the 17th Century 3
or ACHIS 102 Western Civilization from the 17th Century
or ACHIS 104 Introduction to Global History since 1400ACISC 101Interdisciplinary Science: Scientiﬁc Basis of
Environmental Issues3
ACISC 102 Environmental Processes, Challenges, and
Methods4ACPHI 130Philosophy and Persons3
ACPOL 101 American Government and Citizenship 3ACSTA 103Introduction to Statistics4or ACMAT 161Calculus I
ACWRI 105 College Writing I 3ACWRI 110College Writing II3
Social and Behavioral Science Core Elective  (p. 51) 3A.2 Arrupe Core RequirementACPHI 281 Ethics 3ACTHE 101Introduction to Christian Theology3

--- Page 20 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 51or ACTHE 107Introduction to Religious Studies
ACUNI 101 First Year Seminar 1
or ACUNI 102 Academic Success StrategiesSelect one of the following:3
ACPHI 205 The Person and SocietyACPHI 274LogicACPHI 284 Society, Justice, and Health CareA.3 Concentration and ElectivesSBSC students (who are not earning a pre-Nursing concentration)
can concentrate in Political Science (2 courses), Criminal Justice
(2 courses), or Psychology (3 courses). Remaining credit hours can
be attained by completing any course listed in the Arrupe catalog
granted the student meets the course's requisites.Pre-Major Requirement 13
Pre-Major Requirement 2 3Select one of the following:3
Pre-Major Requirement 3Elective 1Select one of the following: 3Pre-Major Requirement 4Elective 2Elective 33Total Hours63
Social and Behavioral Science Core Elective (A.1)
Classes listed below fulﬁll the SBSC Core Elective Requirement. Note: the
course you choose cannot count as fulﬁlling both the SBSC Core Elective
Requirement (A.1) and the Concentration and Elective requirement (A.3).
So, for instance, students concentrating in Psychology must count
ACPSY 201 General Psychology  as fulﬁlling part of their Concentration
and Elective requirement and choose a different class from this list to
fulﬁll their SBSC Core Elective Requirement.
Code Title Hours
ACECO 201 Microeconomics 3ACECO 202Macroeconomics3
ACHIS 101 Western Civilization to the 17th Century 3ACHIS 102Western Civilization from the 17th Century3
ACHIS 104 Introduction to Global History since 1400 3ACHIS 201US History to 18653
ACHIS 202 US History since 1865 3ACHIS 220Introduction to Mexican American History3
ACPOL 202 International Relations 3ACPOL 205Power, Rap Music, and Urban America3
ACPSY 201 General Psychology 3
Required Courses for this Concentration (Social and
Behavioral Sciences)
Behavioral and Social Science Pre-Major Requirements
SBSC students can choose from the three concentrations listed below.
Code Title Hours
ACPOL 200 Introduction to Political Thought 3ACPOL 202International Relations3
Elective 1 3Elective 23Elective 33Total Hours15
Talk with your advisor to identify which electives are the best ﬁt for your
plan of study.
Learning Outcomes
1.Communication: You will communicate effectively, using written, oral,
and visual modes appropriate to your audience and purpose.
2.Quantitative Reasoning: You will understand, analyze, and evaluate
numerical data and use it to draw or evaluate conclusions.
3.Critical Thinking: You will analyze, synthesize, and evaluate diverse
information, ideas, and perspectives in a contextually appropriate
manner. You will demonstrate an awareness of your own thinking and
decision-making processes, and their importance in academic and
non-academic settings.
4.Ethical Reasoning: You will demonstrate historically grounded
awareness of ethical concepts and frameworks. You will evaluate,
articulate, and apply ethical reasoning in decision-making, showing
awareness of the intersectional2 and historical nature of the
relationships/situations being studied.
5.Social Justice: You will reflect on social, political, and historical
events, contexts, and norms that lead to injustice, and then articulate
responses that respect and promote the welfare of all beings in global
and intersectional2 communities.
6.Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion: You will connect academic knowledge
to lived experience in order to identify and critique how diverse
thinkers1 contribute to knowledge in and outside academia.
1"Diverse thinkers" refers to the many dimensions of human identity and
experience as deﬁned in intersectionality, below.
2Intersectionality addresses multiple contexts, such as gender, sexuality,
race, class, culture, religion, and disability, with attention to power
structures that have privileged some identities over others.
In the Political Science concentration, you will:
•Develop competency and depth in understanding and interpreting
the subject matter presented in introductory political science and
international relations courses.
Social and Behavioral Sciences with
a Concentration in Psychology (AA)
To earn an A.A. in Social and Behavioral Sciences, you must complete
at least 62 credit hours and complete all the Core requirements. In
addition to completing Core requirements, you will choose an elective
concentration in Psychology.
Related Programs
Major
•Social and Behavioral Sciences with a Concentration in Criminal
Justice (AA)  (p. 49)
•Social and Behavioral Sciences with a Concentration in Political
Science (AA)  (p. 50)

--- Page 21 ---
52  Social and Behavioral Sciences with a Concentration in Psychology (AA)
Combined
•Social and Behavioral Sciences (AA) + Nursing (BS)  (p. 48)
Curriculum
Social and Behavioral Sciences Core Requirements
A.A. Social & Behavioral Sciences 
Code Title Hours
A.1 GECC Core RequirementsACCOM 101Public Speaking & Critical Thinking3or ACCOM 103Business and Professional Speaking
ACENG 110 Interpreting Literature 3ACFNA 105Western Art: Renaissance to Modern3or ACFNA 100Art and Visual Cultureor ACCOM 274Introduction to Cinema
ACHIS 101 Western Civilization to the 17th Century 3
or ACHIS 102 Western Civilization from the 17th Century
or ACHIS 104 Introduction to Global History since 1400ACISC 101Interdisciplinary Science: Scientiﬁc Basis of
Environmental Issues3
ACISC 102 Environmental Processes, Challenges, and
Methods4ACPHI 130Philosophy and Persons3
ACPOL 101 American Government and Citizenship 3ACSTA 103Introduction to Statistics4or ACMAT 161Calculus I
ACWRI 105 College Writing I 3ACWRI 110College Writing II3
Social and Behavioral Science Core Elective  (p. 52) 3A.2 Arrupe Core RequirementACPHI 281 Ethics 3ACTHE 101Introduction to Christian Theology3or ACTHE 107Introduction to Religious Studies
ACUNI 101 First Year Seminar 1
or ACUNI 102 Academic Success StrategiesSelect one of the following:3
ACPHI 205 The Person and SocietyACPHI 274LogicACPHI 284 Society, Justice, and Health CareA.3 Concentration and ElectivesSBSC students (who are not earning a pre-Nursing concentration)
can concentrate in Political Science (2 courses), Criminal Justice
(2 courses), or Psychology (3 courses). Remaining credit hours can
be attained by completing any course listed in the Arrupe catalog
granted the student meets the course's requisites.Pre-Major Requirement 13
Pre-Major Requirement 2 3Select one of the following:Pre-Major Requirement 3Elective 1Select one of the following: 3Pre-Major Requirement 4Elective 2Elective 33Total Hours60
Social and Behavioral Science Core Elective (A.1)
Classes listed below fulﬁll the SBSC Core Elective Requirement. Note: the
course you choose cannot count as fulﬁlling both the SBSC Core Elective
Requirement (A.1) and the Concentration and Elective requirement (A.3).
So, for instance, students concentrating in Psychology must count
ACPSY 201 General Psychology  as fulﬁlling part of their Concentration
and Elective requirement and choose a different class from this list to
fulﬁll their SBSC Core Elective Requirement.
Code Title Hours
ACECO 201 Microeconomics 3ACECO 202Macroeconomics3
ACHIS 101 Western Civilization to the 17th Century 3ACHIS 102Western Civilization from the 17th Century3
ACHIS 104 Introduction to Global History since 1400 3ACHIS 201US History to 18653
ACHIS 202 US History since 1865 3ACHIS 220Introduction to Mexican American History3
ACPOL 202 International Relations 3ACPOL 205Power, Rap Music, and Urban America3
ACPSY 201 General Psychology 3
Required Courses for this Concentration (Social and
Behavioral Sciences)
Behavioral and Social Science Pre-Major Requirements
SBSC students can choose from the three concentrations listed below.
Effective Fall 2015
Code Title Hours
ACPSY 201 General Psychology 3ACPSY 200-Level Course3
ACPSY 200-Level Course 3Elective 13Elective 23Total Hours15
Talk with your advisor to identify which electives are the best ﬁt for your
plan of study.
Learning Outcomes
1.Communication: You will communicate effectively, using written, oral,
and visual modes appropriate to your audience and purpose.
2.Quantitative Reasoning: You will understand, analyze, and evaluate
numerical data and use it to draw or evaluate conclusions.
3.Critical Thinking: You will analyze, synthesize, and evaluate diverse
information, ideas, and perspectives in a contextually appropriate
manner. You will demonstrate an awareness of your own thinking and
decision-making processes, and their importance in academic and
non-academic settings.
4.Ethical Reasoning: You will demonstrate historically grounded
awareness of ethical concepts and frameworks. You will evaluate,
articulate, and apply ethical reasoning in decision-making, showing

--- Page 22 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 53
awareness of the intersectional2 and historical nature of the
relationships/situations being studied.
5.Social Justice: You will reflect on social, political, and historical
events, contexts, and norms that lead to injustice, and then articulate
responses that respect and promote the welfare of all beings in global
and intersectional2 communities.
6.Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion: You will connect academic knowledge
to lived experience in order to identify and critique how diverse
thinkers1 contribute to knowledge in and outside academia.
1"Diverse thinkers" refers to the many dimensions of human identity and
experience as deﬁned in intersectionality, below.
2Intersectionality addresses multiple contexts, such as gender, sexuality,
race, class, culture, religion, and disability, with attention to power
structures that have privileged some identities over others.
In the Psychology concentration, you will:
•Develop competency and depth in understanding and interpreting the
subject matter presented in your general, developmental, social, and
abnormal psychology courses.
College of Arts and Sciences
The College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) is the oldest, largest and most
academically diverse of Loyola University Chicago’s schools, colleges,
and institutes. More than 150 years since its founding, the College’s
academic departments and interdisciplinary programs and centers
span an array of intellectual pursuits, ranging from the natural and
computational sciences to the humanities, the social sciences, and the
ﬁne and performing arts.
Our students and faculty are engaged internationally at our campus
in Rome, Italy, as well as at dozens of University-sponsored study
abroad and research sites around the world. Home to the departments
that anchor the University’s Core Curriculum, the College seeks to
prepare all of Loyola’s students to think critically, to engage the world
of the 21st century at ever deepening levels, and to become caring and
compassionate individuals. Our faculty, staff, and students view service
to others not just as one option among many, but as a constitutive
dimension of their very being. In the truest sense of the Jesuit ideal, our
graduates strive to be “individuals for others. ”
For further information about the College of Arts and Sciences,
please  visit our website.  (https://luc.us3.list-manage.com/track/click/?
u=46dffeabe974efdc2b6fce2ac&id=a7649009c5&e=1cdbe2a3df )
Undergraduate Programs
•African Studies and the African Diaspora  (p. 260)
•African Studies and the African Diaspora (BA)  (p. 261)
•African Studies and the African Diaspora Minor  (p. 262)
•Anthropology  (p. 264)
•Anthropology (BA)  (p. 272)
•Anthropology (BS)  (p. 273)
•Anthropology Minor  (p. 275)
•Honors in Anthropology  (p. 275)
•Sociology-Anthropology (BA)  (p. 669)
•Asian Studies  (p. 275)
•Asian Studies Minor  (p. 277)
•Bioethics  (p. 279)•Bioethics Minor  (p. 280)
•Bioinformatics  (p. 282)
•Bioinformatics (BS)  (p. 283)
•Bioinformatics (BS/MS)  (p. 1010 )
•Bioinformatics Minor  (p. 286)
•Biology/Bioinformatics (BS/MS)  (p. 1026 )
•Honors in Bioinformatics  (p. 287)
•Biology  (p. 287)
•Biology (BS)  (p. 299)
•Biology/Bioinformatics (BS/MS)  (p. 1026 )
•Biology/Business (BS/MBA)  (p. 1015 )
•Biology Minor  (p. 302)
•Biology/Secondary Education (BS/MEd)  (p. 1020 )
•Biology with Ecology Emphasis (BS)  (p. 304)
•Biology with Molecular Biology Emphasis (BS)  (p. 308)
•Biostatistics Minor  (p. 310)
•Catholic Studies  (p. 311)
•Catholic Studies Minor  (p. 315)
•Chemistry and Biochemistry  (p. 317)
•Biochemistry (BA)  (p. 323)
•Biochemistry (BS)  (p. 325)
•Biochemistry (BS/MS)  (p. 1006 )
•Chemistry (BA)  (p. 328)
•Chemistry (BS)  (p. 330)
•Chemistry (BS/MS)  (p. 1053 )
•Chemistry Minor  (p. 332)
•Classical Studies  (p. 333)
•Ancient Greek (BA)  (p. 345)
•Ancient Greek Minor  (p. 346)
•Classical Civilization (BA)  (p. 346)
•Classical Civilization Minor  (p. 347)
•Classics Degree-Distinction (-BAC/-BSC)  (p. 348)
•Latin (BA)  (p. 348)
•Latin Minor  (p. 349)
•Computer Science  (p. 350)
•Artiﬁcial Intelligence Minor  (p. 359)
•Computer Crime and Forensics Minor  (p. 374)
•Computer Science (BS)  (p. 360)
•Computer Science (BS/MS)  (p. 1068 )
•Computer Science Minor  (p. 362)
•Cybersecurity (BS)  (p. 363)
•Departmental Honors  (p. 365)
•Information Technology/Computer Science (BA/MS)  (p. 1259 )
•Information Technology (BS)  (p. 365)
•Information Technology (BA/MS)  (p. 1251 )
•Information Technology (BS/MS)  (p. 1254 )
•Information Technology Minor  (p. 367)
•Physics with Computer Science (BS)  (p. 621)
•Software Engineering (BS)  (p. 368)
•Software Engineering (BS/MS)  (p. 1368 )
•Criminal Justice and Criminology  (p. 370)
•Computer Crime and Forensics Minor  (p. 374)
•Criminal Justice and Criminology (BS)  (p. 375)

--- Page 23 ---
54  College of Arts and Sciences
•Criminal Justice and Criminology (BS/MA)  (p. 1072 )
•Criminal Justice and Criminology/International Affairs (BS/MA)
(p. 1075 )
•Criminal Justice and Criminology Minor  (p. 376)
•Data Science  (p. 377)
•Data Science (BS)  (p. 378)
•Data Science (BS/MS)  (p. 1080 )
•Data Science/Applied Statistics (BS/MS)  (p. 1083 )
•Data Science/Mathematics (BS/MS)  (p. 1086 )
•Data Science Minor  (p. 379)
•Economics  (p. 380)
•Economics (BA)  (p. 382)
•Engineering  (p. 383)
•Engineering with a Biomedical Engineering Specialization (BS)
(p. 387)
•Engineering with a Computer Engineering Specialization (BS)
(p. 389)
•Engineering with an Environmental Engineering Specialization
(BS)  (p. 391)
•English  (p. 393)
•English (BA)  (p. 404)
•English (BA/BSED)  (p. 406)
•English (BA/MA)  (p. 1095 )
•English Honors  (p. 407)
•English Minor  (p. 408)
•English with a Creative Writing Concentration (BA)  (p. 408)
•Shakespeare Studies Minor  (p. 464)
•European Studies  (p. 410)
•European Studies Minor  (p. 410)
•Fine and Performing Arts  (p. 414)
•Art History (BA)  (p. 441)
•Art History Minor  (p. 443)
•Dance (BA)  (p. 444)
•Dance Minor  (p. 446)
•Drawing, Painting and Printmaking (BA)  (p. 446)
•Drawing, Painting and Printmaking Minor  (p. 448)
•Music (BA)  (p. 449)
•Music Minor  (p. 450)
•Music with a Concentration in Jazz Studies (BA)  (p. 452)
•Music with a Concentration in Liturgical Music (BA)  (p. 453)
•Music with a Concentration in Vocal Performance (BA)  (p. 454)
•Musical Theatre Minor  (p. 456)
•Photography and Video Art (BA)  (p. 459)
•Photography and Video Art Minor  (p. 460)
•Sculpture and Ceramics (BA)  (p. 461)
•Sculpture and Ceramics Minor  (p. 462)
•Shakespeare Studies Minor  (p. 464)
•Studio Art Minor  (p. 465)
•Teaching Artist Minor  (p. 466)
•Theatre (BA)  (p. 467)
•Theatre Minor  (p. 469)
•Visual Communication (BA)  (p. 470)
•Visual Communication Minor  (p. 471)
•Forensic Science  (p. 472)•Forensic Science (BS)  (p. 474)
•Global Studies  (p. 476)
•Global Studies (BA)  (p. 478)
•Global Studies/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1219 )
•Global Studies Minor  (p. 482)
•History  (p. 486)
•History (BA)  (p. 503)
•History (BA/MA)  (p. 1240 )
•History/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1245 )
•History Minor  (p. 506)
•Honors in History  (p. 507)
•Human Services  (p. 510)
•Human Services (BS)  (p. 510)
•Interdisciplinary Honors Program  (p. 512)
•Interreligious and Interfaith  (p. 518)
•Interreligious and Interfaith Studies Minor  (p. 518)
•Latin American and Latino Studies  (p. 518)
•Latin American and Latino Studies Minor  (p. 519)
•Mathematics and Statistics  (p. 520)
•Actuarial Science Minor  (p. 530)
•Applied Mathematics (BS)  (p. 530)
•Biostatistics Minor  (p. 310)
•Data Science/Applied Statistics (BS/MS)  (p. 1083 )
•Data Science/Mathematics (BS/MS)  (p. 1086 )
•Mathematics (BS)  (p. 532)
•Mathematics (BS/MS)  (p. 1275 )
•Mathematics/Applied Statistics (BS/MS)  (p. 1279 )
•Mathematics - Education Track (BS)  (p. 533)
•Mathematics - Education Track/Applied Statistics (BS/MS)
(p. 1287 )
•Mathematics - Education Track/Mathematics (BS/MS)  (p. 1290 )
•Mathematics and Computer Science (BS)  (p. 534)
•Mathematics and Computer Science/Applied Statistics (BS/MS)
(p. 1282 )
•Mathematics and Computer Science/Mathematics (BS/MS)
(p. 1284 )
•Mathematics Minor  (p. 535)
•Statistics (BS)  (p. 535)
•Statistics/Applied Statistics (BS/MS)  (p. 1378 )
•Statistics/Mathematics (BS/MS)  (p. 1381 )
•Statistics Minor  (p. 537)
•Theoretical Physics and Applied Mathematics (BS)  (p. 537)
•Theoretical Physics and Applied Mathematics/Applied Statistics
(BS/MS)  (p. 1393 )
•Theoretical Physics and Applied Mathematics/Mathematics (BS/
MS) (p. 1396 )
•Medieval Studies  (p. 539)
•Medieval Studies Minor  (p. 539)
•Middle East and Islamic World Studies  (p. 540)
•Middle East and Islamic World Studies Minor  (p. 541)
•Military Science  (p. 542)
•Modern Languages and Literatures  (p. 544)
•Arabic Language and Culture Minor  (p. 566)
•Asian Language and Literatures Minor  (p. 567)

--- Page 24 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 55
•Chinese Language and Culture Minor  (p. 568)
•French (BA)  (p. 570)
•French Language and Literature Minor  (p. 571)
•French Language Minor  (p. 571)
•German Studies Minor  (p. 572)
•Hispanic Studies (BA/MA)  (p. 1237 )
•Italian (BA)  (p. 575)
•Italian American Studies Minor  (p. 576)
•Italian Language and Literature Minor  (p. 577)
•Italian Language Minor  (p. 577)
•Italian Studies (BA)  (p. 578)
•Japanese Language and Culture Minor  (p. 580)
•Literature in Translation Minor  (p. 581)
•Spanish (BA)  (p. 582)
•Spanish Language and Literature Minor  (p. 583)
•Spanish Language Minor  (p. 584)
•Neuroscience  (p. 585)
•Cognitive and Behavioral Neuroscience (BS)  (p. 586)
•Molecular and Cellular Neuroscience (BS)  (p. 589)
•Neuroscience Minor  (p. 592)
•Peace, Justice and Conflict Studies  (p. 594)
•Peace, Justice and Conflict Studies Minor  (p. 594)
•Philosophy  (p. 595)
•Ethics and Moral Philosophy Minor  (p. 603)
•Honors in Philosophy  (p. 604)
•Philosophy (BA)  (p. 605)
•Philosophy (BA/MA)  (p. 1303 )
•Philosophy/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1306 )
•Philosophy Minor  (p. 609)
•Physics  (p. 610)
•Biophysics (BS)  (p. 615)
•Physics (BS)  (p. 617)
•Physics (BS) + Engineering (BS)  (p. 619)
•Physics Minor  (p. 620)
•Physics/Secondary Education (BS/MEd)  (p. 1310 )
•Physics with Computer Science (BS)  (p. 621)
•Theoretical Physics and Applied Mathematics (BS)  (p. 537)
•Theoretical Physics and Applied Mathematics/Applied Statistics
(BS/MS)  (p. 1393 )
•Theoretical Physics and Applied Mathematics/Mathematics (BS/
MS) (p. 1396 )
•Polish Studies  (p. 623)
•Polish Studies Minor  (p. 625)
•Political Science  (p. 626)
•Honors in Political Science  (p. 636)
•Law and Politics Minor  (p. 637)
•Political Science (BA)  (p. 638)
•Political Science (BA/MA)  (p. 1313 )
•Political Science Minor  (p. 640)
•International Affairs Accelerated Bachelor's Master's Programs
(p. 642)
•Psychology  (p. 642)
•Honors in Psychology  (p. 649)
•Psychology (BS)  (p. 650)•Psychology/Applied Social Psychology (BS/MA)  (p. 1324 )
•Psychology/International Affairs (BS/MA)  (p. 1327 )
•Psychology Minor  (p. 653)
•Psychology of Crime and Justice  (p. 653)
•Psychology of Crime and Justice Minor  (p. 654)
•Race & Ethnicity  (p. 655)
•Race & Ethnicity Interdisciplinary Minor  (p. 655)
•Sociolegal Studies  (p. 656)
•Sociolegal Studies Minor  (p. 656)
•Sociology  (p. 657)
•Honors in Sociology or Sociology/Anthropology  (p. 665)
•Sociology (BA)  (p. 665)
•Sociology (BA/MA)  (p. 1361 )
•Sociology/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1364 )
•Sociology Minor  (p. 668)
•Sociology-Anthropology (BA)  (p. 669)
•Theology  (p. 670)
•Honors/Distinction in Theology  (p. 676)
•Pastoral Leadership Minor  (p. 677)
•Religious Studies (BA)  (p. 678)
•Religious Studies Minor  (p. 681)
•Theology (BA)  (p. 682)
•Theology (BA/MA)  (p. 1384 )
•Theology/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1388 )
•Theology Minor  (p. 685)
•Urban Studies  (p. 686)
•Urban Studies Minor  (p. 687)
•Urban Studies Sustainability Minor  (p. 688)
•Women's Studies and Gender Studies  (p. 690)
•Women's Studies and Gender Studies (BA)  (p. 692)
•Women's Studies and Gender Studies Minor  (p. 694)
College and Arts and Sciences Policies
Double-Dipping Policy
Academic Council Double-Dipping Policy
1.Students may not major and minor in the same discipline.
2.Majors: No fewer than 21 credit hours in the individual student’s
transcript must be unique to each major ; that is, the courses in
question are considered as actually fulﬁlling requirements of one
major, not of more than one major.
3.Minors and interdisciplinary minors: no fewer than 8 credit hours
in the individual student’s transcript must be unique to each minor ;
that is, the courses in question are considered as actually fulﬁlling
requirements of one minor, not of more than one minor or major.
4.Departments and Programs may enforce stricter double-dipping
policies than those stated above. Any such policies are listed on the
department or program website. 
Adopted: 04/20/16 (CAS Academic Council); Received 08/22/16 (CAS
Leadership Council)
Academic Integrity Statement
College of Arts & Sciences Statement on Academic Integrity
The College of Arts & Sciences adhere's to the University's Standards &
Regulations regarding Academic Integrity  (p. 2283 ).

--- Page 25 ---
56  College of Arts and Sciences
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
African Studies and the African Diaspora
(AFR)
AFR 102   Introduction to Black World Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
Introduction to Black World Studies examines several cultures within
the Black world, across various countries and regions around the globe.
Students will be familiarized with the impact of tradition, religion,
oppression, popular culture, art, memory and speciﬁc aspects of trans-
generational practices on these cultures as well as the influences of
colonialism upon African peoples and the latter upon the former.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora   
AFR 295   Directed Readings in Black World Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course allows students to engage in a directed self-study of a topic
in the realm of African Studies and the African Diaspora that is not
covered in other courses offered in the program. Students will work with
the AFR Director or another advisor to develop their own class readings
and research assignment. Director approval is required for this course.
AFR 397   Capstone/Internship   (3 Credit Hours)   
This capstone course may be completed in a variety of ways. This
includes an internship at a business or organization that is related to the
program, or a study abroad semester related to the program. Internships
require a minimum of 10 hours/week veriﬁed service hours over the 15
week semester, amounting to 3 credit hours. Students may also make a
300 level AFR course into a "Capstone" by adding an additional, in-depth
research assignment approved by the course instructor and the program
director. Director approval is required for this course.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
American Sign Language (ASL)
ASL 101   American Sign Language I   (3 Credit Hours)   
ASL 101 is the ﬁrst class in the American Sign Language series at Loyola.
It presents the basic skills and use of ASL and basic knowledge of Deaf &
Hard of Hearing Culture.
Outcomes:
Students will: 1) demonstrate the basic abilities to comprehend and
communicate in ASL; 2) demonstrate an understanding of Deaf & H ard of
Hearing communities
ASL 102   American Sign Language II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ASL 101 or equivalent   
This course is designed for students who have completed a college level
ASL I course and have a basic knowledge of ASL. It is the second course
in the ASL series at Loyola and presents intermediate skills and use of
ASL and continued working knowledge of Deaf & Hard of Hearing culture.
Outcomes:
Students will: 1) demonstrate abilities to comprehend and communicate
in ASL at an intermediate level; 2) demonstrate an understanding of Deaf
& Hard of Hearing communitiesASL 103   American Sign Language III   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of ASL 102, or prior to enrolling in ASL 103,
students must consult ASL professors for language placement, ensuring
readiness based on prior experience   
This course includes vocabulary-building and mastery of grammar
through rigorous receptive and expressive activities. ASL skills
development applied to complex grammatical structures. Topics include
location and description of items in rooms and buildings, complaints,
making suggestions, and making requests. Depicting /Indicating verb
grammatical structures introduced. Discussions of Deaf culture. 2)
Acquire adequate speed in expressive and receptive signing skills. 3)
Expand sign terminology in areas such as classiﬁers, sentence types,
numbers, NMS
Outcomes:
1) Demonstrate fluency in expressive, receptive ﬁngerspelling/numbering
in ASL
ASL 104   American Sign Language IV   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of ASL 103, or prior to enrolling in ASL 104,
students must consult ASL professors for language placement, ensuring
readiness based on prior experience   
This intermediate ASL course reﬁnes students¿ expressive and
receptive skills. Advanced linguistic structures introduced and put into
practice. Vocabulary-building in speciﬁc challenging areas: academics,
occupations, computer technologies, and abstract nouns. Current events
discussed in ASL, giving students opportunities to apply linguistic-
cultural knowledge while participating in open discussions. 2) Narrate
and describe events in connected, paragraph-length ASL discourse. 3)
Exchange information and perspectives in group settings at intermediate
level.
Outcomes:
1) Comprehension and expression with intermediate ASL vocabulary and
correct grammar
Anthropology (ANTH)
ANTH 100   Globalization and Local Cultures   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines anthropological approaches to social and cultural
changes associated with globalization, particularly how global patterns of
inequality profoundly impact people's lives.
Knowledge Area:  Foundational Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Asian
Studies, Global Studies, Human Services, International Business   
Course equivalencies:  ANTH100/271/INTS271   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of relationships between
historic and contemporary global processes, especially ways
globalization influences inequality and peoples' social, symbolic, material,
political, and economic existence

--- Page 26 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 57
ANTH 101   Human Origins   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 101 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course focuses on the biocultural evolution of our species, Homo
sapiens. It addresses the basic human desire for self-understanding.
We explore what it means to be human through the use of genetics,
non-human primates, and the fossil record. Each section of the course
contributes to an overall understanding of human origins and the process
of evolution.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Scientiﬁc Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Outcomes:
By the end of the semester students will have a better understanding
of human nature, our relationship to the world around us, and our
interactions with each other
ANTH 102   Culture, Society, and Diversity   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100, PLSC 102, PSYC 100, SOCL 101, WSGS 101, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course introduces the anthropological study of living people, or
cultural anthropology, with particular focus on how people understand,
act in, and transform their worlds. Students will also consider how
anthropology can help us think about our own society and what it means
to be human in different times and places.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services, International Business   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate ways that central concepts of
cultural anthropology help us understand cultural diversity; learn how to
think critically about various cultures (including their own); and be aware
of the ethical dimensions of research with living people
ANTH 103   Biological Background Human Social Behavior   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 101 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course examines possible biological bases of modern human
behavior, from a scientiﬁc and multi-disciplinary perspective, to explore
questions regarding what comprises "human nature".
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Scientiﬁc Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of how science is
conducted, as well as interactions between science and culture, in the
context of how evolutionary approaches to animal behavior may be
applied to the study of human behavior
ANTH 104   The Human Ecological Footprint   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 101 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course is an introduction to global human ecology and concentrates
on how we as humans affect global ecosystems and how these changes
can impact our behavior, health, economics, and politics.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Scientiﬁc Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics, Global Studies, Peace, Justice, and
Conflict Studies, Urban Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH104ESP104PAX104INTS102   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to draw connections between basic ecological
processes and the global patterns of human population growth, health
and disease, inequality and poverty, subsistence strategies, and land use
and technologyANTH 105   Human Biocultural Diversity   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 101 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course examines human variation through a biocultural approach,
with speciﬁc attention paid to historical and contemporary ideas of
race.We explore genetics and how evolution by natural selection has
favored important adaptations, how those speciﬁc adaptations have
helped humans migrate and survive across the planet's habitats, and
socio-cultural and scientiﬁc ideas about race that have resulted in
inequalities.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Scientiﬁc Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora,
Bioethics, Neuroscience, Race and Ethnicity   
Course equivalencies:  X-BIET 105/ANTH 105   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of how biocultural approaches
help us understand human variation, with speciﬁc attention paid to skin
color and the idea of race; Students will learn how scientiﬁc racism in
anthropology contributed to our ideas of race, and how that can be seen
in contemporary US society
ANTH 106   Sex, Science and Anthropological Inquiry   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 101 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course examines sex utilizing a scientiﬁc and anthropological
lens. Anthropology brings a unique perspective to the study of sex by
examining it across cultures and through an evolutionary perspective.
In this class, we will travel around the world and through deep time to
examine how sex is shaped by biological, cultural, and political factors.
Topics include sex, sexuality, sexual orientation, gender, evolution,
reproductive biology, parenting, sex work, and sexually transmitted
infections.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Scientiﬁc Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics, Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH 106/WOST 106/WSGS106   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the intersection
of sexology and anthropology, an evolutionary perspective on sex,
the physiological and anatomical aspects of male and female sexual
systems, a comparative view of human sexuality across the life course,
and how globalization is influencing sex and gender
ANTH 107   Ancient Worlds   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  HIST 101, HIST 102, HIST 103, HIST 104, or equivalent;
please check requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course explores societies in the near and distant past, with an
emphasis on examining cultures left out of standard US and world history
textbooks.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Historical Knowledge   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to: 1) describe the early history and scientiﬁc
foundations of archaeology; 2) explain important developments in human
history; 3) apply their knowledge to decolonize world history

--- Page 27 ---
58  College of Arts and Sciences
ANTH 203   Violence, Social Suffering, and Justice   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100, PLSC 102, PSYC 100, SOCL 101, WSGS 101, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This class investigates violence, suffering and justice through an
ethnographic and cross-cultural perspective. It asks, how are overt forms
of violence related to larger social structures which produce less visible
forms of suffering? How are violence and suffering related to other socio-
cultural phenomena such as race, gender, sexuality and identity?
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Peace, Justice, and Conflict
Studies, Race and Ethnicity, Women & Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will understand: the ethnographic analysis of violence and
social suffering; political and economic contexts of violence, including
colonialism, globalization, racism, and poverty; movements for justice
and safety
ANTH 205   Gender in Cross-Cultural Perspective   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores a broad range of cultural expectations for gender
diversity and the experiences of women in different cultures.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH205/WOST205/WSGS205   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of how categories
and concepts of sex and gender are culturally constructed and reflect
wide variation both historically and cross-culturally
ANTH 207   Economies, Culture, and Development   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100 or ANTH 102   
The course explores different types of and ideas about exchange,
economies, and development in cross-cultural perspective and through
ethnography.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Outcomes:
The course will help students learn about (1) the development of social
thought about non-Western economic activity; (2) the key theories
from and debates within Economic Anthropology; (3) contemporary
ethnography about economies and development; and (4) ways to think
critically about and apply course concepts
ANTH 208   Language and Identity   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100, PLSC 102, PSYC 100, SOCL 101, WSGS 101, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course will examine how language both reflects and helps
constitute identity in social and linguistic interaction. Presenting a broad
introduction, this course will address complex and often intersecting
relationships between language and gender, race, class, place, age, and
social practice, using case studies from around the world.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Race and Ethnicity   
Outcomes:
Students will learn how language is central to the expression and
interpretation of social and cultural identities, and to human experiences
of diversityANTH 210   Visual Representation of Culture   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course deals with how human cultural identities are represented
through the construction of both moving and static visual images.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH210/IFMS210   
Outcomes:
Students will gain critical skills resulting in greater visual literacy
regarding how constructed visual images are used to represent cultures
ANTH 211   Peoples of Latin America   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course offers an anthropological overview of the major cultures and
cultural regions of contemporary Latin America.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Global
Studies, Latin American Studies, Race and Ethnicity   
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH211/INTS211/LASP211   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the basic cultural processes that led to
the formation of the socio-political landscape of contemporary Latin
American
ANTH 212   Peoples of Native North America   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course considers post-contact ethnography including key
contemporary issues among indigenous North American peoples
including Indian-white relations, assimilation, genocide, revitalization
movements, sovereignty, environmentalism, urbanization, and native
identity.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to describe the pattern and basis of cultural
diversity among native North American peoples and their historical
relationships with Euro-American colonists
ANTH 213   Culture in Africa   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course takes an interdisciplinary perspective, and includes
discussion of African history, political economy, and contemporary forms
of social life and culture. It also examines intellectual and historical
trajectories informing how knowledge about Africa was and is produced.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Global
Studies, Race and Ethnicity   
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH213/BWS 213/INTS214   
Outcomes:
Students will acquire a comprehensive grasp of signiﬁcant issues in
contemporary Africa, their historical relevance, and social and cultural
impacts
ANTH 214   African-American Anthropology   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course offers an historical and contemporary exploration of various
efforts undertaken by African Americans and their supporters to achieve
racial parity, social justice and equality with other Americans, from the
early presence of Africans in the Americas to the present period.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora   
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH214/BWS 214   
Outcomes:
Students will understand landmark legal cases brought to US courts
of law by African Americans and their supporters and strengthen their
critical thinking and writing skills on these and related topics

--- Page 28 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 59
ANTH 215   Contemporary Japanese Culture   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course critically evaluates popular and scholarly characterizations
and theories about Japan through investigation of ethnicity, gender
roles, language, demographic change, and the impact and role of popular
culture.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies, Japanese Language
and Culture   
Course equivalencies:  ANTH215ASIA361INTS215ASIA215   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an awareness of how Japanese
values and behavior are influenced by culture and history, an
understanding of the relationships among cultural, economic, and social
forces, and of contemporary social diversity
ANTH 216   Cultures of Migration   (3 Credit Hours)   
Using theoretical, ethnographic, and autobiographical literature from
different world regions, we will explore three central questions: 1) How do
people make the decision to move? 2) How do political policies structure
the life chances of im/migrants in the "global north"? 3) How do im/
migrants transform their own life situations and communities?
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Italian American Studies, Latin
American Studies, Race and Ethnicity   
Outcomes:
Students will understand: an anthropological approach to the study
of migration; leading theories of migration; contemporary migration
patterns; im/migrant labor; factors that shape the formation of im/
migrant communities
ANTH 217   Mexican Culture & Heritage   (3 Credit Hours)   
In this class, students become familiar with Mexico and its people as we
explore Mexican history, contemporary Mexico, and Mexican migration
to the United States. At each juncture, we consider how sociocultural
developments shaped Mexican society in the context of the region and
the world.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Latin American Studies, Race and
Ethnicity   
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH217/INTS217/LASP217   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to explain concepts such as colonialism,
neocolonialism, globalization, and migration through their application to
Mexican culture and history
ANTH 220   Contemporary Cultures of the Middle East   (3 Credit Hours)   
Focusing on the culturally diverse region of the Middle East, the course
considers historical dynamics, diversity of religious orientations, gender
and ethics relations, nation-building strategies, and expressive arts
(architecture, ﬁlm, literature and media), from the Middle East.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Arabic Language and Culture, Global Studies,
Islamic World Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH220/IWS220/INTS222   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the hi story,
geography, religious, cultural and ethnic diversity of the Middle East as
well as the major ethnographic themes and scholarly debates concerning
the areaANTH 222   Culture in Contemporary Europe   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores culture in contemporary Europe from an
ethnographic perspective. Topics include recent developments in
European nationalisms; the EU and Europeanization; (im)migration and
integration; family and gender; production and branding; international
tourism; and the politics of language in both 'old' and 'new' Europe.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies, European
Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the role of culture in European current events,
appreciate the challenges facing the European Union, and articulate
connections between European history and contemporary European and
global politics
ANTH 224   Social Movements, Culture, and Activism   (3 Credit Hours)   
This class examines social movements and activism from an
ethnographic perspective. Case studies will examine movements across
the globe. Topics to analyze include: what socio-cultural contexts shape,
and are shaped by, social movements? How do social movements
organize themselves, and what meanings or belief systems do they
appeal to?
Outcomes:
familiarizing students with the ethnographic analysis of social
movements; analyzing the socio-cultural effects of global commodity
flows, secularization, environmental pollution, corporate power, migration
and other political issues; examining how people resist, reproduce and
alter relations of power; and introducing students to the broader ﬁeld of
political anthropology
ANTH 225   Museum Cultures   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores the museum as a dynamic site of cultural
production and consumption. It examines the historical and
contemporary relationships between museums, anthropology, and
material culture, particularly the broader socio-cultural context of
collecting from and representing cultures. Students will visit, discuss, and
critique exhibitions in Chicago-based museums.
Outcomes:
Students will gain knowledge of museums as sites of anthropological
study and practice, particularly the formation, history, and use of
anthropological collections, and cultural representations
ANTH 231   Linguistic Anthropology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100 or ANTH 102   
This course introduces the subﬁeld of linguistic anthropology through a
survey of topics, including linguistic relativity, linguistic patterning and
structure, nonverbal communication, indexicality, and linguistic diversity
and inequality.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of the historical, scientiﬁc,
methodological, and analytical foundations of linguistic anthropology
ANTH 241   Principles of Archaeology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 101 or ANTH 104   
Introduction to the ethical principles and scientiﬁc methods used to
investigate the archaeological record, including issues of stewardship,
community collaboration, research design, ﬁeldwork strategies, materials
analysis, and archaeological interpretation.
Outcomes:
Students will able to explain the basic methods and theory of the
archaeological process; Students will also be to apply their knowledge to
craft an archaeological research design

--- Page 29 ---
60  College of Arts and Sciences
ANTH 242   Mesoamerican Archaeology and Survivance   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores the cultures and peoples of Mesoamerica (Mexico,
Guatemala, Belize, Honduras, El Salvador) in long-term perspective, with
emphasis on Indigenous survivance and heritage. Cultures examined
include the Mayas, Olmecs, Teotihuacanos, Zapotecs, and Mexicas
(Aztecs).
Interdisciplinary Option:  Latin American Studies, Race and Ethnicity   
Course equivalencies:  ANTH242/LASP216   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to: 1) deﬁne what is meant by Mesoamerica; 2)
identify how Mesoamerican heritage connects to contemporary nations
and descendants; 3) explain key themes in Mesoamerican archaeology
ANTH 243   North American Archaeology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 101 or ANTH 104   
This course surveys archaeological evidence in North America with
focus on regional patterns of indigenous adaptation and explanations for
prehistoric culture change.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to describe the chronological pattern and regional
diversity in the cultural evolution of prehistoric societies in North
American from ice-age colonization to European contact
ANTH 244   Historical Archaeology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 101 or ANTH 104; Recommended: ANTH 241   
Historical archaeology merges the study of documentary records with
material remains to understand the overlaps, gaps, and contradictions in
narratives about the human experience. This course is an introduction to
the methods of historical archaeology, including issues of perspective,
coloniality, and silencing that shape our understanding of history.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to 1) describe how archaeology and anthropology
complement documentary analysis; 2) identify sources of bias in
historical analysis; 3) apply intersectional and community-based
methods to archaeology
ANTH 245   Gender in Deep Time   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students will critically reflect on gender in cross-cultural and long-
term perspective. From an anthropological perspective, they will also
deconstruct their own cultural biases and assumptions. With a deep
and critical understanding of contemporary norms, students will apply
evidence-based reasoning to examine the construction of gender in the
past.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Women
& Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
1) Describe Western ideas of gender and sexuality; 2) identify
connections between feminist movements and gender archaeology; 3)
apply an intersectional approach to the study of gender both past and
presentANTH 246   Ancient Human-Animal Interactions   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  For BIOL-BS, BIOL-MINR, and BIOE-BS students: BIOL 102;
for all others: ANTH 101, ANTH 104, BIOL 102, ENVS 101, or ENVS 137   
This course focuses on human-animal interactions in the past an d covers
how humans have shaped the geographic ranges and behaviors of
animals today. Questions on whether humans caused prehistoric animal
extinctions and how animal domestication occurred will be explored
using evidence from archaeological and paleontological records around
the world.
Course equivalencies:  X - ANTH 246 / BIOL 246   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of how archaeologists use
empirical data to answer questions about prehistoric human-animal
interactions
ANTH 247   Aliens, Atlantis, and Archaeology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students will examine the foundations of archaeological knowledge
claims to distinguish science from pseudoscience. Students will
also examine ways of knowing that go beyond Western science (i.e.,
Indigenous epistemologies). In the end, students will understand why
academic archaeologists do or do not accept claims about ancient aliens
or mythical moundbuilders. 2) Differentiate science from pseudoscience
in popular media. 3) Construct an evidence-based argument about an
archaeological controversy.
Outcomes:
1) Identify logical arguments and their supporting evidence
ANTH 258   Medical Anthropology & Global Health   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines how society and health are intertwined using
medical anthropology and global health. Medical anthropology is the
study of how health and illness are shaped, experienced, and understood
cross-culturally, while global health is dedicated to improving the health
of populations worldwide. Students will apply their knowledge t o develop
a research proposal.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Outcomes:
Students will learn how medical anthropologists and global health
scientists work in varying cultural contexts to understand health and
illness
ANTH 280   Evolution of Human Disease   (3 Credit Hours)   
The complex interaction between humans and pathogens is explored
throughout time, with particular emphasis on the role and impact of
human biology, human culture, and changing environments.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH280/BIOL280/BIET280   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the human
immunological system, competing paradigms of human health, the
processes and mechanisms of biological evolution, the pathogeneses
of speciﬁc diseases, and the archaeological, paleopathological,
paleodemographic, and historical data used to explore the evolution of
disease

--- Page 30 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 61
ANTH 281   Evolution of the Human Diet   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  For BIOL-BS, BIOL-MINR, and BIOE-BS students: BIOL 102;
for all others: ANTH 101 or BIOL 102   
This interdisciplinary course explores the evolution of the human diet
utilizing a biocultural perspective. The complex interplay between our
diet, biology, and culture is examined through energy acquisition, primate
and hominin nutrition, the Agricultural Revolution and Industrialization
on human health, food sustainability, and nutritional inequality through
socioeconomic and gender lenses.
Course equivalencies:  X-BIOL 281/ANTH 281   
Outcomes:
Students will identify the role food has played throughout the 6-7 million
years of human evolution, and its signiﬁcance in terms of climate change
variability, evolutionary adaptations and contemporary inequality
ANTH 300   Anthropology Career Development   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Restricted to ANTH/SANT majors and minors   
This course empowers students to translate their undergraduate
anthropology education into a professional portfolio that communicates
their knowledge, skills, and experiences to graduate schools an d future
employers.
Outcomes:
Through personal reflection exercises, the preparation of professional
and scholarly application documents, and proposal writing, students will
gain insight into how their anthropological education informs their future
professional interests
ANTH 303   People and Conservation   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course considers the interplay between indigenous peoples and
environmental resources utilizing current perspectives from evolutionary
and community ecology, conservation biology, anthropology, political
ecology and economics.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  ANTH303/INTS303A/BIET303   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of factors influencing
this interplay, including environmental ethics, traditional environmental
knowledge, resource management, community-based conservation,
property rights, common-pool resources, sustainable development, land
tenure, indigenous movements, and eco-tourism
ANTH 304   Anthropological Theory   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100 or ANTH 102   
In this course, we review major works of anthropological theory that
have influenced anthropology over the course of the past two centuries.
We attend to dynamic conversations that occur within the discipline,
the geopolitical diversity (and lack thereof) of anthropological theorists,
and we consider how these factors have shaped the trajectory of
anthropological research over time.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Race and Ethnicity   
Outcomes:
Students will: Demonstrate in-depth knowledge of major paradigms and
concepts in anthropology; apply anthropological theory to contemporary
topics and debates; critically discuss ethical and political implications
of anthropological research; demonstrate familiarity with main points of
agreement and disagreement in the disciplineANTH 305   Violence and Culture   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the complex relationships between violence and
culture using the ethnographic method as practiced by anthropologists
and other social scientists.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Sociolegal Studies   
Course equivalencies:  ANTH305/INTS303/PAX305   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the ways violence
destroys, alters or produces forms of cultural meaning and social action
and the ways in which cultural difference impacts patterns of violence
ANTH 306   Anthropology and Human Rights   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100 or ANTH 102   
This course examines the concept of universal human rights, and the
social movement that has developed to promote human rights, from an
anthropological perspective.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Sociolegal Studies   
Course equivalencies:  ANTH306/INTS308/PAX306   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the social and
historical origins of the concept of human rights and analyze the debates
that arise out of applying the concept of human rights in cross-cultural
contexts
ANTH 307   The Body and Culture   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines how culture shapes how the human body is
understood, categorized and used, and it also examines how bodily
experiences shape culture and society. Drawing on cultural anthropology,
it analyzes diverse cross-cultural examples, possibly ranging from body
decoration among Amazonian indigenous people, to plastic surgery,
childbirth, or sports.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will learn how socio-cultural forces shape human bodies;
understand how cultural anthropology examines the body; and examine
classic social theories about bodies, gender, social class and subjectivity
ANTH 309   Urban Anthropology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100 or ANTH 102   
This course is focused on deﬁning characteristics of city life across
a variety of societies It particularly considers urban complexity in the
context of the globalization of cities.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Urban Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain a cross-cultural and global outlook on the deﬁning
features of urbanism
ANTH 314   Applied Anthropology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 304 or Instructor approval   
This course offers a hands-on introduction to the application of
anthropological principles and methods to non-academic, "real world"
problems. Course sessions will be dedicated to situating applied
anthropology within the broader discipline, learning methods, and
practicing applied cultural techniques. Students will also develop and
carry out an applied cultural anthropology project.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will: situate applied anthropology in the broader discipline;
practice a variety of applied methodological techniques; work with a
community partner to design a project; prepare a comprehensive and
clearly written report

--- Page 31 ---
62  College of Arts and Sciences
ANTH 316   Anthropology of Religion & Ritual   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100 or ANTH 102   
The course considers religion as a form and part of culture. The
innovative as well as conservative features of religion in culture change
are addressed. Religion's role as both a belief-system and ritual practice
are underscored.
Outcomes:
Students will develop the capacity to view religion in a broad perspective
and to understand it as a signiﬁcant factor of belief and practice in
cultural systems
ANTH 317   Ethnographic Methods   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is designed to offer an introduction to qualitative methods
in anthropology. Students will learn methodologies such as participant
observation, interviewing, and document analysis, and we will also
address ethical issues in ﬁeld research. Students will design and carry
out an ethnographic research project. Instructor permission required.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Urban Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will: demonstrate in-depth knowledge of qualitative research
techniques; critically discuss ethical implications of ethnographic
research; undertake original ethnographic ﬁeldwork; prepare a
comprehensive, theoretically informed, and clearly written report based
on original ethnographic data
ANTH 319   Anthropology of Tourism   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100 or ANTH 102   
This course explores the phenomenon of tourism from an anthropological
perspective, addressing the social, cultural, economic, and environmental
impact of tourism on host communities and nations.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH319/INTS319   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the strengths/limitations
of various theoretical models for understanding tourism dynamics;
tourism's role in national development; the interplay between tourism
and cultural imagery; gender dynamics in tourism; the role of tourism
institutions (museums, souvenirs, travel literature) in the construction of
"exotic others"
ANTH 321   Human Rights in Latin America   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines human rights in Latin America from a
multidisciplinary perspective. It asks: what are human rights? Why
have human rights abuses occurred and how have Latin Americans
responded?
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, Global Studies, Latin American
Studies, Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies, Sociolegal Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH 321/LASP 398   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the international human rights legal framework,
be able to analyze why abuses have occurred, and understand how Latin
Americans have mobilized by studying speciﬁc casesANTH 324   Human Evolution   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 101 or ANTH 103   
The course examines the discipline of paleoanthropology, including
the techniques and methods, evolutionary framework, and detailed
analysis of skeletal and archaeological material that form our current
understanding of human evolution. Students will develop critical thinking
skills in how to interpret the human fossil and archaeological records.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science, Neuroscience   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to discuss the interdisciplinarity of
paleoanthropology, including the use of speciﬁc geology, chemistry, and
archaeological techniques
ANTH 325   Primatology-Behavior & Ecology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 101 or any 100-level Biology course   
This course examines primate behavior and ecology from a comparative
and evolutionary perspective. Students will be introduced to the diversity
across taxonomic groups within the Order Primates. Through class
discussion and observation, students will explore key issues in primate
studies. Students will develop and apply skills in primate observation.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH325/BIOL325/ESP 325   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to describe the taxonomic diversity of non-human
primates and explain the impact of biological, evolutionary, and ecological
factors on primate behavior
ANTH 326   Human Osteology Lec/Lab   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 101, or ANTH 103, or background in Biology   
This course focuses on developing a deep understanding of the human
skeleton and ways in which biological anthropologists and forensic
anthropologists use this knowledge to explore human biological diversity.
Through hands-on exercises and class discussion, students will build
analytical skills that are foundational to many techniques used by
professionals and will appreciate the complex ethical considerations
inherent to the ﬁelds of biological and forensic anthropology.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH326/BIOL326   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate superior knowledge of skeletal
anatomy, analyses of skeletal remains from archaeological contexts, and
apply current techniques designed to understand and explore human
variation, stature, ancestry, age-at-death, sex, and pathological conditions
ANTH 327   Dental Anthropology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 101 or any 100-level Biology course   
This course examines teeth with an anthropological perspective. By using
evolution by natural selection as our theoretical framework, students will
learn dental anatomy, morphology, and variation. The course then focuses
on embryology, dental development and eruption, and the biocultural
ways humans use their teeth.
Course equivalencies:  X- ANTH 327/BIOL 378   
Outcomes:
Students will gain factual knowledge of teeth from an evolutionary
perspective and will develop speciﬁc hands-on skills needed by dental
anthropologists, dentists, and oral biologists including dental molding,
casting, and wear scoring

--- Page 32 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 63
ANTH 328   Pompeii and Herculaneum   (3 Credit Hours)   
The two best known Roman towns - Pompeii and Herculaneum - whose
remains were preserved by the eruption of Mt. Vesuvius in 79 CE - will
serve as a microcosm for understanding Roman society.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Course equivalencies:  HIST328/CLST328/ANTH328   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of how recent archaeological
discoveries have changed our view of Pompeii and Herculaneum and
learn to "read" such things as dining and bathing rituals, gladiator games,
and public and private architecture to gain insight into the structures of
Roman social and cultural life
ANTH 330   Language in Popular Culture   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100 or ANTH 102 or ANTH 208   
This course presents a critical approach to understanding language and
linguistic innovation in popular culture, including entertainment and news
media, digital communication, and political discourse.
Outcomes:
Students will 1) identify linguistic patterns and language ideologies
in mass media and digital discourse, 2) critically assess linguistic
evaluations and (mis)representations of social groups, 3) apply linguistic
anthropological insights to their own experiences with language in pop
culture
ANTH 332   Language, Race, and Inequality   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100 or ANTH 102 or ANTH 208   
This course addresses how and why languages and speakers are
associated with racialized stereotypes, and how linguistic discrimination
operates in U.S. culture today. In-depth case studies examine language
and race in education, mass media, material culture, and everyday
interaction. Critical perspectives on sociolinguistic norms and
relationships between language, Whiteness, and power are also included.
Critical thinking and writing are emphasized.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Latin
American Studies, Race and Ethnicity   
Outcomes:
Students will identify relationships between language and race
in everyday life, recognize and analyze instances of linguistic
discrimination, stereotypes, and covert racism
ANTH 334   Intro to Classical Archaeology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Refer to CLST 334
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH334/CLST334   
ANTH 334R   Introduction to Classical Archaeology - Rome/Italy Focus   (3
Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the main explorations and achievements in the
recovery of monuments of the ancient Greco-Roman world, particularly in
Rome and Italy, and on the methodologies involved with the recoveries.
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH334/CLST334   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to recognize and interpret selected sites
and monuments of the Greco-Roman world; They should be able to
demonstrate knowledge of methodologies and the technical vocabulary
of classical archaeology
ANTH 340   Classical Archaeology: Greek Temple   (3 Credit Hours)   
Refer to CLST 340
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH340/CLST340   ANTH 342   Rise & Fall of Civilizations   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 101 or ANTH 104   
This course examines the socio-cultural process that produced complex
societies in the past, particularly the contrasting trajectories of Old World
and New World civilizations. Emphasis is on the material manifestations
of status differences, power relations, and ideological control.
Outcomes:
Students will appreciate the complicated dynamics that underwrite
increasing socio-cultural differentiation and will understand the
archaeological methods used to chart that differentiation through time
ANTH 346   Biology of Women   (3 Credit Hours)   
The biology of women at pivotal points in the lifespan, along with
the biological changes that occur from one life stage to another. The
interaction of society (e.g., medical ﬁeld) with women at each of these
points in time. Topics to be discussed include the evolution of sex and
gender, gender differentiation and diversity, reproductive processes,
disease, detection and treatment, and violence against women.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  BIOL346/WOST346/ANTH346/WSGS   
ANTH 348   Museum & Material Culture Research   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course offers direct experience with anthropological research
methods and analysis using material culture and archival holdings from
the May Weber Ethnographic Study Collection. Grounded in object-
based studies and using examples from the collection, this course will
examine collecting contexts, formal and technical analyses, operational
sequences, cultural contexts, and interpretation.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students gain knowledge of research techniques for working with
museum-held objects while contributing to the permanent documentation
and interpretation of the May Weber Ethnographic Study Collection
through object research
ANTH 353   Epidemics and Pandemics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 101 or BIOL 101   
This interdisciplinary course tracks how scientists from multiple
disciplines have come together to understand and combat epidemics,
such as Ebola, HIV, Zika, SARS, MERS, and COVID-19. From the molecular
pathways underlying disease to the cultural contexts shaping public
health responses, students will understand epidemics and pandemics
from a biological and social perspective.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the biological,
epidemiological, clinical, and social aspects of key epidemics/pandemics;
Students will develop critical thinking skills by using this information to
develop locally-relevant public health recommendations
ANTH 356   Bioanthropological Lab Work   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  permission of department chairperson or instructor   
Individualized opportunity to learn about and engage in the main
laboratory methods used in bioanthropological research
Outcomes:
Students will gain detailed knowledge of the main bioanthropological lab
methods

--- Page 33 ---
64  College of Arts and Sciences
ANTH 359   Paleopathology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 101 or Instructor permission; Recommended:
ANTH 326   
This course introduces advanced students to the exploration of the
history of human disease through the analysis of human skeletal
remains.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH359/BIOL359   
Outcomes:
Students will have command of biological anthropological approaches
towards the understanding of human disease and will be familiar with
theoretical issues germane to the ﬁeld of paleopathology, biases and
ethical issues, and the role that disease has played throughout human
history
ANTH 360   Issues in Archaeology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 101 or ANTH 104   
Speciﬁc theoretical, methodological, and research problems in
archaeology with focus on current research in the discipline. Topics
include but are not restricted to: environmental archaeology;
ethnoarchaeology and experimental archaeology; the study of prehistoric
craft specialization, trade, demography, and urbanism.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to draw connections between contemporary
archaeological method and theory and current research issues in
anthropology
ANTH 361   Issues Cultural Anthropology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100 or ANTH 102   
The course is a vehicle for topics of particular interest to the instructor or
an issue of contemporary relevance. It may be a trial run for a course later
added to the ofﬁcial list.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate how cultural anthropology is
relevant to contemporary issues or how a problem can be structured
around a cultural anthropological viewpoint
ANTH 362   Issues in Biological Anthropology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 101 or BIO 101   
This course considers speciﬁc topics pertinent to the discipline of
physical or biological anthropology.
Outcomes:
Students will master theoretical perspectives and current information
pertinent to the speciﬁc issues covered in each speciﬁc course
ANTH 362B   Bioethics Minor Capstone: Anthropological Topics   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Two Science courses and two Ethics courses   
This course number will only be used when ANTH 362 is tagged with the
Bioethics Minor Capstone course.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the connection between ethical and
anthropological issues with regard to the special topic in anthropology
ANTH 363   Issues in Linguistic Anthropology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 208 or ANTH 231   
This course focuses on a current research question or area within
linguistic anthropology.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate appropriate knowledge and
application of methods and ﬁndings from aspects of linguistic
anthropology pertinent to the speciﬁc topic of the courseANTH 365   Archaeology Lab Methods   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 101 or ANTH 104   
Practicum in analysis techniques for common archaeological materials,
such as lithics, ceramics, faunal and floral remains, and historic debris.
Topics include transformation processes; classiﬁcation techniques;
data recording and analysis standardization; curation; and computerized
strategies of data management and analysis.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to identify, describe, and classify basic
archaeological materials and relate these analyses with traditional
techniques of material fabrication and processing
ANTH 366   Lithic Technology   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a laboratory analysis of archaeological stone tools through
experimentation and ethno-archaeology.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of causes of variability in
raw material procurement, manufacturing techniques, use wear, discard,
recycling, methodological and theoretical considerations of artifact
classiﬁcation and strategies of data management and analysis
ANTH 375   Archaeology of Early Greece   (3 Credit Hours)   
Refer to CLST 375
Course equivalencies:  X-CLST375/ANTH375   
ANTH 396   Internship in Anthropology   (3-6 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Students must receive instructor permission prior to
enrolling and must complete (with signatures) the Course Contract Form   
Enrollment is limited to Undergraduate Anthropology Majors/Minors.
This course is designed to enhance student engagement by facilitating
internship experiences within the department or in museums, service-
oriented organizations, businesses, and non-proﬁt organizations.
Experiential learning is combined with rigorous academic work. This
course may serve, if appropriate, as a capstone experience.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will produce a research paper, project, proposal, or assessed
piece that reflects the application and integration of anthropological
theory, methods, or techniques, to the internship experience
ANTH 396A   Internship: Bioarchaeology & Forensic Anthropology   (3
Credit Hours)   
This course is designed to enhance student engagement by facilitating
internship experiences in forensic anthropology and bioarchaeology,
working in collaboration with community partner organizations.
Experiential learning is combined with rigorous academic work. This
course may serve, if appropriate, as a capstone experience. Instructor
permission required.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  X-FRSC 390/ANTH 396A   
Outcomes:
Students will produce a research paper, project, proposal, or assessed
piece that reflects the application and integration of forensic-
anthropological theory, methods, or techniques, to the internship
experience
ANTH 396M   Internship: Museum Collections Management   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Instructor permission required   
Through a 100-hour internship in the May Weber Ethnographic Study
Collection on the Lakeshore campus, students will contribute to the
ongoing professional management of a museum collection.

--- Page 34 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 65
ANTH 397   Directed Readings-Anthropology   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Permission of chairperson and faculty member   
Individualized readings in varied topics within anthropology.
Outcomes:
Students will gain detailed knowledge of the speciﬁc topic of their
directed readings subject
ANTH 398   Independent Study-Anthropology   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Permission of chairperson and faculty member   
Individualized program of independent study of anthropological problems
and/or issues.
Outcomes:
Students will gain detailed knowledge of the speciﬁc study program they
undertake
ANTH 399   Fieldwork in Anthropology   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Permission of chairperson and faculty member   
Application of anthropological concepts and methods to a speciﬁc ﬁeld
situation under the supervision of a faculty member.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will learn ﬁeld techniques and data recovery and analysis
techniques pertinent to the speciﬁc nature of their ﬁeld experience
Arabic (ARAB)
ARAB 101   Arabic I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is designed for beginners and those with modest
acquaintance to Arabic. Through a culturally rich context, it focuses on
functional articulation of Modern Standard Arabic with a limited exposure
to Damascene (Shaami) dialect.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Arabic Language and Culture, Islamic World
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  ARAB101/IWS101A   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to write simple sentences, understand selected
principles of basic grammar and vocabulary, and will be introduced to
Modern Standard Arabic as well as to a modern spoken dialect; Students
will learn aspects of Arab culture
ARAB 102   Arabic 102   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ARAB 101 completed with C- or higher   
This course continues focusing on active functional use of Modern
Standard Arabic and Damascene dialect to help students develop
speaking, listening, reading comprehension, and writing skills in diverse
sociocultural contexts. Students with equivalent preparation must be
assessed for placement.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Arabic Language and Culture, Islamic World
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ARAB102/IWS102A   
Outcomes:
Students are expected to be able to sustain conversations on daily life
topics, to comprehend and compose simple authentic multimodal texts,
and integrate interdisciplinary knowledge of the Arab world (language,
religion, history, geography, or cultures) through a projectARAB 103   Arabic 103   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ARAB 102 completed with C- or higher   
This course continues focusing on active functional use of Modern
Standard Arabic and Damascene dialect in familiar topics reflecting the
behavior of native speakers. Students are expected to reach low-mid
intermediate proﬁciency levels. Students with equivalent preparation
must be assessed for placement.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Arabic Language and Culture, Islamic World
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  ARAB103/IWS103A   
Outcomes:
Students are expected to be able to initiate and sustain simple social
interactions about self and immediate environment; Students will be
able to comprehend and compose simple authentic multimodal texts
and apply such interdisciplinary knowledge of the Arab world (language,
religion, history, geography, or cultures) through a ﬁnal project
ARAB 104   Arabic 104   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ARAB 103 completed with C- or higher   
The course help students build an active learning solid foundation in the
intermediate level of functional use of Arabic. Students are expected
to learn how to own their learning process and engage critically in
representations of self and others. Students with equivalent preparation
must be assessed for placement.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Arabic Language and Culture, Islamic World
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ARAB104/IWS104A   
Outcomes:
Students are expected to be able to compose and comprehend more
complex authentic multi modal texts in topics of relevance to student,
investments and ﬁelds of study; They will articulate their integrative
interdisciplinary knowledge of the Arab world through a ﬁnal project
ARAB 250   Advanced Composition And Conversation   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ARAB 104 or equivalent; Students' self-assessment is not
sufﬁcient for placement in an appropriate level of Arabic class   
The focus of the course assignments is to connect classroom work
and community-based service learning into a constructive coordinated
dual relationship. Bedsides classroom language learning, students
will complete 20 hours in community-based work at an organization of
service to Arab and Muslim immigrants and refugees. Some readings
may be in English.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Arabic Language and Culture, Islamic World
Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  ARAB250/IWS250A   
Outcomes:
Students will synthesize classroom and community-based learning
contexts to reflect on collective and individual explorations of concepts
of civic engagement with Arab/Muslim communities; They will
demonstrate awareness of self and community through learning
portfolios and public presentations

--- Page 35 ---
66  College of Arts and Sciences
ARAB 251   Advanced Composition and Conversation II   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course emphasizes the development of advanced Arabic speaking
and writing skills and examines grammar and vocabulary in relation to
advanced skill development. Conducted entirely in Arabic.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Arabic Language and Culture, Islamic World
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ARAB251/IWS251A   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate advanced reading, writing, listening,
and speaking skills in Arabic; Students will also be able to demonstrate
knowledge of signiﬁcant aspects of the Arab world and culture in relation
to their major ﬁeld of study
Arts (ARTS)
ARTS 200   Introduction to Teaching Artistry   (3 Credit Hours)   
Introduction to teaching artistry with an emphasis on art education, art
integration and community-based arts practices.
Outcomes:
Students will identify and describe the practice of teaching artistry, reflect
on a direct experience with an art organization, and create a lesson plan
ARTS 201   Grant Writing for the Arts   (2 Credit Hours)   
Introduction to grant writing for the arts. The course concludes with a
completed grant proposal.
Outcomes:
Students will identify how to ﬁnd grants that support the arts and engage
in the process of applying for a grant or other arts funding
ARTS 397   Fieldwork in Arts Education   (3 Credit Hours)   
Credit given for arts education work outside the university undertaken
under the guidance professional arts educators. Students keep an hour
and activity log and write reflective evaluative papers. Permission of the
Department of Fine and Performing Arts Speciﬁc outcomes and credit
hours assigned to be determined by the student in consultation with the
Teaching Artistry Faculty Coordinator and the project supervisor
Asian Studies (ASIA)
ASIA 101   Explorations in Asian Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces the histories and cultures of East, Southeast, and
South Asia from early modern times to the present.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ASIA101/INTS202   
ASIA 130   Introduction to Martial Arts   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces the student to Chinese Wushu. Two forms of
Wushu will be selected for in depth study each semester. Students will
explore the origins of the sports studied and their importance to Chinese
culture and philosophy while learning the speciﬁc physical techniques.
Course equivalencies:  THTR130/ASIA130   
Outcomes:
Students will improve their balance, flexibility and coordination while
learning the basic moves of two forms of Wushu; They will develop a
reference for appreciating the place of Wushu in Chinese culture and
create a foundation for further Wushu training
ASIA 152   Drawing China   (3 Credit Hours)   
This is an introductory drawing course. There are no pre-requisites nor
prior experience need to succeed in this course. Beijing is our  laboratory
and the topic of all class drawings.
Course equivalencies:  FNAR152/ASIA152   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to draw trees, buildings, automobiles, vegetables,
human beings in real life situations and in perspectiveASIA 160   The Crafts of China   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the artisan crafts of China historically and
technically. The course explores how and why the crafts appeared,
their historical trajectory and demonstrates how the crafts improved
technically. Ceramics, Bronze Castings and Wood works will serve as
prototypes. Students will undertake independent researches.
Course equivalencies:  FNAR160/ASIA160   
Outcomes:
Students will identify how the crafts of woodwork, bronze casting and
ceramics evolved and how they are currently practiced in China; Students
will articulate an understanding of the function of craft in Chinese culture
as well compare and contrast it to the function craft in their own culture
ASIA 167   Religions in China   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a survey of various religions in China that may include,
not only Confucianism and Taoism, but also Buddhism, Christianity,
Islam, Judaism, Zoroastrianism, Manicheism and popular or "folk"
religion. The course will consider the function of these various religions
in the development of Chinese society and their signiﬁcance in Chinese
civilization from ancient mythology to contemporary practices and
developments. "
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO167/ASIA167/INTS167   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge of the beliefs, practices,
and institutions in varied contexts and historical periods in China, of
various religions, both indigenous and "foreign
ASIA 168   Sacred Texts of China   (3 Credit Hours)   
Through the study of primary sacred texts of China (in translation), this
class will provide a basic understanding of Chinese thought and its
historical development. Interconnections among the various periods and
different schools of Chinese philosophy such as Confucianism, Taoism,
Buddhism and Neo-Confucianism will be demonstrated and discussed
from ancient through the medieval and modern periods.
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO168/ASIA168/INTS168   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge of the major Chinese
sacred texts and teachings of various religious and philosophical
traditions, and how they developed and interacted historically
ASIA 169   Taoism   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students will study the history and main ideas and practices of Taoism,
meet the sages who wrote the Taoist texts, be introduced to the various
schools of Taoist philosophy, and get a feel for what it means to practice
Taoism today. The course will illustrate how religious Taoism established
a relationship with Confucian thought and practice as well as how at each
stage of its historical development, Taoism exerted a profound influence
on Chinese politics, economy, culture, art, natural sciences, and social life.
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO169/ASIA169/INTS169   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge of philosophical and
religious Taoist beliefs, practices, and institutions in varied contexts and
historical periods
ASIA 191   Traditional Chinese Philosophy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students will investigate Chinese ancient philosophy in a way to
let its own tendencies be sensed and appreciated. Topics include
Confucianism, Mencius, Sunzi, Taoism, Legalism, Yin-Yang School,
Tung Chung-shu, Chinese Buddhism and Neo-Confucianism. In addition,
students learn about the relations among different schools or different
thinkers in the same school. Comparisons between Chinese philosophies
and western ones are encouraged.
Course equivalencies:  X-PHIL191/ASIA191   

--- Page 36 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 67
ASIA 192   Chinese Ethics and Asian Values   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course offers an overview of the spirit of Chinese ethics, covering
sacred and secular as well as intellectual and practical elements.
Course equivalencies:  X-PHIL192/ASIA192/INTS192   
ASIA 193   Contemporary Chinese Philosophy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students will analyze the development of Chinese contemporary
thought in its different stages: rejection of the tradition and its recent
reevaluation.
Course equivalencies:  X-PHIL193/ASIA193/INTS193   
ASIA 252   Peoples of China   (3 Credit Hours)   
This class introduces China's cultural diversity and unity as a whole. It
provides a general overview of cultural mappings in China, and a detailed
study of signiﬁcant ethnic minorities.
Course equivalencies:  SOCL251/ASIA252/INTS251   
Outcomes:
Students will gain the ability to perceive cultural phenomena in a
comparative framework and understand cultural differences more deeply
ASIA 263   Political and Social Movements in China   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines historical and contemporary movements pursuing
political, economic and social reforms in China. It studies both state-
sponsored and voluntary movements.
Course equivalencies:  SOCL263/INTS263   
Outcomes:
Students will gain a deeper understanding of China's ongoing
transformation, and will learn how to develop their own scholarly analysis
of such social change
ASIA 266   Development and Social Change in Modern China   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course examines change and development in modern China from the
late Qing period to the present, focusing on the movement from a planned
economy to a market-based economy.
Course equivalencies:  SOCL266/ASIA266/INTS266WSGS297   
Outcomes:
Students will gain knowledge of China's economic development path,
and will apply gender and/or class-based analysis to patterns of social
change
ASIA 272   Environment of China   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides a systematic introduction to major environmental
issues in the context of recent social and economic development in China
Course equivalencies:  X-NTSC270/ASIA272/INTS270   
ASIA 292   Modern Chinese Fiction   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces selected ﬁctional works by some of the most
insightful writers of modern China. The course focuses on signiﬁcant
aspects of these works with an objective to enhance students'
fascination with and skill in the reading and analysis of modern Chinese
ﬁction. Knowledge of modern Chinese ﬁction will enable students to
understand central aspects of 20th century Chinese culture.
Course equivalencies:  X-LITR292/ASIA292/INTS290   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze literary texts of a particular historical
period and write critical essays on works read in the courseASIA 297   Topics in Asia   (3 Credit Hours)   
Special topics or new approaches of current interest to the instructor.
This course may be used to fulﬁll the Asian minor requirement for a 300-
level course in Asia-related topics. Students may repeat the course for
credit when the topic changes.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain familiarity with the topic; the ability to m ake
connections between secondary and primary sources; and the capacity
to think critically about the ways that historians have approached major
issues
ASIA 302   Discovering China Through Film   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will give an overview of major ﬁlms produced in mainland
China since 1949. Students will examine the genres of Chinese ﬁlm
better known in contemporary China and consider them a major source
of reflection upon, and critique of, contemporary Chinese society and
culture.
Course equivalencies:  CMUN301/ASIA/INTS/AIFMS302   
Outcomes:
All ﬁlms chosen for the course will help inform students' understanding of
modern China in terms of its material conditions and ideology
ASIA 314   Modern Chinese Literature in Chinese   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a survey of modern Chinese literature from 1918 to the
present. It requires the close reading of famous Chinese writers and
poets as well as some of the avant-garde writers. Students will have the
opportunity to explore their own ideas of the aesthetic characteristics
of the Chinese literature in the 20th century, as well as its historical
and social background and learn about one of the important aspects of
modern Chinese culture.
Course equivalencies:  X-CHIN341/ASIA314/INTS341A   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of principal, genres, themes and
forms of modern Chinese literature through analytical oral and written
arguments
Bioethics (BIET)
BIET 395   Special Topics   (3 Credit Hours)   
This interdisciplinary team-taught course examines a topic in bioethics
from both scientiﬁc and ethical points of view. Topics may include:
biotechnologies, concepts of race and gender, the environment,
reproduction, and others.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand the relevant scientiﬁc concepts,
techniques, and methods, recognize ethical issues raised by the topic,
and use ethical reasoning and ethical judgement (concepts, theories,
methods) to discuss the topic
BIET 395A   Bioethics Minor Capstone: Philosophical & Anthropological
Topics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Two Science courses and two Ethics courses   
This interdisciplinary team-taught course examines a topic in bioethics
from both scientiﬁc and ethical points of view. Topics may include:
biotechnologies, concepts of race and gender, the environment,
reproduction, and others.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand the relevant scientiﬁc concepts,
techniques, and methods, recognize ethical issues raised by the topic,
and use ethical reasoning and ethical judgment (concepts, theories,
methods) to discuss the topic

--- Page 37 ---
68  College of Arts and Sciences
BIET 395B   Bioethics Minor Capstone: Philosophical & Biological
Topics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Two Science courses and two Ethics courses   
This interdisciplinary team-taught course examines a topic in bioethics
from both scientiﬁc and ethical points of view. Topics may include:
biotechnologies, concepts of race and gender, the environment,
reproduction, and others.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand the relevant scientiﬁc concepts,
techniques, and methods, recognize ethical issues raised by the topic,
and use ethical reasoning and ethical judgment (concepts, theories,
methods) to discuss the topic
BIET 395C   Bioethics Minor Capstone: Philosophical and Chemical
Topics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Two Science courses and two Ethics courses   
This interdisciplinary team-taught course examines a topic in bioethics
from both scientiﬁc and ethical points of view. Topics may include:
biotechnologies, concepts of race and gender, the environment,
reproduction, and others.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand the relevant scientiﬁc concepts,
techniques, and methods, recognize ethical issues raised by the topic,
and use ethical reasoning and ethical judgment (concepts, theories,
methods) to discuss the topic
BIET 395E   Bioethics Minor Capstone: Philosophical & Environmental
Science Topics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Two Science courses and two Ethics courses   
This interdisciplinary team-taught course examines a topic in bioethics
from both scientiﬁc and ethical points of view. Topics may include:
biotechnologies, concepts of race and gender, the environment,
reproduction, and others.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand the relevant scientiﬁc concepts,
techniques, and methods, recognize ethical issues raised by the topic,
and use ethical reasoning and ethical judgment (concepts, theories,
methods) to discuss the topic
BIET 396A   Bioethics Minor Capstone: Theological & Anthropological
Topics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Two Science courses and two Ethics courses   
This interdisciplinary team-taught course examines a topic in bioethics
from both scientiﬁc and ethical points of view. Topics may include:
biotechnologies, concepts of race and gender, the environment,
reproduction, and others.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand the relevant scientiﬁc concepts,
techniques, and methods, recognize ethical issues raised by the topic,
and use ethical reasoning and ethical judgment (concepts, theories,
methods) to discuss the topicBIET 396B   Bioethics Minor Capstone: Theological and Biological
Topics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Two Science courses and two Ethics courses   
This interdisciplinary team-taught course examines a topic in bioethics
from both scientiﬁc and ethical points of view. Topics may include:
biotechnologies, concepts of race and gender, the environment,
reproduction, and others.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand the relevant scientiﬁc concepts,
techniques, and methods, recognize ethical issues raised by the topic,
and use ethical reasoning and ethical judgment (concepts, theories,
methods) to discuss the topic
BIET 396C   Bioethics Minor Capstone: Theological and Chemical
Topics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Two Science courses and two Ethics courses   
This interdisciplinary team-taught course examines a topic in bioethics
from both scientiﬁc and ethical points of view. Topics may include:
biotechnologies, concepts of race and gender, the environment,
reproduction, and others.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand the relevant scientiﬁc concepts,
techniques, and methods, recognize ethical issues raised by the topic,
and use ethical reasoning and ethical judgment (concepts, theories,
methods) to discuss the topic
BIET 396E   Bioethics Minor Capstone: Theological & Environmental
Science Topics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Two Science courses and two Ethics courses   
This interdisciplinary team-taught course examines a topic in bioethics
from both scientiﬁc and ethical points of view. Topics may include:
biotechnologies, concepts of race and gender, the environment,
reproduction, and others.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand the relevant scientiﬁc concepts,
techniques, and methods, recognize ethical issues raised by the topic,
and use ethical reasoning and ethical judgment (concepts, theories,
methods) to discuss the topic
Bioinformatics (BIOI)
BIOI 300   Directed Readings   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Readings from the scientiﬁc literature in any focused area of
bioinformatics agreed upon by the student and the supervising faculty
member.
Outcomes:
Students will gain knowledge, journal reading expertise, and scientiﬁc
writing skills
BIOI 365   Exploring Proteins   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Bioinformatics Majors only and CHEM 361   
Computational tools are essential for the prediction of protein structures,
protein interactions, and structure based drug design. This class will
introduce fundamental concepts in the ﬁeld of computational protein
biology.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain a general understanding of the principles of
proteomics in addition to theoretical and practical experience with
protein-based databases and bioinformatics tools to explore protein
structure and function

--- Page 38 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 69
BIOI 395   Special Topics: Bioinformatics   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Special areas of bioinformatics outside the usual curriculum that vary
each time the course is offered.
Outcomes:
Students will gain knowledge in and master a unique topic in
bioinformatics
BIOI 397   Bioinformatics Survey   (1-4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 101 and Instructor consent   
This course trains students in conducting collaborative bioinformatics
research as well reading and presenting scientiﬁc research.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Provides an alternative to individual research; reflects trends in the ﬁeld
for collaborative, group research
BIOI 398   Bioinformatics Internship   (1-4 Credit Hours)   
An independent research experience involving laboratory experiments,
computer program development, or statistical analysis or any
combination of these performed off-campus under the mentorship of a
Bioinformatics scientist not afﬁliated with Loyola.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
All students will acquire skills to perform and report on independent
research and to be intellectually responsible for evaluating their own and
related work; Other outcomes will include at least one of the following:
Experimental expertise, statistical evaluation of data sets, design and use
of computational tools
BIOI 399   Bioinformatics Research   (1-4 Credit Hours)   
An independent research experience involving laboratory experiments,
computer program development, or statistical analysis or any
combination of these performed under the mentorship of one or more
Bioinformatics faculty members.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
All students will acquire skills to perform and report on independent
research and to be intellectually responsible for evaluating their own and
related work; Other outcomes will include at least one of the following:
Experimental expertise, statistical evaluation of data sets, design and use
of computational tools
Biology (BIOL)
BIOL 101   General Biology I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Fundamental principles of Biology including: introduction to the
scientiﬁc method, basic biological chemistry; cell structure and function;
energy transformations; mechanisms of cell communication; cellular
reproduction; and principles of genetics.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics, Bioinformatics, Forensic Science   
Course equivalencies:  ACBIO 101 / BIOL 101   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the historical
foundations, methodologies employed, general architecture and
functioning of the cell - the basic unit of lifeBIOL 102   General Biology II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 101 and 111   
A continuation of BIOL 101. Fundamental principles of Biology including:
evolutionary theory; general principles of ecology; study of plant structure
and function; and comparative animal physiology.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics, Forensic Science   
Course equivalencies:  ACBIO 102 / BIOL 102   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the
fundamental principles of ecology and evolution, as well as the anatomy
and physiology of representative plant and animal phyla
BIOL 110   Liberal Arts Biology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 101 or ENVS 137; No requirement for students with a
declared major or minor in the Department of Anthropology, Department
of Biology, Department of Chemistry, Department of Environmental
Science, Department of Physics, Bioinformatics, Forensic Science or
Neuroscience   
Liberal Arts Biology is a second tier core course in the area of Scientiﬁc
Literacy. It covers fundamental principles of biological sciences at a
level for non-science majors. The focus of the course will vary depending
on expertise of the instructor. All instructors will address the same
fundamental principles.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Scientiﬁc Knowledge   
Outcomes:
Students understand the scientiﬁc method, diversity of life, classiﬁcation
of organisms, cell structure and function, the chromosomal and
molecular basis of inheritance, and organ systems of the human body
BIOL 111   General Biology I Lab   (1 Credit Hour)   
Complements General Biology I lecture material through observation,
experimentation, and when appropriate, dissection of representative
organisms. Physical and chemical phenomena of life as well as
systematics and comparative anatomy and physiology of selected
organisms will be examined.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics, Forensic Science   
Course equivalencies:  BIOL 111/ACBIO 111   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the di versity
of living organisms, including comparisons in cell structure and function,
and comparative organismal evolution and ecology
BIOL 112   General Biology II Lab   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 101 and BIOL 111   
Complements General Biology II lecture material through observation,
experimentation, and when appropriate, dissection of representative
organisms. Physical and chemical phenomena of life as well as
systematics and comparative anatomy and physiology of selected
organisms will be examined.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics, Forensic Science   
Course equivalencies:  ACBIO 112 / BIOL 112   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the di versity
of living organisms, including comparisons in cell structure and function,
and comparative organismal evolution and ecology
BIOL 195   Special Topics in Biology   (1-4 Credit Hours)   
Special Topics - Speciﬁc areas of study in the biological sciences.

--- Page 39 ---
70  College of Arts and Sciences
BIOL 205   Plant Biology Lec/Lab   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 102 and BIOL 112   
Lecture and laboratory. Survey of the principles of botany including
development and reproduction, structure, phylogeny and metabolism. "
Outcomes:
Students will understand the basic morphology of plants; utilize
morphology in the identiﬁcation of local plants; understand the anatomy
of plants; understand the relationship between anatomy and basic
physiology; recognize that differences in physiological function allow
different plants to be found in speciﬁc environments; appreciate the
diversity of organisms called "plants
BIOL 210   Laboratory Techniques   (2 Credit Hours)   
Lab sessions designed to prove a ﬁrm foundation in basic techniques and
procedures, use of equipment and apparatus; keeping a lab notebook and
in data collection and treatment.
Outcomes:
Students will acquire basic skills needed to work in a research laboratory
BIOL 215   Ornithology   (3 Credit Hours)   
An introduction to the biology of birds including the topics of anatomy,
physiology, behavior, ecology and evolution. Includes some ﬁeld trips to
learn how to identify species and to collect behavioral information.
Course equivalencies:  BIOL 215/ENVS 215   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the biology of bi rds and
be able to identify some of the commoner species of birds in our area
BIOL 240   Psychology & Biology of Perception   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101; For Biology majors: BIOL 102, BIOL 112, and
PSYC 101 Introduction to the study of sensory systems, especially vision
and audition, emphasizing historical development of the ﬁeld, multi-
disciplinary scientiﬁc approaches; recent research and theory on the
mechanisms of seeing and hearing; and applications of research to real-
world problems   
BIOL 240 is cross-listed with PSYC 240.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Course equivalencies:  X-PSYC240/BIOL240   
BIOL 242   Anatomy and Physiology I   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 102, BIOL 112, and [(CHEM 102 and 112) or CHEM 106
or CHEM 180]   
Lecture, laboratory, and demonstrations. Organization of the human body
from the cellular to the organismal level. Anatomy of body systems and
their physiology related to 1) support and movement (integumentary,
skeletal and muscular systems) and integration and control (nervous and
endocrine systems). Dissection of representative organs is required.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge of human anatomy
at the microscopic and gross levels; Students will be able to correlate
structure and function and will have a ﬁrm understanding of the
organizing principle of human physiology, homeostasis and explain the
role of the nervous and endocrine systems in its maintenanceBIOL 243   Anatomy and Physiology II   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 242   
Lecture, laboratory and demonstrations. A continuation of BIOL 242.
Anatomy of body systems and their physiology related to 1) regulation
and maintenance (cardiovascular, lymphatic respiratory, digestive and
urinary systems) and reproduction and development (male and female
reproductive systems.) Dissection of representative organs is required.
Prerequisites are BIOL 101, 102, 111, 112, BIOL 242 and CHEM 101, 102,
111, 112.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate a comprehensive integrated
knowledge and understanding of human anatomy and physiology at all
levels
BIOL 246   Ancient Human-Animal Interactions   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  For BIOL-BS, BIOL-MINR, and BIOE-BS students: BIOL 102;
for all others: ANTH 101, ANTH 104, BIOL 102, ENVS 101, or ENVS 137   
This course focuses on human-animal interactions in the past an d covers
how humans have shaped the geographic ranges and behaviors of
animals today. Questions on whether humans caused prehistoric animal
extinctions and how animal domestication occurred will be explored
using evidence from archaeological and paleontological records around
the world.
Course equivalencies:  X - ANTH 246 / BIOL 246   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of how archaeologists use
empirical data to answer questions about prehistoric human-animal
interactions
BIOL 251   Cell Biology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Biophysics majors ONL Y: (BIOL 101 and 111) and
(CHEM 102 or CHEM 106 or CHEM 160); All other majors: BIOL 102 and
112) and [(CHEM 102 and 112) or CHEM 106 or CHEM 160]   
This course covers basic molecular and cellular studies of living
organisms, emphasizing the relationships between subcellular structures
and biochemical and physiological functions of cells.
Outcomes:
Students will become familiar with a wide range of cell biological
principles and experimental approaches that led to important discoveries,
gain an appreciation of the scientiﬁc method, and learn about the goals of
modern cell biology research
BIOL 252   Cell Biology Laboratory   (1 Credit Hour)   
Co-requisites:  BIOL 251   
Pre or Laboratory experiences designed to explore relationships between
structure and function of subcellular components.
Outcomes:
Working knowledge of a variety of techniques utilized in the cell biology
laboratory
BIOL 265   Ecology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 102, BIOL 112, and (CHEM 102 or CHEM 106 or
CHEM 160)   
Relationships of organisms to their environment and to each other at the
organism, population, community, and ecosystem levels.
Outcomes:
Students will understand the fundamental principles governing the
interactions of organisms and their environment at the population,
community, and ecosystem levels

--- Page 40 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 71
BIOL 266   Ecology Laboratory   (1 Credit Hour)   
Co-requisites:  BIOL 265   
Pre or Laboratory and ﬁeld experience designed to illustrate the principles
of ecology and to give students experience in collecting, processing, and
analyzing data. Field trips required.
Course equivalencies:  BIOL266/ESP 266   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the methodology and use techniques in
studying interactions of organisms to the environment and to each other
at the organism, population, community, and ecosystem levels
BIOL 280   Evolution of Human Disease   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 102   
The complex interaction between humans and pathogens is explored
throughout time, with particular emphasis on the role and impact of
human biology, human culture, and changing environments.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH280/BIOL280/BIET280   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the human
immunological system, competing paradigms of human health, the
processes and mechanisms of biological evolution, the pathogeneses
of speciﬁc diseases, and the archaeological, paleopathological,
paleodemographic, and historical data used to explore the evolution of
disease
BIOL 281   Evolution of the Human Diet   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  For BIOL-BS, BIOL-MINR, and BIOE-BS students: BIOL 102;
for all others: ANTH 101 or BIOL 102   
This interdisciplinary course explores the evolution of the human diet
utilizing a biocultural perspective. The complex interplay between our
diet, biology, and culture is examined through energy acquisition, primate
and hominin nutrition, the Agricultural Revolution and Industrialization
on human health, food sustainability, and nutritional inequality through
socioeconomic and gender lenses.
Course equivalencies:  X-BIOL 281/ANTH 281   
Outcomes:
Students will identify the role food has played throughout the 6-7 million
years of human evolution, and its signiﬁcance in terms of climate change
variability, evolutionary adaptations and contemporary inequality
BIOL 282   Genetics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  For Bioinformatics and Biophysics Majors ONL Y: BIOL 101;
CHEM 102 or CHEM 106 or CHEM 160; For all other majors: BIOL 102,
112; CHEM 102 or CHEM 106 or CHEM 160   
This course surveys principles and processes of genetic inheritance, gene
expression, molecular biology, developmental, quantitative, population
and evolutionary genetics.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics, Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Students will develop knowledge and awareness of the genetic bases
of modern biology; Students will understand Mendelian principles of
inheritance, chromosome and DNA structure and replication, gene
expression, molecular biology, genetic bases of development and other
biological processes, and quantitative, population and evolutionary
geneticsBIOL 283   Genetics Laboratory   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 282; Or corequisite: BIOL 282   
Experiments and demonstrations to illustrate chromosomal structures
and transmission, molecular biology, gene linkage, gene frequencies and
variation.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics, Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Students will develop technical skills and ability to interpret data from a
variety of types of genetics experiments
BIOL 284   Behavioral and Cognitive Neuroscience   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  For BIOL-BS, BIOL-MINR, and BIOE-BS students: BIOL 102
and NEUR 101; For all others: NEUR 101   
Overview of topics and methodologies used in behavioral and cognitive
neuroscience including: attention, learning and memory, language,
reasoning, decision making, intelligence, emotions, social cognition, and
consciousness. BIOL 284 is cross-listed with PSYC 382.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Course equivalencies:  X-PSYC 382/BIOL 284   
Outcomes:
Students will understand theories regarding brain mechanisms,
underlying mental events and the technologies used for studying these
mechanisms
BIOL 296   Introduction to Research   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 102, 112; Permission of the instructor; Biology Core
highly recommended   
Students will begin reading the literature in the ﬁeld of their mentor,
conduct experiments designed by the mentor, and give a presentation
on their work or studies, in preparation for upper level undergraduate
research.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will develop critical reading skills and become familiar with
basic lab techniques in the area of their mentor
BIOL 302   General Microbiology Lec/Lab   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 251 and BIOL 282 Lecture and laboratory   
Fundamental concepts of microbial life, physiology, and metabolism.
Outcomes:
Students will learn the differences between the 3 domains of life and
will comprehend the biochemistry, morphology, growth characteristics,
structure and ecology of microbes
BIOL 303   Seminar in Neuroscience   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  NEUR 101 with a grade of C- or better   
The seminar introduces students to the interdisciplinary nature of
modern neuroscience with an emphasis on the various neuroscience
research activities that take place at Loyola University Chicago, and
reviews current neuroscience research topics. BIOL 303 is cross-listed
with NEUR 300.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Course equivalencies:  X-BIOL303/NEUR300   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of the interdisciplinary and
multidisciplinary nature of modern neuroscience, and the research
questions and experimental approaches used at the Lakeshore and
Medical Center campuses

--- Page 41 ---
72  College of Arts and Sciences
BIOL 304   Intro to Developmental Biology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 251   
The analysis of developmental processes such as; fertilization, embryonic
cleavage, cell determination and cell differentiation in selected species.
Emphasis will be on experiments that reveal how these processes are
controlled at the molecular and cellular levels.
Outcomes:
Students will become familiar with a wide range of developmental biology
principles and experimental approaches that led to important discoveries,
gain an appreciation of the scientiﬁc method, and learn about the goals of
modern developmental biology research
BIOL 307   Biology of Stem Cells   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 251 and BIOL 282   
Stem cell research represents an exciting area of biology. This course will
cover the early discoveries that launched the ﬁeld of stem cell biology, the
different types of stem cells that exist, potential therapeutic uses of stem
cells, and the ethical implications of these discoveries and therapies.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to read primary research articles, describe
different stem cell types and therapeutic uses, and consider the ethical
implications of stem cell research and therapies
BIOL 310   Categorical Data Analysis   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  STAT 203 or STAT 335   
An introduction to modern-day extensions of simple linear regression
and ANOVA to the chi-square test including logistic regression and log-
linear modelling techniques based on generalized linear models. Methods
for matched-pair, small datasets, ordinal and multi-category data also
discussed. This course focuses on applications using real-life data sets,
and uses popular software packages.
BIOL 313   Lab in Psychobiology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (BIOL/STAT 335 or PSYC 304) and (NEUR 101, PSYC/
BIOL 240, or PSYC 382/BIOL 284); OR for PSYC-BS and Cognitive/
Behavioral Neuroscience majors: PSYC 306 and (NEUR 101, PSYC/
BIOL 240, or PSYC 382/BIOL 284) Minimum grades of C-   
A 'hands on' experience with the instrumentation, measurement
techniques and experimental designs used in electrophysiological
studies of nervous system function. BIOL 313 is cross-listed with
PSYC 311.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Course equivalencies:  X-PSYC311/BIOL313   
BIOL 315   Introductory Immunology Lec/Lab   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 251 and BIOL 282   
The study of the nature and molecular basis of immune responses.
History and vocabulary of immunology; experiments involving immune
recognition and destruction; theories regarding self-tolerance and
immunological diseases.
Outcomes:
Students will learn the morphology and histology of the cells i nvolved in
an immune response, as well as how the cells develop and the molecular
mechanisms used to recognize and eliminate non-self material; Students
will become familiar with the evasion strategies of pathogens and the
consequences associated with either hyper or hypo-responsivenessBIOL 316   Limnology Lec/Lab   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 265 and CHEM 102 or CHEM 106 or CHEM 180   
An introduction to the structure and function of lake and stream
ecosystems. The course includes the integration of physical, chemical,
and biological parameters. Laboratories include weekend ﬁeld trips to
aquatic habitats.
Outcomes:
Students will learn methods of sampling and analyzing physical,
chemical and biological factors in lake and stream ecosystems, and how
to integrate these complex data sets to answer ecosystem process-level
questions; Students will learn to evaluate the trophic status and health of
a lake by the end of the course
BIOL 317   Models of Human Disease   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores approaches used to study human diseases from
in vitro to in vivo levels and examines their strengths and weaknesses.
Discussions will cover historical experiments and cutting-edge research
to learn about the techniques used to generate data and how to interpret
the results.
Outcomes:
Students will gain knowledge about human diseases and techniques
used to model aspects of those diseases in the laboratory
BIOL 318   General Virology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 251 & BIOL 282   
This course covers the molecular details of viral infection and the diverse
strategies used by these pathogens to invade cells and avoid immune
clearance. The focus will be on mammalian viruses of biomedical
relevance.
Course equivalencies:  BIOL 318 / BIOL 218   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate detailed understanding of basic viral
structure, basic viral replication/infection cycles, and speciﬁc examples
of viruses and their infection strategies
BIOL 319   Evolution   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 282; BIOL 265 recommended   
This course focuses on analysis of processes and patterns of evolution.
Topics include population genetic principles, fossil patterns and geologic
ages, phylogenetic analysis of relationships of species, experimental
approaches to evolutionary questions, and evolutionary perspectives on
human biology and relationships.
Outcomes:
Students will develop knowledge and awareness of evolutionary
processes and patterns, the evidence for them, and how evolutionary
hypotheses are tested experimentally; They will develop an appreciation
of the primary literature through reading and discussing research articles
BIOL 320   Animal Behavior   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 101 or ANTH 103; or BIOL 102 & BIOL 112   
This course examines the biological basis of animal behavior including
function and evolution of behavior patterns. Mechanisms and the
adaptive signiﬁcance of behaviors are examined and analyzed. BIOL 320
is cross-listed with ANTH 320.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH320/BIOL320/ESP 320   
Outcomes:
Students will have an understanding of both proximate and ultimate
causes of a broad array of behaviors in animals and their implications for
the life histories of those animals

--- Page 42 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 73
BIOL 321   Great Transitions in Vertebrate History   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 265   
The major vertebrate groups-ﬁsh, amphibians, reptiles, birds, and
mammals-arose through great transitions in size and form. These
transitions opened up previously inaccessible habitats for those groups
to radiate throughout, creating the remarkable diversity we observe
today. In this class, students will learn about the major transitions that
occurred in vertebrate history within the context of Earth's geological
history. Students will also learn about the adaptive changes in anatomy
and life history that have allowed those radiations to successfully radiate
in those habitats. Students will also learn about species whose unique
attributes allow them to occupy the most extreme habitats on earth, such
as the deep sea, arctic, and high elevation habitats.
Outcomes:
Learn the major radiations of vertebrates and their evolutionary
relationships, the general characteristics of the major organ systems in
those radiations, the major evolutionary transitions that occurred during
vertebrate history, and how changes in ecology, life history, and anatomy
change during organismal evolution
BIOL 323   Comparative Anatomy Lec/Lab   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 251, BIOL 282   
A study of homologous systems and vertebrate phylogeny in both lecture
and lab.
Outcomes:
Students will understand the evolutionary relationships and processes
that are involved in the development of vertebrate anatomy
BIOL 325   Primatology-Behavior & Ecology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 101 or any 100-level Biology course   
This course examines primate behavior and ecology from a comparative
and evolutionary perspective. Students will be introduced to the diversity
across taxonomic groups within the Order Primates. Through class
discussion and observation, students will explore key issues in primate
studies. Students will develop and apply skills in primate observation.
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH325/BIOL325/ESP 325   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to describe the taxonomic diversity of non-human
primates and explain the impact of biological, evolutionary, and ecological
factors on primate behavior
BIOL 326   Human Osteology Lec/Lab   (4 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on developing a deep understanding of the human
skeleton and ways in which biological anthropologists and forensic
anthropologists use this knowledge to explore human biological diversity.
Through hands-on exercises and class discussion, students will build
analytical skills that are foundational to many techniques used by
professionals and will appreciate the complex ethical considerations
inherent to the ﬁelds of biological and forensic anthropology. Pre-
requisites: BIOL 102 and BIOL 112; ANTH 101 or ANTH 103.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH326/BIOL326   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate superior knowledge of skeletal
anatomy, analyses of skeletal remains from archaeological contexts, and
apply current techniques designed to understand and explore human
variation, stature, ancestry, age-at-death, sex, and pathological conditionsBIOL 327   Wetland Ecology   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 265   
An introduction to the study of wetlands habitats. This course includes
discussion of physical and chemical factors, biota, production and
community dynamics. Laboratories include several ﬁeld trips to regional
wetland habitats.
Course equivalencies:  BIOL327/ESP 327   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the functioning of wetlands, become aw are of
the variety of wetlands and become familiar with wetland biota, especially
wetland plants
BIOL 328   Conservation Biology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 265   
This course explores species diversity, natural and human induced
extinctions, environmental ethics, and conservation practices being
developed at the population, community, and ecosystem levels.
Course equivalencies:  X-BIOL328/ESP 330   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to describe conservation strategies being used by
institutions around the world and understand the ecological theory that
supports those strategies
BIOL 329   Winter Ecology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 265 or permission of instructor   
The goal for Winter Ecology is to teach you about ecosystems in winter
by immersing you in the winter environment at LUREC during J-term.
Topics include the habitats on, in, and under snow, the morphological,
physiological, life cycle modiﬁcations of temperate plants, and the winter
adaptations of birds.
Course equivalencies:  X-ENVS 319/BIOL 329   
Outcomes:
Students will gain understanding of habitats and organisms present
during winter in temperate ecosystems and gain experience with ﬁeld
techniques employed when studying these ecosystems
BIOL 330   Global Change Biology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 265 or ENVS 280   
Human activities are changing our planet to such an extent that
scientists have proposed we are in a new geological epoch, the
'Anthropocene'. Through lectures, discussions, and group projects we will
examine key elements of global change including biodiversity loss, land-
use alterations, climate change, and pollution.
Outcomes:
Learn global element cycles that drive biological processes; Read,
critique, and discuss primary scientiﬁc literature
BIOL 335   Intro to Biostatistics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 102, MATH 132 or MATH 162 (as pre-requisite or co-
requisite) or MATH 162A; Students may take MATH 162 as a prerequisite
for STAT/BIOL 335 or take it concurrently as a corequisite with STAT/
BIOL 335; For Bioinformatics Majors: only BIOL 101, MATH 132 or
MATH 162 (as pre-requisite or co-requisite) or MATH 162A   
An introduction to statistical methods used in designing biological
experiments and in data analyses. Topics include probability and
sampling distribution, designed biological experiments and analysis of
variance, regression and correlation, stochastic processes, and frequency
distributions. Computer laboratory assignments with biological data.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Course equivalencies:  X-BIOL335/STAT335   

--- Page 43 ---
74  College of Arts and Sciences
BIOL 336   Advanced Biostatistics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  STAT 203 or STAT 335   
This course provides an overview of advanced topics in applied statistics
with particular application in biology and medicine, including the
interpretation of Minitab, SAS and S-Plus computer output.
Course equivalencies:  X-STAT336/BIOL336   
Outcomes:
Students interested in applied statistical methods will obtain skill in
experimental design, linear regression, categorical data analysis and
logistic analysis, nonlinear regression, bioassay and drug synergy
methods, as well as multivariate and survival statistical methods
BIOL 337   Quantitative Methods in Bioinformatics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  STAT 203 or STAT 335   
This course develops the mathematical and statistical methods
necessary to analyze and interpret genomic and proteomic data,
including signal analysis, sequence alignment methods, data-bas e search
methods useful in bioinformatics and data mining.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics   
Course equivalencies:  XSTAT337/BIOL337/BIOI337   
Outcomes:
Students will obtain the quantitative skills used in BLAST , including
inference, stochastic processes and hidden Markov models, random
walks, microarray analysis and biological sequence analysis
BIOL 340   Natural History of Belize   (3 Credit Hours)   
This Study Abroad ﬁeld course is designed to build on the foundations
learned in Ecology, Environmental Science, and Anthropology classes by
examining the biodiversity and tropical ecosystems of Belize, by exploring
the cultural traditions of some of its peoples, particularly the Mayans; and
learn how local communities are involved in protecting and sustaining
ecological and natural sites through community based conservation
and sustainability practices Enrollment Conditions: For Environmental
Science or Environmental Studies Majors/Minors: ENVS 137 For Biology
Majors/Minors: BIOL 102 & 112 For Anthropology or International Studies
Majors/Minors: Junior or Senior Standing
Course equivalencies:  X - ENVS 340 /BIOL 340   
Outcomes:
Provide a working understanding of the structure, function, and ecology
of tropical ecosystems; their importance to local communities; and the
social dimensions of environmental issues, especially those related to
justice
BIOL 341   Histology Lec/Lab   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 251 and BIOL 282   
This course examines the microscopic anatomy of the four basic adult
tissue types and how they are arranged and utilized in the construction of
the major vertebrate organ systems.
Outcomes:
The major learning objectives for this course are (1) to become familiar
with the gross and microscopic anatomy of cells, tissues and organs and
(2) to understand how these anatomical features correlate with speciﬁc
physiological functions
BIOL 342   Human Anatomy   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 242, BIOL 243, BIOL 251, BIOL 282; CHEM 222 or
CHEM 224 or (CHEM 240 pre-req and CHEM 260 co-req)   
A mixed lecture and laboratory course providing an in-depth look at the
human body at the level of gross anatomy.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Students will acquire an advanced understanding of the structure and
relationships of major organ systems in the human bodyBIOL 344   Microbial Evolution and Human Well-being   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 282   
The course explores the many ways, both positive and negative, that the
evolution of bacteria, viruses, and other microbes affects humans. Topics
include infectious disease, the human microbiome, food production, and
environmental microbes. The course is centered around reading and
analyzing primary literature.
Outcomes:
Students will apply fundamental evolutionary principles to microbes,
understand the broad relevance of microbial evolution to human life, and
read and communicate about primary literature on the topic
BIOL 346   Biology of Women   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the anatomy and physiology of women at
different and critical times in their life span. This course also addresses
social issues that effect women at different points in their life. Topics
include the evolution of sex, gender differentiation, and reproduction.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  BIOL346/WOST346/ANTH346/WSGS   
Outcomes:
Students will learn about the biology of the female system, and how it
changes with age; Students will also learn through discussions and guest
lectures the interplay between society, medicine and gender
BIOL 347   Bird Conservation and Ecology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 137 or BIOL 102   
This engaged-learning course provides an introduction to the theory
and practice of avian conservation, ecology and management. Field
trips for viewing birds in the wild, observing behavior and collecting
data on habitat assessments are highlighted. Students participate in
a community service project to gather data for avian conservation and
management.
Course equivalencies:  X-ENVS 267/BIOL 347   
Outcomes:
Students will become skilled in critical reasoning and some bird
monitoring techniques, and demonstrate an understanding of the many
facets of bird conservation
BIOL 348   Field Ornithology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 280 & ENVS 286 or BIOL 265 & BIOL 266 (BIOL 215
recommended but not required)   
Field ornithology is an intensive 3-week engaged-learning course at the
Loyola University Retreat and Ecology Campus during the peak of the
migratory season intended to provide an introduction to the theory and
practice of ﬁeld ornithology. Emphasis will be on ﬁeld identiﬁcation and
song recognition, census techniques, and avian behavior.
Course equivalencies:  X- ENVS 369/BIOL 348   
Outcomes:
Students will become skilled in critical reasoning, ﬁeld techniques, and
scientiﬁc investigation that demonstrate an understanding of knowledge
and techniques used in ﬁeld ornithology

--- Page 44 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 75
BIOL 349   Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical Ecosystems   (3
Credit Hours)   
This course provides an introduction to conservation ecology in
Neotropical ecosystems via classroom sessions and experiential learning
activities during a Spring-Break ﬁeld trip to Belize. Students will gain
experience in environmental monitoring and biological survey methods.
Ecosystems studied: coral reefs, mangrove forests, subtropical rain
and dry forests, savannas, rivers, wetlands. Enrollment Conditions: For
Biology Majors/Minors: BIOL 265; For Environmental Science Majors:
ENVS 280
Course equivalencies:  X- ENVS 345/ BIOL 349   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of tropical climates, neotropical
terrestrial/aquatic ecosystems and applied conservation and
environmental practices such as nature reserve design and management,
community-based resource management, ecotourism, and ecoagriculture
BIOL 350   Vertebrate Physiology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 251, BIOL 282, and (CHEM 180 or CHEM 102 or
CHEM 106)   
This is an introduction to the physiology of marine, freshwater, and
terrestrial vertebrates. Understanding how physiological concepts
are manifested by animals facing different environmental challenges
is emphasized. Topics to be covered include metabolism and energy
balance, nervous and endocrine function, respiration, circulation, water
balance and ionic regulation, and excretion.
Outcomes:
Compare and contrast how various vertebrates utilize major organ
systems to maintain homeostasis; Describe how common physiological
principles are manifested through vertebrates' adaptation to their
environments
BIOL 351   Sleep/Circadian Rhythms   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 251, BIOL 282, NEUR 101   
We will cover circadian rhythms one very prominent circadian-regulated
behavior: sleep. We will investigate these topics at several different
levels, spanning from cellular and molecular mechanisms to systems
and behavioral approaches, and ﬁnally will look at pathologies of these
systems that lead to human disorders.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Outcomes:
Students will become familiar with a variety of model systems used to
study circadian rhythms, and learn how to critically read primary literature
and lead discussions of this reading
BIOL 352   Neurobiology of Feeding in Health and Disease   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  NEUR 101, BIOL 251   
Multiple interconnecting systems, coupling the brain with the rest
of the body, signal the need to consume food and when to stop. The
overall aim of the course is to understand what drives us to eat and how
dysregulation within these brain circuits underlies the contemporary
obesity crisis.
Outcomes:
By completing this course, students will achieve an advanced
understanding of the fundamental principles that govern the brain's
control of energy homeostasisBIOL 353   Natural History of Vertebrates   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 265   
The objective of the course is to provide an in-depth study of the
vertebrates in the Midwestern U.S. Topics will include the origin and
evolution of vertebrates, and their ecology, behavior and specializations.
The lab will focus on identiﬁcation of vertebrate taxa and learning wildlife
sampling techniques.
Outcomes:
Understand speciﬁcs of ecology, behavior, life history, evolution and
conservation of all vertebrate taxa; Read, analyze, interpret, and discuss
peer-reviewed literature
BIOL 354   Mammalian Reproduction   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 251   
Anatomy and physiology of male and female reproductive systems,
fertilization, implantation, pregnancy, and birth; immunological aspects of
reproduction.
Outcomes:
Students will understand structure/function relationships in reproductive
biology and how reproductive systems are regulated at cellular levels
BIOL 355   Parasitology Lec/Lab   (4 Credit Hours)   
A study of animal parasites, their distribution, structure, adaptations, life
cycles, and host relationships.
Outcomes:
Students will learn to recognize the major groups of animal parasites, be
able to explain their life cycles and describe the mechanisms that hosts
use to ward off parasite infestation
BIOL 356   The Evolution of Animal Sex   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 251 and BIOL 282   
Among animals, sex cannot be simpliﬁed down to X's and Y's, or even
males and females. Sex is diverse and dynamic. The class will discuss
modern research around three themes: 1) sexual differentiation, 2) animal
weapons and ornaments, and 3) reproduction and mating systems.
Outcomes:
Students will gain a deeper appreciation of the sexual diversity among
animals at genetic, physiological, morphological and behavioral levels
BIOL 357   Neural Disease, Degeneration, and Regeneration   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 251, BIOL 282, NEUR 101   
This course offers an overview of cellular and molecular mechanisms
underlying common neurodegenerative disorders. Mechanisms of
neuronal cell death and application of stem cells in CNS regeneration
will also be covered. Students will learn by reading assigned background
materials and research articles, and participating in class discussions.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Outcomes:
Students will understand current advances of genetic, developmental,
molecular, and cellular mechanisms underlying the neurodegenerative
diseases; Students will also learn how disease mechanisms affect neural
function, cognition, and behavior

--- Page 45 ---
76  College of Arts and Sciences
BIOL 358   Developmental Neurobiology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 251, BIOL 282, NEUR 101   
This course focuses on cellular and molecular underpinnings of the
development of neuronal features of the nervous system. Topics include
neural induction and subsequent differentiation events, regulation of
neuronal survival, axon guidance, target selection, and synaptogenesis.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Outcomes:
Students will become familiar with principles of neural development and
the studies that led to those principles; Students will also learn how to
critically read primary research papers and present these papers to the
class
BIOL 359   Paleopathology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 251 and ANTH 326 or BIOL 326   
Normal bone tissue and normal bone alterations and the impact of
various disease processes on skeletal tissue. Students will be taught to
assess and interpret patterns of human disease in processual rather than
typological terms.
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH359/BIOL359   
Outcomes:
Students will have command of biological anthropological approaches
towards the understanding of human disease and will be familiar with
theoretical issues germane to the ﬁeld of paleopathology, biases and
ethical issues, and the role that disease has played throughout human
history
BIOL 360   Field Biology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 265 and permission of chair   
Ecological study of an area in North America outside Midwest. Includes a
ﬁeld trip to a speciﬁc region. Trip is at student expense. "
Outcomes:
Students will become familiar with an ecosystem outside the Chicago
Region; gain a ﬁrst-hand understanding of the interrelationships of
living things and their environment; develop a loving appreciation of
"wilderness
BIOL 362   Neurobiology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  NEUR 101 and BIOL 251   
The purpose of this course is to introduce major principles and concepts
of modern neurobiology. An emphasis is placed upon an understanding
of the electrophysiology of the neuron and the manner in which groups
of neurons are organized into functional nervous systems subserving
sensory, motor or integrative functions.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Outcomes:
Student will gain a sold foundation in nervous system structure and
function
BIOL 363   Entomology Lec/Lab   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 265   
An introductory course that covers the morphology, metamorphosis,
classiﬁcation and biology of the major insect groups. The laboratory
includes dissection and the use of analytical keys and ﬁgures to identify
insect taxa. Field trips and student collections add to the lab oratory
experience.
Outcomes:
Students will learn to identify major insect groups in the ﬁeld and in the
laboratory; They will also learn to distinguish immature insects from adult
insects and to recognize the numerous beneﬁcial insects as well as the
small number that are detrimentalBIOL 365   Writing a Scientiﬁc Manuscript   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 102, BIOL 112   
A Process from Data Collection to Writing a Scientiﬁc Manuscript. This
course is designed for upper level students interested in practicing the
scientiﬁc process; including hypothesis construction, experimental
design, data collection, and writing of a scientiﬁc paper detailing
Introduction, Methods, Results and Discussion.
Outcomes:
Students would learn to develop hypotheses, design experiments based
on those hypotheses, analyze data, and learn to construct and peer-
review a scientiﬁc manuscript
BIOL 366   Cell Physiology & Biochemistry   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Bioinformatics majors: CHEM 224 or CHEM 222 or
(CHEM 240 pre-req and CHEM 260 co-req); All other majors: BIOL 251 &
CHEM 224 or CHEM 222 or (CHEM 240 pre-req and CHEM 260 co-req)   
An introduction to biochemical principles as they relate to major
biological themes such as the relationship between cellular structure and
function, metabolism, thermodynamics, regulation, information pathways,
and evolution. BIOL 366 is cross-listed with CHEM 361.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Course equivalencies:  X-BIOL366/BIOI366/CHEM361   
Outcomes:
Students will study the basic concepts of biochemistry and will
understand how thermodynamics govern biochemical processes;
Catalytic strategies, as well as the major pathways of both anabolism and
catabolism, will also be learned
BIOL 366L   Cell Physiology & Biochemistry Lab   (3 Credit Hours)   
Introduction to modern techniques and instrumentation with an
emphasis on cellular metabolism and protein biochemistry including
puriﬁcation and quantitation methods and enzyme kinetics.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Proﬁciency in performing a variety of biochemical assays and the ability
to write up results as a formal lab report
BIOL 367   Bioimaging   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 251 and BIOL 282; PHYS 112 or PHYS 114; Instructor
Permission   
This course focuses on light microscopy but also includes a section on
Electron Microscopy. Topics include basic optical theory, history, sample
preparation, microscope operation, digital image acquisition and analysis.
Outcomes:
Students will become adept at producing publication quality images
using a variety of imaging techniques; Students will also learn how to
correctly interpret results and properly present their data
BIOL 368   Plant Ecology Lec/Lab   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 265   
Focuses on plant population dynamics; plant-animal interactions,
including herbivory, pollination, dispersal; plant community dynamics,
such as the processes of succession; and the effect of global climate
on the distribution of major vegetation types. The laboratory is divided
between weekend ﬁeld trips to local forests, prairies and bogs, and
laboratory studies.
Outcomes:
Students will achieve familiarity with major vegetation types and
especially with local vegetation and natural areas; understand the
dynamics of plant communities; understand the nature of research in
plant ecology and gain familiarity with the primary literature; understand
environmental issues as they relate to plant ecology

--- Page 46 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 77
BIOL 369   Invertebrate Biology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Broad survey of invertebrates including morphology, physiology, ecology,
evolution, and systematics.
BIOL 370   Ichthyology Lec/Lab   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 265   
Lecture and laboratory and/or ﬁeld trips. Systematics, phylogeny,
anatomy, physiology, behavior, functional morphology and ecology of
ﬁshes. Includes ﬁeld collecting trips in Lake Michigan and local streams
and lakes and individual projects/research papers.
Outcomes:
Students will develop a detailed understanding of a range of topics in ﬁsh
biology, with special emphasis on evolutionary relationships
BIOL 373   Laboratory in Neuroscience I   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  NEUR 101, BIOL 251; and students must be either
a Molecular/Cellular Neuroscience Major, a Cognitive/Behavioral
Neuroscience major, or a Neuroscience Minor   
Students will be trained in various anatomical, physiological, behavioral,
and neurobiological modeling techniques used to study the nervous
system and the brain in the laboratory. This course is cross-listed as
NEUR 301 & PSYC 388.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Course equivalencies:  X-NEUR301/PSYC388/BIOL373   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of several research designs and
methodologies of use in neuroscience research and will gain experience
with basic neuroscience laboratory techniques
BIOL 375   Aquatic Insects Lecture & Laboratory   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 265   
This course focuses on the classiﬁcation and ecology of insects that
have become fully or partially adapted to the aquatic environment.
Emphasis will be on the ecology and biology (behavior, physiology and
phylogeny) of aquatic insects. The course includes laboratory ﬁeld trips
to local and upper Midwest aquatic habitats.
Outcomes:
Students will acquire an understanding of the ecological relationships
between aquatic insects and their physical and biological environment,
including their interactions with humans
BIOL 376   Seminar in Molecular/Cellular Neuroscience   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 282 and BIOL 362   
This lecture/discussion will span synaptic plasticity, modern approaches
to studying neural circuits, and the therapeutic potential of neural stem
cells. Students become familiar with principles of molecular/cellular
approaches to the study of the nervous system through review articles
and the primary literature.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Outcomes:
Students will become familiar with principles of molecular/cellular
approaches to the study of the nervous system; Students will also learn
how to evaluate primary literature
BIOL 377   Molecular Pathogenesis   (3 Credit Hours)   
Introduction to the molecular mechanisms of disease pathology and
therapeutic and control strategies, using a particular disease as model.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to explain the molecular basis for particular disease
symptoms, understand therapeutic strategies, and use experimental
results to form conclusions about disease molecular mechanismsBIOL 378   Dental Anthropology   (0 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 101 or any 100-level Biology course   
This course examines teeth with an anthropological perspective. By using
evolution by natural selection as our theoretical framework, students will
learn dental anatomy, morphology, and variation. The course then focuses
on embryology, dental development and eruption, and the biocultural
ways humans use their teeth.
Course equivalencies:  X- ANTH 327/BIOL 378   
Outcomes:
Students will gain factual knowledge of teeth from an evolutionary
perspective and will develop speciﬁc hands-on skills needed by dental
anthropologists, dentists, and oral biologists including dental molding,
casting, and wear scoring
BIOL 378B   Biological Topics for Bioethics Minor Capstone   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Two prior science courses and two prior ethics courses
required   
The interdisciplinary team-taught Bioethics capstone course examines
a topic in bioethics from both scientiﬁc and ethical points of view.
Topics may include bio-technologies, concepts of race and gender, the
environment, reproduction, and others. This course number provides
an elective for Biology students when the Bioethics capstone's topic is
biological.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the connection between ethical and biological
issues with regard to the special topic in biology
BIOL 379B   Biological Topics for Bioethics Minor Capstone   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Two prior science courses and two prior ethics courses   
The interdisciplinary team-taught Bioethics capstone course examines
a topic in bioethics from both scientiﬁc and ethical points of view.
Topics may include biotechnologies, concepts of race and gender, the
environment, reproduction, and others. This course number provides
an elective for Biology students when the Bioethics capstone's topic is
biological.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the connection between ethical and biological
issues with regard to the special topic in biology
BIOL 380   Genetics and Evolution of Development   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores the evolution of the embryo and the patterns of
gene regulation and morphogenesis that drive early development. Topics
include evolution of nervous system patterning, shared human, mouse
and frog regulatory systems and evolution of human genetic syndromes.
Outcomes:
Students will master the stages and regulation of development in a
number of organisms through use of primary literature; Evidence of
their mastery will be seen through grant writing exercises, in class
presentations and conventional exams

--- Page 47 ---
78  College of Arts and Sciences
BIOL 381   Epigenetics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 251 and BIOL 282; CHEM 222 or CHEM 224 or
(CHEM 240 pre-req and CHEM 260 co-req)   
This course will introduce students to epigenetic mechanisms operating
throughout life, which include chromatin regulation, DNA methylation,
histone modiﬁcations and non-coding RNAs. Students will gain an
appreciation of how different cell types can maintain drastically different
gene expression patterns yet share the exact same DNA sequences.
Outcomes:
Students will understand epigenetic mechanisms, apply insights gained
to evaluate the effect of epigenetic changes in development, disease and
aging, and learn how to lead a class discussion
BIOL 382   Molecular Genetics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 251 and 282; CHEM 222 or CHEM 224 or (CHEM 240
pre-req and CHEM 260 co-req)   
This course covers the molecular details of genetic processes such as
DNA replication, RNA and protein synthesis, gene regulation and genome
organization.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate a detailed understanding of (1)
basic molecular techniques, (2) the macromolecules involved in genetic
processes, and (3) published experiments that underlie our knowledge of
these processes
BIOL 383   Population Genetics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 282 and MATH 132 or MATH 162; BIOL 235 is
recommended   
Fundamental principles of population, ecological, and evolutionary
genetics, including molecular evolution and analysis of the genetic
structure of populations.
Outcomes:
Students develop knowledge and awareness of population genetic
theory and information; They learn how to apply basic tools of population
genetic analysis
BIOL 384   Microbial Pathogenesis of Infectious Disease   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 251 (Cell Biology) and BIOL 282 (Genetics) each with
a C or higher   
The course is focused on teaching students the way bacteria, viruses,
fungi, and pathogens, can adhere, invade, replicate, and cause damage
and disease in their hosts. The course focuses on the technique s used by
researchers to ask questions about these processes.
Outcomes:
Students will understand the ways pathogens cause disease, read and
review primary literature, and apply techniques used in a grant proposal
on a topic of their interest
BIOL 385   Prin Electron Microscopy Lec/Lab   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Permission of instructor, BIOL 341 recommended   
This course focuses on the various areas of Electron Microscopy,
both Scanning and Transmission. Topics include sample preparation,
microscope operation, image acquisition using photographic and digital
techniques, history and development, and new and special techniques.
Outcomes:
Student will become adept with the various techniques needed to
produce research quality electron micrographs; Students will also learn
how to correctly interpret their results, and properly present their dataBIOL 386   Human Genetics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 282   
Students will learn the foundations of human complex trait genetics in
this course-based undergraduate research experience. They will analyze
and discuss primary literature in human genetics, understand how our
genes do and do not influence human differences, apply software tools
used in the ﬁeld, and gain experience in oral and written presentation of
research.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Learn the foundations of human complex trait genetics; Analyze and
discuss primary literature in human genetics; Begin applying the scripting
and software tools used in the ﬁeld; Design, implement, and evaluate a
guided genome-wide analysis of a human phenotype; Gain experience in
oral and written presentations of research
BIOL 387   Genomics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Genomics is the compilation, characterization, and evaluation of DNA
sequence information and its integration with established methods and
genetic knowledge. This course will introduce the students to the study
of genome structure and function and its application to biomedicine,
agriculture, and evolution.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics   
Course equivalencies:  X-BIOL387/BIOI387   
Outcomes:
Students will acquire an in-depth knowledge of the nature of gene and
genome structure, function, and evolution as well as the methods used
to obtain and evaluate this knowledge; Students will be able to create
meaningful web-based database search strategies and interpret the
signiﬁcance of results
BIOL 388   Bioinformatics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students will engage in the applications of computer-based tools and
database searching to better understand the ﬁelds of genetics, genomics,
evolutionary biology, and personalized medicine. Students will be
introduced to scripting programming languages for analyzing biological
data sets.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics   
Course equivalencies:  X-BIOL388/COMP381/BIOI388   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to appropriately use computer software and
databases to accurately analyze biological data and interpret the results,
applying their understanding of genetic processes
BIOL 389   Introduction to Pharmacology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 243, BIOL 251, BIOL 282; CHEM 222 or CHEM 224 or
(CHEM 240 pre-req & CHEM 260 co-req)   
Principles and mechanisms of drug action. Topics discussed include
drug-receptor interaction, pharmacokinetics, drug distribution,
metabolism, and neuro-transmission, blood-brain barrier, and toxicology.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to describe the cellular and molecular mechanisms
of action for a variety of the most commonly used drugs in current
medical use

--- Page 48 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 79
BIOL 390   Molecular Biology Laboratory   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Bioinformatics majors: BIOL 282 & BIOL 283 and CHEM 222
or CHEM 224 or (CHEM 240 pre-req and CHEM 260 co-req); All other
majors: BIOL 251, BIOL 282, BIOL 283 and CHEM 222 or CHEM 224 or
(CHEM 240 pre-req and CHEM 260 co-req)   
This course is an intensive laboratory course in the basic principles and
techniques of molecular biology, including bacterial cloning, polymerase
chain reaction, restriction mapping, agarose gel electrophoresis, and DNA
sequencing.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics, Neuroscience   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  X-BIOL390/BIOI390   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate basic molecular biology skills
including manipulation of bacterial cultures and DNA, plasmid minipreps,
gel electrophoresis, cloning, polymerase chain reaction, and other
molecular techniques that may be speciﬁc to their chosen independent
projects
BIOL 391   Forensic Molecular Biology Lecture and Lab   (5 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 282, BIOL 283 & FRSC-BS Major   
This course prepares students to work in forensic DNA analysis. The
lectures cover the basic aspects of DNA structure and function while
the laboratory gives students experience with the techniques and
instruments used in forensic DNA analysis.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Course equivalencies:  BIOL 391/FRSC 371   
Outcomes:
Students will have a strong theoretical understanding of STR marker
origin, population biology, and legal uses, and will be able to isolate and
process DNA for STR scoring
BIOL 392   Metagenomics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 282   
Exploration of next-generation sequencing technologies for assessing
microbial diversity in ecological niches.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will gain hands-on experience with metagenomic
methodologies while working in an interdisciplinary, collaborative setting
BIOL 394   Special Topics in Biology Laboratory   (1-4 Credit Hours)   
Laboratory. Special areas of study outside the usual curriculum, that vary
each time the course is offered.
Outcomes:
Students will master a unique topic in biology
BIOL 394E   Special Topics in Biology Laboratory (Ecology Emph)   (1-4
Credit Hours)   
Laboratory. Special areas of study related to ecology outside the usual
curriculum, that vary each time the course is offered.
Outcomes:
Students will master a unique topic in biology related to ecology
BIOL 394M   Special Topics in Biology Laboratory (Molecular Emph)   (1-4
Credit Hours)   
Laboratory. Special areas of study related to molecular biology outside
the usual curriculum, that vary each time the course is offered.
Outcomes:
Students will master a unique topic in biology related to molecular
biologyBIOL 395   Special Topics in Biology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Special areas of study outside the usual curriculum, that vary each time
the course is offered.
Outcomes:
Students will master a unique topic in biology
BIOL 395E   Special Topics in Biology (Ecology Emph)   (3 Credit Hours)   
Special areas of study related to ecology outside the usual curriculum,
that vary each time the course is offered.
Outcomes:
Students will master a unique topic in biology related to ecology
BIOL 395L   Special Topics Laboratory   (1-4 Credit Hours)   
Laboratory. Special areas of study outside the usual curriculum, that vary
each time the course is offered.
Outcomes:
Students will master a unique topic in biology
BIOL 395M   Special Topics in Biology (Molecular Emph)   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Special areas of study related to molecular biology outside the usual
curriculum, that vary each time the course is offered.
Outcomes:
Students will master a unique topic in biology related to molecular
biology
BIOL 396   Research   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 296 (minimum 1 credit), Permission of Instructor;
Contract Required   
Laboratory or ﬁeld research under faculty guidance emphasizing
hypothesis testing, literature searches, experimental design, and use of
appropriate techniques.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  BIOL299/BIOL396   
Outcomes:
Students will learn the full set of research skills required in doing an
independent project and reporting the results
BIOL 396E   Research (Ecology Emph)   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 296 (minimum 1 credit), Permission of Instructor;
Contract Required   
Laboratory or ﬁeld research related to ecology under faculty guidance
emphasizing hypothesis testing, literature searches, experimental design,
and use of appropriate techniques.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will learn the full set of research skills required in doing an
independent project related to ecology and reporting the results
BIOL 396M   Research (Molecular Emph)   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 296 (minimum 1 credit), Permission of Instructor;
Contract Required   
Laboratory or ﬁeld research related to molecular biology under
faculty guidance emphasizing hypothesis testing, literature searches,
experimental design, and use of appropriate techniques.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will learn the full set of research skills required in doing an
independent project related to molecular biology and reporting the results

--- Page 49 ---
80  College of Arts and Sciences
BIOL 397   Course-Based Undergraduate Research Experience in
Biology   (1-4 Credit Hours)   
Laboratory. Special areas of study outside the usual curriculum, that vary
each time the course is offered. Students will be working on research
contributing to current scientiﬁc questions in the noted special topic
area.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  Biol 397H /Biol 397   
Outcomes:
Students will plan and execute appropriate experimental or observational
methods, and evaluate the results to address a research question or
explore a biological phenomenon; Students will review the scientiﬁc
literature, and then use the appropriate language and style to
communicate their ﬁndings effectively to targeted audiences
BIOL 397E   Course-based Undergraduate Research Experience in Biology
(Ecology Emph)   (1-4 Credit Hours)   
Laboratory. Special areas of study outside the usual curriculum related
to ecology, that vary each time the course is offered. Students will be
working on research contributing to current scientiﬁc questions in the
noted special topic area.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will plan and execute appropriate experimental or observational
methods, and evaluate the results to address a research question or
explore a biological phenomenon related to ecology; Students will review
the scientiﬁc literature, and then use the appropriate language and style
to communicate their ﬁndings effectively to targeted audiences
BIOL 397M   Course-based Undergraduate Research Experience in Biology
(Molecular Emph)   (1-4 Credit Hours)   
Laboratory. Special areas of study outside the usual curriculum related to
molecular biology, that vary each time the course is offered. Students will
be working on research contributing to current scientiﬁc questions in the
noted special topic area.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will plan and execute appropriate experimental or observational
methods, and evaluate the results to address a research question or
explore a biological phenomenon related to molecular biology; Students
will review the scientiﬁc literature, and then use the appropriate language
and style to communicate their ﬁndings effectively to targeted audiences
BIOL 398   Internship in Biology   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Permission of Instructor; Contract required   
A supervised ﬁeld placement intended to give students training or work
experience in aspects of biology that cannot be obtained on campus.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will acquire practical experience in biology-related job settings
BIOL 398E   Internship in Biology (Ecology Emph)   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Permission of Instructor; Contract required   
A supervised ﬁeld placement intended to give students training or work
experience in aspects of biology related to ecology that cannot be
obtained on campus.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will acquire practical experience in ecology-related job settingsBIOL 398M   Internship in Biology (Molecular Emph)   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Permission of Instructor; Contract required   
A supervised ﬁeld placement intended to give students training or work
experience in aspects of biology related to molecular biology that cannot
be obtained on campus.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will acquire practical experience in molecular biology-related job
settings
BIOL 399   Individual Study   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Directed study of a speciﬁc topic by an individual student studying with a
single faculty member.
Outcomes:
Students will master a unique topic in biology
BIOL 399E   Individual Study (Ecology Emph)   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Directed study of a speciﬁc topic related to ecology by an individual
student studying with a single faculty member.
Outcomes:
Students will master a unique topic in biology related to ecology
BIOL 399M   Individual Study (Molecular Emph)   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Directed study of a speciﬁc topic related to molecular biology by an
individual student studying with a single faculty member.
Outcomes:
Students will master a unique topic in biology related to molecular
biology
Catholic Studies (CATH)
CATH 100   Introductory Topics in Catholic Studies   (3-6 Credit Hours)   
Introductory level course for topics cross-listed with other courses
that focus on areas of Catholic studies but are not included among the
courses listed in the Catholic Studies Program.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will master a topic in Catholic Studies not addressed in other
courses
CATH 101   Evolution Western Ideas & Institutions to the 17th Century   (3
Credit Hours)   
This course traces the early development of Western civilization from the
ancient Near East; Greece and Rome; the medieval civilization(s); to the
European Renaissance and Reformation.
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST101/CATH101/ACHIS101   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of history as a discipline; be able
to place Judaism, Christianity, and Islam in historical context; explain
the expansion of the West; and develop their critical thinking and
communications skills
CATH 101D   Development of Western Thought Honors Discussion   (3
Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Catholic Studies students must be enrolled in the
Honors Program and must be completing the ﬁrst section of the course
HONR 101 (cross-listed with CATH 102)   
This course is the second half of the Freshmen Honors program protocol
of HONR 101, where students receive 6 credit hours for intensive reading,
lectures, and discussion groups with professors.
Course equivalencies:  X-HONRD101/CATH101D   

--- Page 50 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 81
CATH 102   Western Traditions Honors-Antiquity to Middle Ages   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course is restricted to Catholic Studies Minors enrolled in the Honors
Program. This foundational course in the history of Western culture from
antiquity to the Middle Ages discusses such writers ranging from Homer
all the way to Augustine. Students will pose questions and comments
about some of the ideas and texts that helped shaped Western culture,
including many that come out of the western Christian tradition.
Course equivalencies:  X-HONR10/CATH102   
CATH 104   Jesus Christ   (3 Credit Hours)   
The study of the person of Jesus Christ.
Course equivalencies:  THEO104/CATH104   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the nature of
Jesus Christ as both human and divine, what this might mean, how this
formulation was derived, and the varieties of understanding of Christ
within the Scriptures, the church, and modern scholarship
CATH 105   The Church in the World   (3 Credit Hours)   
How does Christian Theology inform how Christians act in the world?
This is the central question that we will seek to answer throughout this
course. Examining the intersection between theoretical and practical
theology, we will explore the Church's engagement in the world at large,
both in global cultures and political movements. Each class will focus
on the sources of Christian doctrine, Biblical and Traditional, with an
emphasis on Catholic teaching since Vatican II and on the lived reality
of these teachings in a variety of historical and geographical contexts.
Using contemporary examples of global issues, we will explore the
practicality and potential beneﬁts and drawbacks of doing theology in the
public sphere.
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO105/CATH105   
CATH 106   Theology of The Sacraments   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course studies the realities of Christian faith life as expressed in the
concrete rituals of Christian communities. Sacraments are more than
just mechanical ways in which to experience God in Christian liturgy
- deﬁned traditionally as "visible signs of invisible realities. " Certainly,
the seven sacraments of the Catholic tradition perform the central
mysteries of God's gracious self communication; however, as importantly,
they also introduce and articulate a way of interpreting reality. This
course will not only examine the historical development, central beliefs
and communal practices of the sacraments, but will also explore the
"sacramental principle" as a way to illuminate the theological dynamics
that are such an essential component of Catholic liturgy and Christian
spirituality. Students will investigate the nature of the sacramental
system in Catholic worship, identify the key concepts of "sacramentality"
and explore the religious practices that are part of the living tradition
of sacramental theology. Finally, students will explore how, in the end,
the sacramental principle affects everything and cannot be contained.
Sacramentality is a way of being, an "eventing" that reminds us how
dynamic and transcendent (as opposed to static and insulated) l ife is. So,
we will follow the clues where they lead and assess current relationships
among sacramental theology, liturgy, artistic reflection, cross-cultural
expression, and daily life.
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO265/CATH106   
CATH 112   New Testament   (3 Credit Hours)   
The study of the New Testament.
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO112/CATH112   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the various literary
genres found in the New TestamentCATH 179   Roman Catholicism   (3 Credit Hours)   
James Joyce famously called Roman Catholicism the "Here comes
everybody" tradition, offering an apt description for a faith community
made up of both sinners and saints, martyrs and missionaries, defenders
and detractors all. This course on Roman Catholicism begins from
the assumption that it is fundamentally a tradition of paradox, which
establishes constancy through change and ﬁrmness through fluidity.
Students will explore Roman Catholicism less as a set of deﬁnite beliefs
and moral precepts, and more as a world-shaping perspective that forms
Catholics to see and to be in distinctive ways. Finally, the course will
address head-on a range of serious challenges confronting Roman
Catholicism today, including widespread disafﬁliation, clergy abuse,
Magisterial teaching on gender and sexuality, women's ordination, and
racism and anti-Judaism in the tradition.
Course equivalencies:  THEO179/THEO279/CATH179   
CATH 181   Christianity Through Time   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will introduce you to the history and missionary movements
of the Christian religion, from the early church to the present day. While
the course is set up thematically in chronological order, you will read case
studies based on primary sources, social history, and material culture that
will give you an overview of Christian revelation, theological differences,
community and controversies, circulation of ideas and counter-ideas,
missionary tactics, power struggles, and people's experiences in ecclesial
(liturgy and sacrament), para ecclesial, and personal ways. You will also
visit the Art Institute of Chicago and the Newberry Library to see objects
and manuscripts from the Christian tradition. The story this course
seeks to reveal is how the Christian religion has deﬁned the relationship
between the divine and the human world.
Course equivalencies:  THEO181/ THEO281/CATH181   
CATH 193   Christian Marriage   (3 Credit Hours)   
Examination of the historical development of marriage within the
Christian tradition as well as an investigation and evaluation of its
condition in contemporary American society.
Course equivalencies:  THEO193/THEO293/CATH193   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of ethical principles
used to evaluate particular issues relevant to the understanding of the
Christian tradition of marriage
CATH 200   Intermediate Topics in Catholic Studies   (3-6 Credit Hours)   
Intermediate level course for topics cross-listed with courses that focus
on areas with Catholic studies but are not included among the courses
listed in the Catholic Studies Program.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will master a topic in Catholic Studies not addressed in other
courses
CATH 255   Music in Catholic Worship   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will explore the relationship between music and the liturgies
of the Roman Catholic Church. Theologies of liturgical music will be
compared and contrasted using the ofﬁcial documents of the Church,
theological perspectives and from pastoral experience.
Course equivalencies:  X-MUSC255/CATH255   
Outcomes:
For students seeking greater knowledge of sacred music, they will be
introduced and become familiar with different styles of music, reflect
upon and access the application and performance of sacred works
within the course as well as in onsite experiences in Catholic parishes in
Chicago

--- Page 51 ---
82  College of Arts and Sciences
CATH 278   Medieval Culture   (3 Credit Hours)   
Europe in the Early Middle Ages was an unstable world, with its
collapsing imperial framework, migrating peoples, contrary cultures,
insecure economic structures and clashing political strategies. From that
a new balance was struck, through the blending of Roman, Germanic,
Celtic and Christian orders, and a Medieval Synthesis was forged. The
readings emphasize primary sources and their interpretation while
modern secondary sources will further inform our exploration into the
phenomenon of cultural synthesis and its place in history.
Course equivalencies:  X-ENGL279/CATH278/MSTU304   
CATH 296   All Things Ignatian: Living and Learning in the Jesuit Trad   (3
Credit Hours)   
This course explores the founder of the Jesuits, St. Ignatius Loyola
and considers his historical context and that of the Jesuits from
Renaissance Europe to today. Second, the course will introduce "The
Spiritual Exercises, " a highly reﬁned and adaptable method of prayer,
contemplation and action. Finally, the course will examine Ignatian
spirituality as a practical resource for addressing critical issues in the
Church and world today. Identify and explain the chief characteristics and
major themes of Ignatian spirituality. Locate, analyze, and demonstrate
Jesuit apostolate of scholarship and teaching; identify the global
contribution to education, particularly to university life. Experience direct
service.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  X-CATH 296/THEO 296   
Outcomes:
Describe the life and history of Ignatius of Loyola and the Society of
Jesus
CATH 297   The Jesuits: Life and History   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the history of the Society of Jesus from its
founding by Ignatius Loyola in the 16th century to its activities in the
contemporary world.
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST297/CATH297   
Outcomes:
Students will gain a sense of the characteristics of Jesuit spirituality and
the contribution of Jesuits to various ﬁelds of human endeavor such as
evangelization, education, politics, literature, and the visual arts
CATH 300   Advanced Topics in Catholic Studies   (3-6 Credit Hours)   
Advanced level course for topics cross-listed with courses that focus on
areas with Catholic studies but are not included among the courses listed
in the Catholic Studies Program.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will master a topic in Catholic Studies not addressed in other
courses
CATH 301   Catholics in America   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course uses canonization, the process by which the Catholic Church
recognizes saints, to explore change over time in the history of both the
Catholic Church and the United States. Drawing upon a cast of characters
that includes saints and sinners, martyrs and missionaries, patriot priests
and unruly women, we will explore how conceptions of sanctity and
holiness have been shaped by popular devotion, papal power, gender,
race, sexuality, nationalism, and commercialization.CATH 302   Religion & Pop Culture: Europe   (3 Credit Hours)   
In this course, we will explore how religion is lived by ordinary people
in the contexts of everyday life through various popular culture forms
and genres. We will consider how religion animates popular culture, how
popular culture itself does religious work, and how religious and non-
religious groups and individuals approach popular culture at various
times and in certain circumstances as both sacred and profane.
CATH 303   Topics in the Catholic Philosophical Tradition   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  One class in philosophy or permission of instructor   
This course examines some aspect(s) of the Catholic philosophical
tradition, drawing from various eras: its roots in ancient Greek philosophy,
through the medieval period in the work of ﬁgures such as St. Augustine
and St. Thomas Aquinas, and up to and including contemporary Catholic
philosophy.
Course equivalencies:  X-CATH 303 / PHIL 342   
Outcomes:
Students will be conversant and familiar with some central features
of the Catholic philosophical tradition, demonstrating proﬁciency in
operating within the philosophical framework of this tradition
CATH 305   Medieval Philosophy   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course deals with selected works from such authors as Augustine,
Anselm, Aquinas, Bonaventure, Scotus, and Ockham. The course may be
on a particular author, or on a theme or issue characteristic of medieval
thought.
Course equivalencies:  X-PHIL305/CATH305/MSTU344   
CATH 307   13th & 14th Century Philosophy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Modern thinkers of the 13th and 14th centuries, including at least some
of the following: Albertus Magnus, Thomas Aquinas, Dun Scotus, William
of Ockham, Roger Bacon. This course will focus on Thomas Aquinas,
John Duns Scotus, and William of Ockham. In doing so we will try to get a
sense of how they carried out the practice of philosophy, especially given
the fact that each of them was a theologian by profession. Thus, the main
theme of the course will be the relation of philosophy to theology - more
broadly, faith and reason - as it was understood in this period. We will also
look at a range of other issues that were of concern to the scholastics--
chiefly questions of metaphysics and epistemology.
Course equivalencies:  X-PHIL307/CATH307   
CATH 309   History of Primitive Christianity   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course treats the history of Christian communities and beliefs from
their emergence in cities of the early Roman Principate to the legalization
of that religion in the Late Antique period.
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST309/CATH309   
Outcomes:
Students gain familiarity with messianism and eschatology in Second
Temple Judaism, evangelization and growth of urban Christian churches,
interaction with Roman Imperial government, and the flourishing of
monasticism in the period of legalization
CATH 310   The Early Middle Ages 600-1150   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines European society and culture in the early Middle
Ages.
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST310/MSTU328/CATH310   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of reasons behind the
transformation of classical civilization; the so-called fall of Rome and
the barbarian invasions; early Germanic kingdoms; Charlemagne and
Carolingian Europe; the Vikings; and church and society in the eleventh
century

--- Page 52 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 83
CATH 311   Medieval World 1100-1500   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines European society and culture in the later Middle
Ages.
Course equivalencies:  HIST311/MSTU332/CATH311   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of new forms of schools and
learning; the origins of national monarchies; the crusades; chivalry;
courtly love and the role of women; the rise of towns; church and state
relations; the Black Death and the Hundred Years War
CATH 312   Dante-The Divine Comedy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Refashioning the conventions of poetry, Dante (1265-1321) used the
account of his presumed journey through the three realms of the
Christian afterlife - Hell, Purgatory and Paradise - to explore the world
at the close of the Middle Ages. The poem is both an adventure story
and an exhaustive, assessment of the state of politics, society, religion,
literature, philosophy, and theology at the beginning of the fourteenth
century. This course examines a selection of cantos Dante's Inferno,
Purgatorio, Paradiso in its cultural, theological, social and political
context. In particular we will explore how the underground world imagined
by the poet relates to late medieval urban life and culture. A guiding
concern of the discussion is to assess the ways in which Dante changed
our understanding of the relationship between the human and the divine,
justice and love, will and reason, happiness and knowledge, literature
and the Bible. Political turmoil, philosophical and theological paradigms
social and religious conflict all converge in the making of the Comedy and
will thus form crucial elements of our investigation.
Course equivalencies:  X-ITAL312/CATH312/MSTU364   
CATH 315   Mary and The Church   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course is structured as a chronological sweep through the history of
ideas on Mary and her importance for understanding the God revealed in
Jesus Christ. We will examine Mary's place throughout the seven major
ages of Christianity with particular attention to the Early Church Age.
After exploring the Mariologies of the Early Church Age, we will explore
the continued development of Mariology, spending signiﬁcant time
thinking about Mariology in the Post-Modern Age through your papers
and presentations.
Course equivalencies:  THEO315/CATH315   
CATH 316   The Reformation   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the birth and progress of the Reformation in
Europe from Luther's protest in 1517 to the conclusion of the Thirty Years
War in 1648.
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST315/CATH316   
Outcomes:
Students gain familiarity with the social, religious, intellectual, and
political background of the Reformation; Luther's personal religious
experience and his theological convictions; the Swiss Reformation of
Zwingli and Calvin; the nature and spread of Calvinism; the elements of
the Radical Reformation; and the efforts for Catholic Reform culminating
at the Council of Trent
CATH 317   Christian Thought: Ancient to Medieval   (3 Credit Hours)   
Early and medieval Christian Thought focuses upon the development of
Christian thinking from the apostolic times to the eve of the Protestant
Reformation. It centers on those individuals of the period who influenced
thinking and practice in their as well as subsequent times. It also focuses
upon important historical, social and political events that interacted with
Christian doctrines throughout the centuries.
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO317/CATH317/MSTU360   CATH 318   Christian Thought: Reformation to Modern   (3 Credit Hours)   
The development of various Christian doctrines in light of their historical
milieu during the last six centuries of Christian thought.
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO318/CATH318   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to assess how various conﬁgurations of theological
perspectives can both expand and foreshorten the way human thinking
has gone on
CATH 320   The Philosophy of St Augustine   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a study of the principal works of Augustine, such as the
Confessions, City of God.
Course equivalencies:  X-PHIL320/CATH320/MSTU346   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers found in the works of Augustine
CATH 321   English Literature: Medieval Period   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides a survey of Old and Middle English Literature,
studied partly in translation and partly in the original. Students will
receive training in the understanding, appreciation, and criticism of works
of medieval culture.
Course equivalencies:  X-ENGL320/CATH321/MSTU308   
CATH 322   Chaucer   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces students to the life and writings of Chaucer
through the reading of a representative selection (but not necessarily
all) of The Canterbury Tales and through considering a variety of critical
perspectives on them. Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge
of Chaucer's poetry, the ability to read Middle English, and familiarity with
some critical perspectives on Chaucer's works.
CATH 345   Roman Catholic Social Thought   (3 Credit Hours)   
An introduction to the social documents of the Catholic Church in the
modern era. This course presents a synthesis of the methodology, the
anthropology, and the principles used by the Church in its moral reflection
on the various social problems of our day.
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO345/CATH345   
CATH 361   St Augustine Works   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and LATN 102 or their equivalents   
This course focuses on translation and understanding of the works of
Saint Augustine.
Course equivalencies:  LATN361/CATH361   
Outcomes:
students should be able to translate these works with proﬁciency, and be
able to demonstrate knowledge in detail about the author and his works,
as well as deeper understanding and appreciation of the historical, social
and intellectual contexts and influences pertaining to them
CATH 379   Ecumenism in The 20th Century   (3 Credit Hours)   
Investigation of the principles of ecumenism as formulated in Vatican
II. Study of the agreed statements of bilateral discussions between
Christian communities.
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO379/CATH379   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to assess how various conﬁgurations of a religious
worldview can both expand and foreshorten the way human thinking has
gone on

--- Page 53 ---
84  College of Arts and Sciences
CATH 383   Theology Arts & Literature   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Study of theological and religious symbols and themes in modern
literature and/or in the arts.
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO383/ENGL383/CATH383   
Outcomes:
The student who successfully completes this course will be able to
demonstrate knowledge about religion and its intersections with selected
contemporary ethical, social, political, economic, or cultural issues
CATH 393   Seminar Theology   (3 Credit Hours)   
An undergraduate seminar course in theology with variable content,
addressing topical issues that are not covered by the regular offerings at
the 300 level.
Outcomes:
Students will gain an in-depth understanding of a selected topic
CATH 395   Directed Readings in Catholic Studies   (3-6 Credit Hours)   
An independent program of reading and research developed in
consultation with either the Catholic Studies Program director or a
supervising faculty member that teaches in Catholic Studies, culminating
in a major project or paper.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will master a topic in Catholic Studies not addressed in other
courses
CATH 396   Seminar in Medieval Phil   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will study selected issues from medieval philosophy.
Outcomes:
Students will develop a more advanced understanding of medieval
philosophy, through direct student participation in an interactive seminar
environment
Chemistry (CHEM)
CHEM 101   General Chemistry A Lecture/Discussion   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 117 or equivalent   
Co-requisites:  CHEM 111 and MATH 118   
A year of high school chemistry is recommended; This non-majors
course deals with the development of basic chemical principles.
Multiple perspectives of matter will be used to describe and explain
characteristics, properties, and relationships across the following topics:
atomic structure, nuclear chemistry, periodicity, molecular structure,
chemical bonding, chemical reactions, thermochemistry, aqueous
solutions, gases
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics, Forensic Science   
Course equivalencies:  ACCHM / CHEM 101   
Outcomes:
Students will learn the foundational concepts of chemistry in these topic
areas and develop skills in scientiﬁc problem solving and critical thinkingCHEM 102   General Chemistry B Lecture/Discussion   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 101 or CHEM105; MATH 118 or equivalent   
This non-majors course further develops principles from CHEM 101
& requires in-depth integration of concepts. Multiple perspectives of
matter will be used to describe/explain characteristics, properties, &
relationships across the following topics: liquids & solids, solutions,
reaction kinetics, equilibria, acids & bases, reaction thermodynamics,
electrochemical reactions.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics, Forensic Science   
Course equivalencies:  ACCHM / CHEM 102   
Outcomes:
Students will deepen their understanding of foundational concepts of
chemistry and advance their skills in scientiﬁc problem solving, critical
thinking and synthesis of concepts
CHEM 102D   General Chemistry B Discussion   (0 Credit Hours)   
Discussion to accompany the CHEM 102 lecture section.
CHEM 105   Chemical Principles   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Math Placement Test or Math 117   
Lecture, discussion and laboratory course for majors covering
stoichiometry, reactions in aqueous solution, states of matter, electronic
structure, thermodynamics, chemical bonding, molecular geometry and
intermolecular forces. Emphasis given to writing electron conﬁgurations
and Lewis diagrams, predicting molecular geometry and properties,
mass/mole conversions and solving thermodynamic and gas law
problems.
Outcomes:
Students will learn basic chemical principles in these areas
CHEM 106   Basic Inorganic Chemistry   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 105 AND MATH 118 or equivalent   
Laboratory course designed to illustrate fundamental models and
theories in chemistry with an emphasis on signiﬁcant digits, calculations,
and analysis and discussion questions.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics, Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to use equipment properly and demonstrate correct
laboratory technique
CHEM 111   General Chemistry Lab A   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 117 or placement test equivalent   
Laboratory course designed to illustrate fundamental models and
theories in chemistry with an emphasis on signiﬁcant digits, calculations,
and analysis and discussion questions.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics, Forensic Science   
Course equivalencies:  ACCHM / CHEM 111   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to use equipment properly and demonstrate correct
laboratory technique
CHEM 112   General Chemistry Lab B   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 101 and 111 (or CHEM 105) and MATH 118 (or
equivalent)   
The second semester of general chemistry laboratory exposes students
to qualitative analysis and continues the process of experimenting and
collecting data to test the validity of theories and models presented in
lecture.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics, Forensic Science   
Course equivalencies:  ACCHM / CHEM 112   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate success in lab by making perceptive
qualitative observations and accurate quantitative measurements

--- Page 54 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 85
CHEM 160   Chemical Structure and Properties   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 117 or equivalent   
Lecture and discussion course designed to create foundational
knowledge and proﬁciency in essential chemistry concepts and skills.
Topics include atomic structure, periodic properties, bonding and
properties of molecules, solid states, interactions and connections of
light and matter, quantum and molecular mechanics models of atoms
and molecules.
Outcomes:
Students will use multiple perspectives of matter to describe and
explain how atomic, molecular and interparticle structure determines the
properties of common materials
CHEM 161   Chemical Structure and Properties Laboratory   (1 Credit
Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 117 or equivalent   
Laboratory course designed to create foundational knowledge and
proﬁciency in essential chemistry lab skills including developing the
knowledge and use of PPE, MSDS, and Chemical labels, basic statistical
analysis and graphing, proper usage of common laboratory equipment
and instrumentation, and keeping a laboratory notebook and writing
reports.
Outcomes:
Students will learn essential chemistry lab skills, including best practices
for chemical safety and hygiene, laboratory equipment, instrumentation,
writing techniques, and measurements
CHEM 171   General Chemistry for Engineering Science Majors   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 118 or Math Placement Test; Co-requisite
CHEM 173; Restricted to Engineering Science Students; A good
background in high school chemistry is recommendation   
This course is designed to acquaint students in engineering science
with fundamental concepts of chemistry as well as their applications
in the ﬁeld of engineering. Students will survey topics in atomic
structure, periodicity, chemical bonding, chemical reactions and reaction
stoichiometry, gases, chemical thermodynamics, chemical kinetics,
chemical equilibrium, and electrochemistry. A good background in high
school chemistry is recommendation.
Outcomes:
Students should demonstrate proﬁcient understanding of fundamental
concepts and skills of general chemistry as well as their applications in
the ﬁeld of engineering
CHEM 173   General Chemistry Lab for Engineering Science Majors   (1
Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 118 or equivalent; Co-requisite: CHEM 173;
Enrollment is restricted to declared ENGR majors; A good background in
high school chemistry is recommendation   
This lab course is a companion course to CHEM 171 General Chemi stry
for Engineering Science and is designed to support the development
of chemistry concepts within the following topics: atomic structure,
periodicity, chemical bonding, chemical reactions and reaction
stoichiometry, gases, chemical thermodynamics, chemical kinetics,
chemical equilibrium, and electrochemistry.CHEM 180   Chemical Reactivity I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 160 and MATH 118 or equivalent   
Lecture and discussion course designed to create foundational
knowledge and proﬁciency in essential chemistry concepts and skills.
Topics include acids and bases, buffers, chemical equilibrium, molecular
thermodynamics and kinetics, nucleophilic substitutions, elimination
reactions, carbonyl compounds and reactions with applications to
biochemical pathways.
Outcomes:
Students will use qualitative and quantitative representations of matter
to describe, explain, and predict how molecular structure and stability
changes over time in chemical reactions
CHEM 181   Chemical Reactivity I Lab   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 160, CHEM 161, and MATH 118 or equivalent   
Laboratory course designed to utilize experiments to illustrate
the relationships between the structures of compounds and their
resulting properties Topics include identiﬁcation of compounds using
chromatography, mass spectrometry, infrared spectroscopy, and NMR,
separation methods. Additional skills in analytical reasoning and
information literacy will also be developed.
Outcomes:
Students will establish best practices for working safely in lab, analyzing
compounds, interpreting spectra, and puriﬁcation of reaction products
CHEM 195   Foundational Concepts in Chemistry   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Foundational Chemistry seminar/topics course, 1-3 credit hours.
Chemical topics vary by section and are selected from the CHEM 100-
and/or 200-level Departmental curriculum. Departmental consent
required.
Outcomes:
Students will use multiple perspectives of matter to describe and explain
characteristics, properties, and relationships of chemical systems
CHEM 212   Quantitative Analysis Lecture   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 106 or 102 and 112   
This lecture course provides an introduction to modern analytical
quantitative chemistry. Topics include chemical equilibrium, statistical
analysis of data as well as modern and classical methods of chemical
analysis.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
CHEM 214   Quantitative Analysis Laboratory   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 106 or 102 and 112; Pre or co-requisite: CHEM 212   
This laboratory course introduces students to classical and modern
methods of chemical analysis and teaches wet chemical laboratory
techniques.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
CHEM 221   Organic Chemistry I Lec/Disc   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 106; Chemistry and Biochemistry majors only   
A lecture, discussion and laboratory course for chemistry majors covering
structure and bonding in organic molecules; nomenclature, chemical and
physical properties and reactions of non-aromatic hydrocarbons, alkyl
halides, alcohols, ethers; stereochemistry and conformational analysis;
and spectroscopy.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics, Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the chemical behavior of organic molecules and
the mechanisms of reactions

--- Page 55 ---
86  College of Arts and Sciences
CHEM 222   Organic Chemistry II Lec/Disc   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 221; Chemistry & Biochemistry majors only   
A lecture, discussion and laboratory course for chemistry majors
continuing from 221 covering nomenclature, properties, reactions,
syntheses, and spectroscopy of further classes of aliphatic and aromatic
compounds, carbohydrates and other polyfunctional compounds.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics, Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to assign IUPAC names, spectroscopically identify,
prepare, and propose reactions for these groups
CHEM 223   Organic Chemistry A Lec/Disc   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (CHEM 102 or CHEM 106) and MATH 118 (or equivalent)   
Lecture and discussion course for non-chemistry majors surveying
nomenclature, structures, properties, stereochemistry, reactions,
mechanisms, and syntheses of aliphatic hydrocarbons, alkyl halides,
alcohols, and ethers.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics, Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Students will identify classes of organic compounds and typical
reactions, discriminate amongst intermediate stabilities, postulate
reaction mechanisms, plan multi-step syntheses, and analyze/interpret
spectroscopic data
CHEM 224   Organic Chemistry B Lec/Disc   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 223 or 221   
The second semester lecture and discussion course of a two semester
sequence, a continuation of CHEM 223 for non-chemistry majors
emphasizing the organic chemistry of conjugated systems, aromatic
compounds, carbonyl compounds, amines, carboxylic acids and their
derivatives, carbohydrates, lipids, and proteins.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics, Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Students will identify classes of organic compounds and typical
reactions, discriminate amongst intermediate stabilities, postulate
reaction mechanisms, plan multi-step syntheses, and analyze/interpret
spectroscopic data
CHEM 225   Organic Chemistry Lab A   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 102 and 112 (or CHEM 106) and MATH 118 (or
equivalent)   
A laboratory course for non-chemistry majors designed to reinforce
lecture topics from CHEM 223 and to expose students to the safe
handling of organic chemicals.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Students will acquire basic laboratory techniques and practices for
working with organic chemicals
CHEM 226   Organic Chemistry Lab B   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 223 and CHEM 225 (or CHEM 221)   
A laboratory course for non-chemistry majors designed to reinforce
lecture topics from 224 and to expose students to organic synthesis.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Students will perform reactions to prepare known organic compounds
and then isolate and characterize the reaction productsCHEM 240   Chemical Reactivity II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 180 and CHEM 181; Bioinformatics majors have Pre-
requisite: CHEM 180 Outcomes: Students will increase their ability to use
qualitative and quantitative representations of matter to describe, explain,
and predict how molecular structure and stability changes over time in
chemical reactions   
Lecture and discussion course designed to create foundational
knowledge and proﬁciency in essential chemistry concepts and
skills. Topics include the reactivity of: alkenes, arenes, alkynes, and
polyfunctional organic molecules. These topics will expand and enhance
the ability to use chemical principles to explain natural phenomena.
CHEM 241   Chemical Reactivity II Laboratory   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 180 and CHEM 181   
Laboratory course designed to teach students how to perform chemical
synthesis reactions and to evaluate and report the results.
Outcomes:
Students will utilize best practices for working safely in lab and for
synthesizing, purifying, and characterizing chemical compounds
CHEM 242   Chemical Synthesis Laboratory   (2 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 180 and CHEM 181   
Laboratory course designed to teach students how to perform chemical
synthesis reactions and to evaluate and report the results. Students will
also learn how to search the chemistry literature for existing synthesis
laboratory procedures.
Outcomes:
Students will utilize best practices for working safely in lab and for
synthesizing, purifying, and characterizing chemical compounds
CHEM 260   Quantitative Methods in Chemistry   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 180, CHEM 181 and MATH 131 (or MATH 161); BIOI-
BS majors, Pre-requisite: CHEM 180 and MATH 131 (or MATH 161)   
Lecture and discussion course designed to create foundational
knowledge and proﬁciency in essential chemistry concepts and skills.
Topics include quantitative description of gases, liquids, and solutions,
kinetics of chemical reactions, chemical equilibria, acids and bases,
the thermodynamics of chemical reactions, electrochemistry, and
spectroscopy.
Outcomes:
Students will deepen their understanding of foundational concepts of
chemistry and advance their skills in scientiﬁc problem solving, critical
thinking, and synthesis of concepts
CHEM 261   Quantitative Methods in Chemistry Laboratory   (1 Credit
Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 180 and CHEM 181 and MATH 131 (or MATH 161)   
Laboratory course designed for non-majors. The course provides
students continued laboratory and chemical safety topics, scientiﬁc
writing, peer review, and importance of articulating lab results in content.
It will teach students how to perform chemical analysis using a variety of
techniques including titration, kinetics, and spectrophotometry. Students
also learn about the peer review process.
Outcomes:
Students will utilize best practices for working safely in lab during
experiments designed to include kinetics, acids & bases, buffers, and
spectrophotometry

--- Page 56 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 87
CHEM 272   Analytical Chemistry Laboratory   (2 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 180, CHEM 181, and MATH 131 (or MATH 161)   
This course continues exposure to laboratory and chemical safety topics,
scientiﬁc writing, and articulating experiment results. The course utilizes
hands-on lab experiments to teach a variety of analytical methods for
quantifying a diverse set of chemical species. Data analysis, calibration
methods, peer review are also of focus.
Outcomes:
Students will utilize best practices for lab safety, demonstrate application
of analytical methods in chemical analysis, articulate results through
scientiﬁc writing, and explain importance of accuracy & precision of data
CHEM 280   Environmental & Chemical Analysis   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 240 and CHEM 260; Pre- or Co-requisite: CHEM 272   
Lecture and discussion course designed to create foundational
knowledge and proﬁciency in essential chemistry concepts and skills.
Topics include the chemical analytical process, sample preparation,
quantitative analysis, and data evaluation and validation. These topics
will expand and enhance the ability to use chemical principles to analyze
various types of environmental samples.
Outcomes:
Students will increase their ability to use both qualitative and quantitative
reasoning to follow the chemical analytical process for various types of
samples encountered in the Environment, Life Sciences, and Industry
CHEM 300   Undergraduate Research   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Prior consultation with the instructor and a completed
agreement form; Agreement forms for this directed study course are
obtained from the department ofﬁce, and the completed form (signed
by the student, instructor, and chairperson) must be deposited in the
chemistry ofﬁce before the student can register for the course   
This course gives undergraduate students an opportunity to participate in
research in a selected area.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will accomplish the research task deﬁned in the contractual
arrangement between the student and the instructor
CHEM 300P   Introduction to Chemistry Research   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 101 and 111 (or CHEM 105)   
This two week course will focus on issues of chemical safety, research
protocols, data recording, and instrumentation use. Typical course
meetings will involve in-class presentations, group discussions, and
hands-on experience.
Outcomes:
Expose students to of essential and important issues of chemical safety,
research protocols, data recording, and instrumentation use for students
preparing for undergraduate and graduate chemistry research
CHEM 301   Physical Chemistry I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (CHEM 240 and CHEM 260) or CHEM 222 or CHEM 224;
and MATH 162 or 263A; and PHYS 112 or 122   
Lecture and discussion course covering principles and applications
of thermodynamics and kinetic theory and emphasizing the laws of
thermodynamics and statistical theory and their ramiﬁcations for
equilibrium and non-equilibrium systems.
Outcomes:
Students will acquire fundamental knowledge of work, heat, their
interconversions and the relationships between entropy, free energy and
heat capacityCHEM 302   Physical Chemistry II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (CHEM 240 and CHEM 260) or CHEM 222 or CHEM 224;
and MATH 162 or 263A; and PHYS 112 or 122   
Lecture and discussion course covering principles of quantum mechanics
with the applications to chemical properties and spectroscopy of atoms
and molecules.
Outcomes:
Students will acquire fundamental knowledge of the physical laws that
govern chemical processes, and learn how to apply these laws to predict
the structure and properties of chemical systems
CHEM 303   Physical Chemistry Lab I   (2 Credit Hours)   
Co-requisites:  CHEM 302   
Pre or This course covers principles and techniques of experimental
physical chemistry including the practice of numerical data analysis,
solid-state electronics, and vacuum technology along with their
applications to magnetic resonance, high-resolution spectroscopy, and
chemical thermodynamics. Outcome: Students will acquire broad-based
knowledge of laboratory skills central to experimental physical chemistry.
CHEM 305   Physical Biochemistry for the Biological Sciences   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (CHEM 240 and 260) or CHEM 222 or CHEM 224, and
PHYS 112, and MATH 132 or equivalent; Restricted to Biochemistry and
Forensic Science majors   
Lecture course covering principles and biological applications of
thermodynamics, kinetics, quantum mechanics and molecular
spectroscopy.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Students will learn how fundamental concepts in physical chemis try can
be used to understand biological processes
CHEM 306   Physical Biochemistry Lab   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 305   
This laboratory course will introduce apparatus, and analysis used in
experimental physical chemistry for biochemistry students.
Outcomes:
Students will acquire broad-based knowledge of laboratory skills central
to biophysical chemistry
CHEM 307   Inorganic Chemistry   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (CHEM 240 and CHEM 242 and CHEM 260) or CHEM 222 or
(CHEM 224 and CHEM 226); Restricted to Biochemistry majors   
Lecture course covering atomic structure, chemical bonding, and
transition metal, solid state, organometallic and bioinorganic chemistry.
Outcomes:
Students will learn chemical principles in important areas of inorganic
chemistry
CHEM 314   Instrumental Analysis   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (CHEM 272 and CHEM 280) or (CHEM 212, CHEM 214, and
(CHEM 222 or (CHEM 224 and CHEM 226); and PHYS 112 or PHYS 122;
Restricted to Chemistry majors   
This course discusses and demonstrates how instrumental techniques
such as atomic spectroscopy, molecular spectroscopy, mass
spectrometry and chemical separations can be used to identify the
chemical composition of a sample. The hands-on approach will enable
students to perform instrumental analysis independently.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to select the most suitable analytical method to
identify a sample

--- Page 57 ---
88  College of Arts and Sciences
CHEM 323   Medicinal Chemistry   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 361 or CHEM 370   
This course examines how medicinal chemists design and synthesi ze
drug candidates to meet FDA requirements of efﬁcacy and safety, and
how a testing strategy measures efﬁcacy vs. toxicity comprising the
therapeutic index. Topics include drug-receptor/enzyme binding, PK,
ADME, patenting of IP , and the ethical aspects of pharmaceuticals.
Outcomes:
Students will be able explain the strategy of drug candidate analog
design, synthesis, binding and inhibition constants, drug testing
strategies, pharmacokinetics, structure-activity relationships (SAR), and
the therapeutic index of drugs
CHEM 340   Advanced Inorganic Chemistry   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 302   
Lecture course covering modern theories of atomic and molecular
structure as applied to inorganic chemistry with discussion of acid-base
theories, the chemistry, spectra and reaction mechanisms of coordination
and organometallic compounds. Symmetry is used to develop molecular
orbital diagrams, predict geometry, hybridization schemes and interpret
electronic spectra.
Outcomes:
Students will learn chemical principles in these areas
CHEM 341   Advanced Inorganic Laboratory   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre- or co-requisites:  CHEM 340   
A laboratory course illustrating topics and techniques used in modern
inorganic chemistry; coordination and organometallic compounds are
prepared and characterized by IR, UV-Vis and NMR spectroscopy, and
magnetic susceptibility measurements. All experimental work is recorded
in a laboratory notebook and includes a formal written report.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate success in lab by making perceptive
qualitative observations and accurate quantitative measurements
CHEM 361   Principles of Biochemistry   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 222 or CHEM 224 or (CHEM 240 pre-req and
CHEM 260 co-req)   
This course examines the structural' functional relationships in proteins,
nucleic acids, carbohydrates and lipids as well as their metabolic
pathways. CHEM 361 is cross-listed with BIOL 366. CHEM 361 may not
count towards CHEM-BS, BIOC-BS, or BIOC-BA degrees. These students
must take CHEM 370.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics   
Course equivalencies:  X-BIOL366/BIOI366/CHEM361   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of biological
molecules and how they are metabolized
CHEM 365   Proteomics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 361 or CHEM 370   
Proteomics describes and deciphers the protein structures that are the
result of biochemical interactions encoded in a genome. To understand
these processes, proteins have to be identiﬁed, sequenced, categorized,
and classiﬁed with respect to their function and interaction in a protein
network. This course will teach students how to characterize functional
protein networks, examine their dynamic alteration during physiological
and pathological processes. The course will also cover techniques to
analyze and identify proteins using protein databases and study protein
to protein interactions in the discover of drugs for diseases.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics   
Course equivalencies:  CHEM365/BIOI386   CHEM 370   Biochemistry I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 222 or (CHEM 224 and CHEM 226) or (CHEM 240
and CHEM 242 pre-req, and CHEM 260 co-req); Restricted to Chemistry
and Biochemistry majors   
This is the ﬁrst part of a two-semester Biochemistry series that
emphasizes important biochemical concepts on the structure and
function of proteins, enzymes, carbohydrates, lipids and cell membranes
as well as on the bioenergetic and regulatory principles behind the central
and carbohydrate pathways. Chemistry and Biochemistry majors must
take CHEM 370. CHEM 361 may not count towards CHEM-BS, BIOC-BS, or
BIOC-BA degrees.
Course equivalencies:  X- CHEM 370/CHEM 470   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of structural-
functional relationships in biological molecules and how carbohydrates
are metabolized
CHEM 371   Biochemistry II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 370   
This is the second part of a two-semester Biochemistry lecture series that
emphasizes important biochemical concepts on lipid, amino acid and
nucleotide metabolic pathways as well as the structure and function of
nucleic acids. Special topics on sensory systems, motility, immunology
and drug development will also be discussed.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of metabolic
pathways and of current research topics in biochemistry
CHEM 372   Biochemistry Laboratory I   (2 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 242 or CHEM 222 or CHEM 226; and (CHEM 260 and
CHEM 272) or (CHEM 212 and CHEM 214); and CHEM 370; Restricted to
Biochemistry majors   
This laboratory is designed to simulate a research experience and
to teach basic techniques utilized in a biochemistry laboratory. The
course theme involves a comparative investigation of the enzyme
glyceraidehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) from various
animal sources. All procedures required in lab will be found by the
student in the library and proposed to the instructor(s) as a pre-lab
exercise. Each two-student team will be working on GAPDH from either an
aquatic or land animal source, e.g., trout, tuna, pork beef or chicken.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to purify and characterize an enzyme in a research
context
CHEM 373   Biochemistry Laboratory II   (2 Credit Hours)   
This laboratory course is designed to simulate a research project in which
molecular biology techniques and biochemistry are integrated. Those
techniques are used as important tools to help solve questions in enzyme
structure and function. he course theme involves an investigation on the
relationship between protein structure and function of the ADP-glucose
pyrophosphorylase (ADP-Glc PPase) from Escherichia coli. All procedure
required in lab will be found by the student in the library and proposed
to the instructor(s) as a pre-lab exercise. Each two-student team will be
working on a speciﬁc ADP-Glc PPase that has been previously obtained in
a recombinant form. Their genes will be provided in a plasmid form. The
student will learn strategies to produce and test a hypothesis in this area.
Additionally, the student will learn how to integrate molecular biology
techniques and biochemistry.
Outcomes:
Students will study the basic concepts of enzyme structure relationships
and how to investigate them

--- Page 58 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 89
CHEM 380   Chemistry Seminar   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 240 or CHEM 222 or CHEM 224   
A weekly seminar course with presentations, generally given by outside
speakers, covering topics in chemistry usually not encountered in the
classroom.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate their understanding by writing a one page
summary of each presentation
CHEM 385   Advanced Enzyme Kinetics and Mechanisms   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 370   
The major themes in this course will be topics that are related to modern
enzymology. The structure of this course will involve lectures by Dr.
Ballicora for each topic, and discussion with the students.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand enzyme mechanisms and be able to
make oral presentations on recently published articles
CHEM 386   The Chemistry of Enzymes   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 370, restricted to Biochemistry majors   
The course describes the chemical strategies employed by enzymes to
accelerate reactions combined with an examination of the specialized
methods employed to study enzyme chemistry. The course is lecture
based with concurrent problems sets. The course content will focus on
deductive reasoning to understand what is observed how best analyze
data obtained from the study of enzymes.
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of transient state chemical kinetics
as it pertains to the study of enzymes
CHEM 387   Plant Biochemistry   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 370   
The major themes in this course will be about topics that are related
to plant biochemistry and metabolism. The structure of the course
will involve lectures for each topic, with discussion with the students.
Students will learn how plants and photosynthetic organisms acquire
and process energy. Plant metabolism will constitute a central part of the
course, focusing on the main differences from other living organisms. A
solid understanding of plant metabolism will inspire the student to think
about all the possibilities that plant biochemistry and biotechnology offer
to solve critical problems, such as malnutrition, global climate change,
drug discovery, and infectious diseases.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand how knowledge of plant bioc hemistry
is important in many areas, including medicine, nutrition and climate
change
CHEM 388   Biophysical Chemistry   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 361 or 370   
Survey of experimental methods for the physicochemical
characterization of biomolecules. Topics include electrophoresis,
mass spectrometry, calorimetry, optical spectroscopy, NMR, and X-ray
crystallography.
Outcomes:
Students will have a conceptual understanding of different experimental
methods for the physicochemical characterization of biomolecules and
will be able to evaluate utility and limitations of the different approachesCHEM 395   Special Topics in Chemistry   (0-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Satisfactory progress toward completion of the core
chemistry courses, and junior or senior status   
Course content varies from semester to semester and has included
advanced topics in analytical, inorganic, organic, physical, and
biochemistry.
Outcomes:
Students will acquire an advanced understanding of a selected topic in
chemistry
CHEM 395B   Bioethics Minor Capstone: Chemical Topics   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Two Science courses and two Ethics courses   
This course number will only be used when CHEM 395 is tagged with the
Bioethics Minor Capstone course.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the connection between ethical and chemical
issues with regard to the special topic in chemistry
CHEM 396   Special Topics in Biochemistry   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
1) Course content varies from semester to semester and includes
advanced topics in biochemistry. 2) Satisfactory progress toward
completion of the core chemistry courses, and junior or senior status. 3)
Students will acquire an advanced understanding of a selected topic in
biochemistry.
CHEM 399   Internship in Biochemistry or Chemistry   (2-3 Credit Hours)   
A supervised ﬁeld placement to give students training or work experience
in aspects of biochemistry or chemistry that are not commonly available
on campus. Students will work outside the classroom (e.g. industrial
setting or national lab) applying and extending their biochemis try or
chemistry skills, typically for at least 150 hours to receive 3 credits or for
more than 100 hours for 2 credits. Permission of faculty advisor Students
must complete a total of 3 credits to receive engaged learning credit.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will acquire practical experience in biochemistry or chemistry
related job settings
Chinese (CHIN)
CHIN 101   Chinese I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This is an introductory course in Modern Standard Chinese (Mandarin)
for students with none or little prior experience in Chinese. This course
introduces the four basic communicative skills in Chinese: listening,
speaking, reading and writing, and emphasizes on conversation. They
will be able to understand and respond to greetings, as well as talk about
family members, time, hobbies and friends. They will learn nearly 200
characters.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Chinese Language & Culture   
Course equivalencies:  X-CHIN101/ASIAC01   
Outcomes:
Students will achieve active control of Chinese sound system and writing
system

--- Page 59 ---
90  College of Arts and Sciences
CHIN 102   Chinese II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHIN 101   
CHIN 102 is a continuation of CHIN 101. Students will expand their
knowledge of Chinese characters, vocabulary and grammar, improve their
skills on listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills, and learn more
cultural knowledge. Aside from dialogues, they will also read a short dairy
and a letter. They will learn some 200 new characters.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Chinese Language & Culture   
Course equivalencies:  X-CHIN102/ASIAC02   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to make appointments, talk about Chinese learning
experience, school life, shopping, weather and transportation
CHIN 103   Chinese III   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHIN 102   
CHIN 103 builds on the knowledge and skills gained in CHIN 101-
CHIN 102. This course develops conversational skills by using
fundamental grammatical patterns and vocabulary in functional contexts.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Chinese Language & Culture   
Course equivalencies:  X-CHIN103/ASIAC03   
Outcomes:
Students will learn dialogues used in the contexts of dinning out,
studying in library, asking directions, attending birthday party, seeing a
doctor, and dating
CHIN 104   Chinese IV   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHIN 103   
CHIN 104 is the continuation of CHIN 103. This course further extends
students' knowledge of Chinese vocabulary and grammar, and improves
their skills in listening, speaking, reading, and writing.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Chinese Language & Culture   
Course equivalencies:  X-CHIN104/ASIAC04   
Outcomes:
Students will learn expressions in the contexts of renting an apartment,
mailing a letter and traveling in both mainland China and Taiwan, talking
about hometown and sports, and checking in at the airport
CHIN 190   Business Chinese I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHIN 101   
Business Chinese I is primarily intended for students who are interested
in pursuing a career that may involve working in China or doing business
with Chinese corporate partners. Examples of topics include meeting with
a manager, being introduced to colleagues, and attending social events.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Chinese Language & Culture   
Outcomes:
1) An expanded vocabulary (500-600 characters in total); 2) deeper
knowledge of Chinese grammar; and 3) a multi-faceted introduction to
Chinese business cultureCHIN 191   Business Chinese II   (3 Credit Hours)   
As a follow-on course to Business Chinese I (CHIN 190), this course
is primarily intended for students who are interested in pursuing a
career that may involve working in China or doing business with Chinese
corporate partners. In CHIN 191, all the topics are practical for a "real
world" business environment, for instance, making an appointment,
visiting a company, introducing production facilities and products, dining
etiquette, and socializing with colleagues after work.
Outcomes:
Upon completion of Business Chinese II, the student should have 1) an
expanded vocabulary frequently encountered in a business environment,
2) deeper knowledge of Chinese syntax (sentence patterns and habitual
usages), morphology (character construction and combinations),
and other aspects of grammar (eg, verb tense markers, positioning of
prepositional phrases and adverbials), and 3) a multifaceted introduction
to Chinese business culture
CHIN 250   Composition and Conversation   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHIN 104   
This course focuses on different aspects of Chinese life and society,
enhancing students' ability to understand Chinese culture and Chinese
ways of socializing, thinking, lifestyle, etc.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Chinese Language & Culture   
Outcomes:
Students will increase their vocabulary and improve their ability to
compose formal speech and carry on discussions
CHIN 251   Advanced Composition & Conversation   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHIN 250   
This course focuses contemporary aspects of Chinese life and society.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Chinese Language & Culture   
Outcomes:
Students will increase their vocabulary and improve their ability to
compose formal speech and carry on discussions
CHIN 252   Advanced Composition and Conversation II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Students must have completed CHIN 251 or equivalent   
In this course students will further expand their vocabulary, acquire
more-advanced grammatical structures and usage patterns, learn to
communicate in Chinese both in the classroom and in social settings and
deepen their understanding of Chinese culture.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Chinese Language & Culture   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to further enhance their listening, reading, speaking
and writing skills as well as appreciate the cultural nuances of the
Chinese language
CHIN 253   Advanced Composition and Conversation III   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Students must have completed CHIN 252 or equivalent   
In this course students will further expand their vocabulary, acquire
more-advanced grammatical structures and usage patterns, learn to
communicate in Chinese both in the classroom and in social settings and
deepen their understanding of Chinese culture.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Chinese Language & Culture   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to further enhance their listening, reading, speaking
and writing skills as well as appreciate the cultural nuances of the
Chinese language
CHIN 260   Intensive Advanced Chinese I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is for those who have taken three year of Chinese at the
college level. The student will gain advanced skills in speaking, reading,
and writing Chinese and explore a broad range of topics related to
Chinese culture.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Chinese Language & Culture   

--- Page 60 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 91
CHIN 261   Intensive Advanced Chinese II   (3 Credit Hours)   
This is a follow-on course to CHIN 260. The student will continue to gain
advanced skills in speaking, reading, and writing Chinese and explore a
broad range of topics related to Chinese culture.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Chinese Language & Culture   
CHIN 314   Modern Chinese Literature in Chinese   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a survey of modern Chinese literature from 1918 to the
present. It requires the close reading of famous Chinese writers and
poets as well as some of the avant-garde writers. Students will have the
opportunity to explore their own ideas of the aesthetic characteristics
of the Chinese literature in the 20th century, as well as its historical
and social background and learn about one of the important aspects of
modern Chinese culture.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of principal, genres, themes and
forms of modern Chinese literature through analytical oral and written
arguments
CHIN 340   Modern Chinese Fiction   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces Chinese literature from historical and modern
periods. Readings will be in Chinese and may include novels, short
stories, poems, and folklore.
CHIN 341   Modern Chinese Literature in Chinese   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a survey of modern Chinese literature from 1918 to the
present. It requires the close reading of famous Chinese writers and
poets as well as some of the avant-garde writers. Students will have the
opportunity to explore their own ideas of the aesthetic characteristics
of the Chinese literature in the 20th century, as well as its historical
and social background and learn about one of the important aspects of
modern Chinese culture.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Chinese Language & Culture, Global
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-CHIN341/ASIA314/INTS341A   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of principal, genres, themes and
forms of modern Chinese literature through analytical oral and written
arguments
CHIN 360   Advanced Conversational Chinese I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on advanced conversational skills for those who
have taken a minimum of three years of Chinese.
CHIN 361   Advanced Conversational Chinese II   (4 Credit Hours)   
This is a follow-on course to CHIN 360 for those wishing to gai n more
advanced conversational skills in Chinese.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Chinese Language & Culture   
CHIN 395   Tutorial   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
This independent study course provides an opportunity to explore a topic
of interest to the student related to Chinese language and culture under
the guidance of a faculty member.Classical Civilization (CLST)
CLST 206   Art of Ancient Greece   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to the art of the ancient Greek world from
the Bronze Age through the Hellenistic period (to c. 50 B.C.E.), focusing
on major trends and developments in Classical Greek architecture,
sculpture, pottery and painting through close study of individual
examples.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Italian Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-CLST206/FNAR336   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to recognize and interpret selected examples of
ancient Greek art, including painting, sculpture, architecture, and other
types; they should be able to apply their art-critical and appreciation skills
to other types of art
CLST 207   Art of the Roman World   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to the art of the Roman world from
c. 3000 B.C.E. to c. the ﬁfth century CE. It focuses on major trends
and developments in Etruscan, Roman and later Greek art, including
architecture, painting, mosaic, and sculpture through close study of
individual examples.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Italian Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-CLST207/FNAR337/ROST307   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to recognize and be able to interpret selected
examples of ancient Roman art, including painting, mosaic, sculpture,
architecture, and other types; they will be able to apply their art-critical
and appreciation skills to other types of art
CLST 241   Religions of Ancient Greece   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the beliefs and practices in ancient Greek religion
by studying the written, artistic, and archaeological evidence for their
forms and functions and the environment in which they flourished.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Course equivalencies:  CLST241/CLST371   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of ancient G reek
religions
CLST 267   Medical and Scientiﬁc Terminology in Context   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course focuses on the ancient Greek and Latin roots of terminology
relating to the sciences, speciﬁcally, medical science. The development
and changes in the scientiﬁc paradigm are explored through readings in
translation of a variety of ancient Greek and Roman thinkers.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate knowledge and better
understanding of the language of modern science

--- Page 61 ---
92  College of Arts and Sciences
CLST 271   Classical Mythology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course focuses on Greek and Roman literature involving myth and
how ancient and modern peoples use traditional narratives, characters,
images and conceptions to explore, explain, and experiment with ideas
about themselves and their surroundings in their historical, social,
cultural and intellectual contexts.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Shakespeare Studies   
Course equivalencies:  CLST271/CLST271G   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate knowledge of the fundamental
myths of the ancient Greek and Roman world, their language and possible
meanings, and how myth reflected important collective and individual
concerns, values, beliefs, and practices then, even as modern myth does
now
CLST 271G   Classical Mythology - Women/Gender Focus   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course examines Greek and Roman literature involving myth and
how peoples use traditional narratives and characters to explain and
experiment with ideas about themselves and their surroundings in their
historical, social, cultural and intellectual contexts. CLST 271G focuses,
within this ﬁeld, on concerns of women's studies and gender studies.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Shakespeare Studies, Women &
Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  CLST271/CLST271G   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate knowledge of the fundamental
myths of the ancient Greek and Roman world, their language and possible
meanings, and how myth reflected important collective and individual
concerns, values, beliefs, and practices then, even as modern myth does
nowCLST 271R   Classical Mythology - Rome Focus   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course focuses on Greek and (especially) Roman literature involving
myth and how ancient and modern peoples use traditional narrati ves,
characters, images and conceptions to explore, explain, and experiment
with ideas about themselves and their surroundings in their historical,
social, cultural and intellectual contexts. Students should be able to
demonstrate knowledge of the fundamental myths of the ancient G reek
and Roman world, their language and possible meanings, and how myth
reflected important collective and individual concerns, values, beliefs, and
practices then, even as modern myth does now.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Course equivalencies:  CLST271/CLST271G   
Outcomes:
Students will gain factual knowledge of the essential characters and
basic narratives of the most important myths of ancient Greece and
Rome; Students will gain a broader understanding and appreciation
of intellectual and cultural activity through Classical myth as
simultaneously ﬁxed and mutable narrative, one which depends on
unchanging elements as it is refracted through different genres, authors,
and time periods; Students will gain basic knowledge of modern myth
theory as well as awareness of both its broad categorization and the
difﬁculty of a universal deﬁnition of myth; Students will be able to analyze
and evaluate critically particular versions of myths in their cultural
and historical context as well as in reference to other versions of the
same stories from different contexts; Students will be able to interpret
myths using modern myth theories and to recognize the use of myth as
consciousness-raising in religious contexts; Students will learn to apply
course material to improve thinking by contextualizing their own moral
sensibilities and aesthetic preferences by comparing the archetypes of
ancient myths with modern archetypes
CLST 272   Heroes & the Classical Epics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course centers upon the epics of the ancient Mediterranean world,
their nature and signiﬁcance, and, especially, the concepts of heroes and
heroism.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate knowledge of ancient epic as
a literary genre, what heroes are and why they are featured in epics,
and how epics began and evolved to reflect audiences and their social,
cultural, political and other concerns, values (such as leadership) beliefs
and practices

--- Page 62 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 93
CLST 273   Classical Tragedy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course introduces students to extant Greek tragic drama, especially
through the works of Aeschylus, Sophocles and Euripides.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Shakespeare Studies   
Course equivalencies:  CLST273/CLST273G   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate knowledge of plot, characters
and themes in Greek drama; understanding of the historical, social
and cultural conditions implicated with each work; comprehension of
concerns and values contained in them, such as justice, and how these
are mirrored in modern literature and drama
CLST 273G   Classical Tragedy - Women/Gender Focus   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course introduces students to extant Greek tragic drama, especially
through the works of Aeschylus, Sophocles and Euripides. CLST 273G
focuses, within this ﬁeld, on concerns of women's studies and gender
studies.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Shakespeare Studies, Women &
Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  CLST273/CLST273G   
CLST 274   World of Archaic Greece   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  HIST 101, HIST 102, HIST 103, HIST 104, or equivalent;
please check requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course investigates the history, literature, art, culture and society of
Archaic Greece (c. 750-480 B.C.E.), the precursor of Classical Greece and
western civilization.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Historical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate knowledge about the signiﬁcant
political, cultural and social accomplishments, events, institutions, trends,
questions, and concerns, and the major ﬁgures of the age
CLST 275   World of Classical Greece   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  HIST 101, HIST 102, HIST 103, HIST 104, or equivalent;
please check requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions   
The course investigates the history, literature, art, culture and society of
Classical Greece (c. 480 B.C.E. to c. 300 B.C.E.), the origin of so much that
has impacted western civilization; its primary focus is Athens in the ﬁfth
and fourth centuries B.C.E.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Historical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Shakespeare Studies   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate knowledge about the signiﬁcant
political, cultural and social accomplishments, events, institutions, trends,
questions, concerns, and the major ﬁgures of the ageCLST 276   World of Classical Rome   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  HIST 101, HIST 102, HIST 103, HIST 104, or equivalent;
please check requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course investigates the historical development of the Roman people
through study of their history, politics, society and culture especially in
the 1st centuries B.C.E. and C.E., the turning points of Republican and
Imperial Rome.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Historical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Italian Studies, Shakespeare
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  CLST276/ROST276   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate knowledge about the signiﬁcant
political, cultural and social accomplishments, events, institutions, trends,
questions, and concerns, and the major ﬁgures of the age
CLST 277   World of Late Antiquity   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  HIST 101, HIST 102, HIST 103, HIST 104, or equivalent;
please check requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course investigates the historical development of the Roman Empire
in the 3rd to 5th centuries C.E. when the Mediterranean basin and Europe
re-evaluated their classical past and decisively set their course toward
Medieval and later governmental, religious and cultural history.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Historical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Italian Studies   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate knowledge about the signiﬁcant
political, cultural and social accomplishments, events, institutions, trends,
questions, and concerns, and the major ﬁgures of the age
CLST 278   Experiencing Mesopotamia   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces daily life in Ancient Mesopotamia. Students will
become acquainted with the ways in which individuals experienced
family, government, sports, art, and societal interaction in the "cradle of
civilization. "
Interdisciplinary Option:  Islamic World Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the emergence of certain aspects of daily
life in the world's ﬁrst civilizations and be able to contextualize these
developments within the Mesopotamian political and social sphere
CLST 279   Classical Rhetoric   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course explores how ancient Greeks and Romans practiced
and interrogated the 'craft of speech' (rhetorike techne), speciﬁcally
persuasive speech, especially as it would be delivered in public settings.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Outcomes:
Students will learn to assess the relationship of Classical rhetorical
literature to the world that produced and used it

--- Page 63 ---
94  College of Arts and Sciences
CLST 280   Romance Novel in Ancient World   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course introduces students to the ancient masterworks of Greek and
Roman ﬁction in the form of the novel.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Shakespeare Studies   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to appreciate and explain the ancient romance
novel, including the components of structure, characterization, theme,
narrative technique, style, and meaning
CLST 281   War and War Experience, Ancient and Modern   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course focuses upon the institution of war and its effects upon
individuals, especially in ancient Greece and modern times.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to understand better and demonstrate
knowledge of the many levels of active and passive war experience,
including participant/observer, combatant/non-combatant, and various
groups in and out of war, ancient and modern
CLST 283   Classical Comedy & Satire   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
In this course, students engage with great literary works of the ancient
world that combine social criticism with humor.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Shakespeare Studies   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate knowledge of such authors
as Aristophanes, Menander, Terence, and Petronius, and their works,
including the components of plot, characters and themes in the main
works of ancient comedy and satire; as well as understanding of the
historical, social and cultural conditions implicated with each work
CLST 288   Greek Literature in Translation   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students study a selected range of masterworks in ancient Greek
literature. (This is a special topics course.)
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate deeper knowledge and
understanding of selected Greek literature and its possible interpretations
CLST 289   Latin Literature in Translation   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students study a selected range of masterworks in Latin literature. (This
is a special topics course.)
Course equivalencies:  X-CLST289/ROST289   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate deeper knowledge and
understanding of selected Latin literature and its possible interpretations
CLST 295   Women in the Classical World   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course investigates the social roles available to women in the
ancient Greek and Roman worlds, together with beliefs, behaviors, and
cultural expressions supporting ancient Greek and Roman constructions
of womanhood.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Italian Studies, Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-CLST295/WOST295/WSGS295   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to identify and discuss distinctive Classical
patterns of thought and behavior regarding women and genderCLST 304   History of Ancient Philosophy   (3 Credit Hours)   
See PHIL 304: The History of Ancient Philosophy
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PHIL304/CLST304   
CLST 305   Ancient Political Thought   (3 Credit Hours)   
See Ancient Political Thought. (PLSC 304)
CLST 306   Science in Ancient Greece and Rome   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will focus on the origins of scientiﬁc thought and the
scientiﬁc method in the Classical world and broader Mediterranean. We
will survey the attitudes of Greeks and Romans towards physics, biology,
evolution, medicine, and animal behavior, and ask why science emerged
in Greece and Rome in the ﬁrst place.
Outcomes:
Students will learn about the history of ideas of nature, physics, biology,
medicine, and animal behavior in Ancient Greece, Rome, and the broader
Mediterranean
CLST 308   History of Rome to Constantine   (3 Credit Hours)   
See HIST 308A: Roman History to Constantine
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-CLST308/HIST308/ROST308   
CLST 309   Greece to Alexander the Great   (3 Credit Hours)   
See HIST 307: Greece to Alexander the Great
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-CLST309/HIST307   
CLST 315   Alexander & Hellenistic World   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course centers on the history, literature, art, culture and society of
the Hellenistic world from 336 to c. 31 B.C.E. and assays the impact of
Alexander the Great particularly in the eastern Mediterranean, the site of
the kingdoms established by the successors of Alexander; a particular
focus is Egypt and its capital, Alexandria.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate knowledge about the signiﬁcant
political, cultural and social events, institutions, questions, and concerns,
and the major ﬁgures of the age
CLST 316   Western Patristic Thought   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course centers on ﬁrst-hand study of the leading voices of early
Christianity in the western portion of the Roman Empire, from the ﬁrst
century C.E. to Augustine.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-CLST316/THEO316   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate detailed knowledge about the
western Church fathers, their works, and the impact of these upon the
Church and its teachings
CLST 318   Transformations of Rome in Late Antiquity   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the City of Rome itself from the third century up
to the reign of Charlemagne. It demonstrates that this period was a time
of gradual transformation and continuity. Both literary sources and the
archaeology and epigraphy of the City shall be combined to show that
barbarian invasions did not destroy the walls of Rome, and that the arrival
of Christianity did not cause the fall of classical culture.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, German Studies   
Course equivalencies:  HIST 339/CLST 318   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the working
of historical mechanisms, evaluate and critically analyze this historical
period

--- Page 64 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 95
CLST 324   Shipwreck Archaeology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students study how the technology of scuba diving combined with
scientiﬁc archaeology has created a new discipline of shipwreck
archaeology since the 1960s. They follow the history of the discipline
and explore shipwrecks from Bronze Age Greece to nineteenth-century
Chicago.
Course equivalencies:  XHIST324MSTU330ANTH347CLST324   
Outcomes:
Students understand the importance of vessels conserved at Skuldelev,
Lake Nemi and Uluburun for tracing the development of commerce and
technology among the Vikings, the Romans, and the Syro-Palestinians
of the Levant; They synthesize the research and conclusions of nautical
archaeologists worldwide and organize those ﬁndings for presentation
to a broader public in the coherent and imaginative form of their own
Museum
CLST 328   Pompeii and Herculaneum   (3 Credit Hours)   
The two best known Roman towns - Pompeii and Herculaneum - whose
remains were preserved by the eruption of Mt. Vesuvius in 79 CE - will
serve as a microcosm for understanding Roman society.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Course equivalencies:  HIST328/CLST328/ANTH328   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of how recent archaeological
discoveries have changed our view of Pompeii and Herculaneum and
learn to "read" such things as dining and bathing rituals, gladiator games,
and public and private architecture to gain insight into the structures of
Roman social and cultural life
CLST 334   Intro to Classical Archeology   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the main explorations and achievements in the
recovery of monuments of the ancient Greco-Roman world and on the
methodologies involved with the recoveries.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH334/CLST334   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to recognize and interpret selected sites
and monuments of the Greco-Roman world; They should be able to
demonstrate knowledge of methodologies and the technical vocabulary
of classical archaeology
CLST 334R   Introduction to Classical Archaeology - Rome/Italy Focus   (3
Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the main explorations and achievements in the
recovery of monuments of the ancient Greco-Roman world, particularly in
Rome and Italy, and on the methodologies involved with the recoveries.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Italian Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH334/CLST334   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to recognize and interpret selected sites
and monuments of the Greco-Roman world; They should be able to
demonstrate knowledge of methodologies and the technical vocabulary
of classical archaeology
CLST 340   Classical Arch-Greek Temples   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course centers on the art and architecture of selected ancient Greek
temples and upon the methodologies involved with their study and
understanding.
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH340/CLST340   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to recognize and interpret selected Greek
temples and demonstrate knowledge of the methodologies and technical
vocabulary associated with themCLST 342   Geography of The Ancient World   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the history of, ideas relating to, and expressions
about the geography of the ancient Greco-Roman world as a background
for the study of the ancient Mediterranean world.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate knowledge of the signiﬁcant
authors, texts, and concepts relating to ancient Mediterranean
geography; They should be able to demonstrate good comprehension of
technical terms associated with that geography
CLST 344   Ancient Greek and Roman Coins   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course centers on the numismatics of the ancient Mediterranean
world and upon coins as sources for the history, art, epigraphy and
mythology of ancient Greece and Rome.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to recognize, assess and interpret various
types of Greek and Roman coins; They should be able to demonstrate
good comprehension of technical terms associated with ancient
Mediterranean numismatics
CLST 348   Introduction to Museum Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
In collecting, preserving, interpreting, and presenting items of material
cultures, as the 20th century recognized and reconsidered, museums
function as mass-media, social "tracers" as well as "objects-subjects"
for economic and political elaboration. This course introduces students
to relevant concerns of objects, conceptualization and communication,
scholarship, cultural property, and identity.
Outcomes:
Students will gain understanding of how museums conserve cultural
artefacts, serve academic research, educate specialist and non-specialist
audiences, and focus social energy in local and touristic communities
CLST 361   Roman Political Theory & Practice   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course investigates the history, scope, principles and components
of ancient Roman political institutions from earliest times to that of
Justinian., as well as the legal appurtenances of those constituents.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Sociolegal Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-CLST361/ROST361   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to explain constituents of Roman civil and
legislative procedure, including assemblies, magistracies, courts, etc
CLST 362   Roman Law   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course investigates the history, scope, principles, and components
of Roman civil and private law from the archaic period to Justinian's
codiﬁcation.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Sociolegal Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-CLST362/PLSC371/ROST362   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to explain Roman legal and civil procedure,
including the legal concepts of property, the person, family law, and legal
obligations and issues, including contracts, civil wrongs, etc
CLST 363   Law & Legislature-Ancient Greece   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course investigates the history, scope, principles and components
of ancient Greek law and legislation from Homeric times through the
Classical Period., especially in Classical Athens.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Sociolegal Studies   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to explain Greek legal, civil and legislative
procedure, including concepts of justice and due process, as well as legal
issues such as inheritance, homicide, etc

--- Page 65 ---
96  College of Arts and Sciences
CLST 373   Daily Life in Ancient Greece   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course constitutes an investigation of the lives of individuals amidst
the societies of ancient Greece, including, among other topics, their
involvement in religion, politics, education, and their gender-relations.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate knowledge of what it was  like
to be alive and active in ancient Greece, what important issues and
concerns affected the ancient Greeks and how these are to be compared
and contrasted with their own life issues and concerns
CLST 374   Private Life of Ancient Romans   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course constitutes an investigation of the lives of individuals amidst
the society of ancient Rome (and the Roman Empire), including, among
other things, their involvements in religion, politics, education, and their
gender-relations.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-CLST374/ROST374   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate knowledge of what it was  like to
be alive and active in ancient Rome, what important issues and concerns
affected the ancient Romans (and subjects of Rome) individually, and
how these are to be compared and contrasted with their own life issues
and concerns
CLST 375   Archaeology of Early Greece   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course surveys archaeological research in Greece covering the
Paleolithic Age through the early Iron Age (c. 700 B.C.E.).
Course equivalencies:  X-CLST375/ANTH375   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate knowledge of the main
archaeological sites and their contents and the importance of
archaeological material for reconstructing knowledge about the
period; students should also be able to demonstrate knowledge of
archaeological methodology and how evidence is gathered, classiﬁed and
interpreted
CLST 376   Homeric Questions   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CLST 272 is recommended   
An advanced course in the Iliad and/or Odyssey enriched by study of
Homeric scholarship from the time of Wolf's Prolegomena (1795) to the
present day. Concentrations can include such key issues as "the Homeric
question, " the Parry-Lord theory, narratology, rhetorical criticism, and the
psychiatric interpretations of Dr. Jonathan.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to place the Homeric poems into their historical and
literary context
CLST 378   Sport in Ancient Greece & Rome   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the practices of and attitudes toward athletics of
the ancient Greeks and Romans.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-CLST378/PHED202   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate knowledge about the
educational, philosophical, and political signiﬁcance of athlet ics from
Homeric times through the Roman Empire; They should be able to assess
and interpret written, artistic and archaeological evidence relating to
ancient athleticsCLST 380   Research in Classical Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students complete a semester-long research project on a topic in
Classical Studies.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will improve research methods and produce a research paper
that engages with both primary sources and secondary scholarship
CLST 381   Directed Study   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
This course is centered on extensive and in-depth study of a selected
author or topic involving ancient Greece or Rome. (This is a special study
course, carried on by students usually under the direction of a faculty
member of the department.)
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate deeper understanding of the
selected author or topic
CLST 382   Internship in Classical Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students complete a semester-long internship (100 hours minimum) that
builds on their training in Classical Studies.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will gain practical experience while applying theories and
techniques gained from coursework
CLST 383   The Humanism of Antiquity I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course centers on extensive readings of pertinent classical authors
from Homer to Plato, tracing the evolution of aspects of human belief.
(This is a capstone course for majors in Classical Studies.)
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate deeper understanding of the
nature of the human individual and the relationship of the human person
both to the material and spiritual world; They should be able to assess
and interpret ancient Greek texts concerned with these issues and topics
CLST 384   The Humanism of Antiquity II   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course centers on extensive readings of pertinent classical authors
from early Rome to the High Empire, tracing the evolution of aspects of
human belief. (This is a capstone course for majors in Classical Studies.)
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate deeper understanding of the
nature of the human individual and the relationship of the human person
both to the material and spiritual world; They should be able to assess
and interpret ancient Latin texts concerned with these issues and topics
CLST 385   Historical Classic Greek Literature to 200 A.D   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This courses surveys important authors and works of Greek literature in a
chronological and topical fashion from Homer to the Hellenistic period.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate detailed knowledge of authors
and works; they should be able to assess and interpret texts covered
CLST 386   History of Classical Roman Lit   (3 Credit Hours)   
This courses surveys important authors and works of Roman (i.e., Latin)
literature in a chronological and topical fashion from the 2nd cent. B.C.E.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-CLST386/ROST386   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate detailed knowledge of authors
and works; they should be able to assess and interpret the texts covered

--- Page 66 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 97
CLST 388   Classical Backgrounds I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores various environments of Greek literature, art,
religion, etc., or other aspects of Greek civilization. (This is a special
topics course.)
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate deeper understanding of the
nature of these environments or aspects
CLST 389   Classical Backgrounds II   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores various environments of Latin literature, Roman art,
religion, etc., or other aspects of Roman civilization. (This is a special
topics course.)
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate deeper understanding of the
nature of these environments or aspects
CLST 390   Fieldwork Greek Sites/Museums   (1-4 Credit Hours)   
This course comprises a study Greek or Roman art, monuments,
topography or other cultural or historical artifacts or areas of interest on
site. This study is accomplished through illustrated lectures or (when on-
site) on-site lectures. (This is a special topics course.)
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate detailed knowledge of the
material remains of ancient Mediterranean civilizations and the cultures
within them
CLST 391   Topics in Comp Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course centers on a comparison of ancient Greek or Roman
literature with literatures of other times and other cultures. (This is a
special topics course.)
Course equivalencies:  X-LITR391/CLST391/ENGL391   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate detailed knowledge of the
authors and works chosen for it
CLST 392   Theories of Myth   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course surveys important theoretical models used to interpret the
mythology of Classical Greece and Rome and other cultures.
Course equivalencies:  X-CLST392/LITR392   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate a sophisticated understanding
of different interpretive theories applicable to mythology, their
advantages and limitations; They should be able to apply these theories
and to demonstrate what learning may be derived from them
CLST 395   Topography of Rome   (3 Credit Hours)   
The subject of this course is the topography and monuments of ancient
Rome, from the city's beginnings through the Republican and Imperial
periods to the time of Constantine. This study is accomplished through
illustrated lectures or (when taught in Rome) on-site lectures.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Course equivalencies:  CLST395/ROST395   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate detailed knowledge of the
history of the buildings and monuments of ancient Rome
Computer Science (COMP)
COMP 102   Web Design and Multimedia Publishing   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces foundations of the world wide web technology,
HTML, and multimedia publishing techniques. Topics include HTML
syntax, CSS, XML, RSS, and various multimedia formats.
Outcomes:
An understanding of the technologies behind web sites and the ability to
use them effectivelyCOMP 104   Computer Animation   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course introduces techniques for understanding and developing
dynamic and interactive media by using sound, motion, images, and text.
Relevant software knowledge areas are covered.
Outcomes:
Ability to publish created animated media projects to the web in a
process that involves understanding human interface design
COMP 111   History of Computing   (3 Credit Hours)   
The social and organizational history of humanity is intricately entangled
with the history of technology in general and the technology of
information in particular. Advances in this area have often been closely
involved in social and political transformations. While the contemporary
period is often referred to by such names as the Computing and
Information Age, this is the culmination of a series of historical
transformations that have been centuries in the making. This course will
provide a venue for students to learn about history through the evolution
of number systems and arithmetic, calculating and computing machines,
and advanced communication technology via the internet.
Course equivalencies:  X - COMP 111 / HIST 279C   
COMP 112   Loyola University Technology Ensemble   (1 Credit Hour)   
Loyola University Technology Ensemble (LUTE) is a performing
ensemble with a composition & engineering component. Its primary
instrumentation is electronic or electroacoustic, encompassing digital
and analogue electronic instruments, live coding, circuit bending, and
repurposing of devices or objects, etc. LUTE will appear in public at least
once during each semester.
Course equivalencies:  X-COMP 112/MUSC 112   
Outcomes:
Collaborate to compose, engineer, and perform unique technology-driven
musical experiences; design interface modules for electroacoustic
performance; encode musical ideas in software or digital musical
instruments; perform publicly
COMP 122   Introduction to Digital Music   (3 Credit Hours)   
Computers and digital tools have been seeping into the world of music,
this course aims to explore this newly formed territory. This course is
intended for students who wish to learn more about electronic music,
signal processing, and algorithmic music composition.
Knowledge Area:  Quantitative Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  X-COMP 122/MUSC 122   
Outcomes:
Understanding of the physics of musical sound and digital audio, facility
with hands-on applications of algorithmic music composition and
musicology, and ability to design and render digital instruments
COMP 125   Visual Information Processing   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course, intended primarily for non-majors, provides an introduction
to computer programming using a language well-suited to beginning
programmers and practical applications, e.g., Visual Basic.Net. Restricted
to Freshman or Sophomore standing OR majors other than COMP-BS
AND CSEC-BS AND SWEN-BS.
Knowledge Area:  Quantitative Knowledge   
Outcomes:
Understanding of computer mechanisms for representing and analyzing
numerical and logical information and the power of programmability;
practical ability to implement useful computing tools

--- Page 67 ---
98  College of Arts and Sciences
COMP 141   Introduction to Computing Tools and Techniques   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course introduces students to the Unix shell environment and
essential tools for succeeding in computer science degrees. Students
who complete this course will develop fluency in the Unix (Linux)
environment, which is essential for solving problems in academic,
research, and professional computing disciplines.
COMP 144   Cybersecurity for All   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will cover cybersecurity fundamentals, including how to think
like an adversary, general awareness of cybersecurity and privacy, and
cybercrime. This course is intended for any student who wants to know
more about general cybersecurity and privacy issues in the "cyber" world.
Outcomes:
Ability to quantitatively and qualitatively assess cybersecurity and
privacy risks, and understanding fundamentals of protecting security and
privacy in a cyberworld and connections to cybercrime and other real-life
scenarios
COMP 150   Introduction to Computing   (3 Credit Hours)   
The world overflows with electronic data. This course introduces
programming in a simple, powerful language like Python, with selection,
repetition, functions, graphical effects, and dynamic interaction with
the Internet, plus connections to lower level computer organization and
computer implications in the wider world. Restricted to Freshman or
Sophomore standing OR majors other than COMP-BS AND CSEC-BS AND
SWEN-BS.
Knowledge Area:  Quantitative Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  ACCOMP 150/COMP 150   
Outcomes:
Empowerment to manage and transform masses of data; understanding
of technical, societal, and ethical issues involved
COMP 163   Discrete Structures   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 110 or MATH 117 or placement into MATH 118 or
higher   
This course covers the mathematical foundations of computer science,
including such topics as complexity of algorithms, modular arithmetic,
induction and proof techniques, graph theory, combinatorics, Boolean
algebra, logic circuits, and automata.
Course equivalencies:  COMP211/COMP163   
Outcomes:
The student will be prepared for the study of advanced ideas in computer
science, from cryptography to databases to algorithms to computer
architecture
COMP 170   Introduction to Object-Oriented Programming   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 110 or MATH 118 or Placement into a higher
MATH course, or COMP 125 or COMP 141 or COMP 150 or COMP 180
or permission or SCPS student; Prior experience with a procedural
programming language is sufﬁcient to obtain permission to enroll   
This programming intensive course with its weekly lab component
introduces basic concepts of object-oriented programming in a language
such as Java.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics   
Course equivalencies:  COMP170/ISOM/INFS370   
Outcomes:
Ability to take a problem, break it into parts, specify algorithms, and
express a solution in terms of variables, data types, input/output,
repetition, choice, arrays, subprograms, classes, and objects; Ability to
judge a good programCOMP 171   Scripting Languages   (1 Credit Hour)   
Scripting languages are rapid prototyping languages that are used
extensively. This course covers the principles, syntax and semantics of
widely used scripting languages.
Outcomes:
Students will learn how a program can be put together quickly and
efﬁciently to solve problems
COMP 180   Computing and Data Analysis for the Sciences   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 110 or MATH 117 (or any higher MATH course such
as 118, 131, 132, 161, 162) with grade of at least C- or placement into
MATH 118   
Scientiﬁc computing emphasizes data analysis and visualization
in a scientiﬁc context - analyzing data quickly for understandi ng by
the individual, sharing automated workflows with collaborators, and
preparing results for later publication. This course will emphasize rapid,
interactive, and reproducible collaborative analysis of data for scientiﬁc
contribution.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Outcomes:
At the end of this course, students will be well versed in the use of a
speciﬁc, interactive environment for data analysis (likely Python, R, or
MATLAB as indicated in the course notes) for analyzing data and sharing
results
COMP 215   Object Oriented Programming with Mathematics   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 132 or MATH 162 or MATH 162A   
This is an introductory programming course for students interested in
mathematics and scientiﬁc computing. Students will program primarily in
a general object-oriented language such as Python, with supplementary
exercises in a computer algebra system. Examples will be drawn
primarily from applications of calculus, elementary number theory, and
cryptography.
Course equivalencies:  X-COMP215/MATH215   
Outcomes:
Students will learn basic scripting and object-oriented programming, with
the goal of being able to solve mathematical and scientiﬁc problems
COMP 231   Data Structures & Algorithms for Informatics   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (MATH/COMP 215 OR COMP 170) AND (COMP 141 OR
AMTH-BS OR MATH-BS) Advisory: MATH/COMP 215 preferred   
This course introduces data structures and algorithms that are essential
for data science and informatics. Here we will focus on identifying the
right method for storing data and using the most efﬁcient algorithm for
analysis. A subset of data structures and algorithms fundamental to
computer science will be covered.
Outcomes:
Students will learn fundamental data structures and algorithms
frequently used in informatics and data science; Students will be able to
apply this knowledge for data analysis
COMP 250   Introduction to Scientiﬁc and Technical Communication   (3
Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  A minimum grade of C- in COMP 125 or COMP 150 or
COMP 170 or COMP/MATH 215   
This course trains students in writing clear, readable, and well-
organized technical communications, including presentations, end-user
documentation, internal project documentation, and scientiﬁc papers.
Outcomes:
Students will learn to write clear technical documentation

--- Page 68 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 99
COMP 251   Introduction to Database Systems   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 125 or COMP 150 or COMP 170 or COMP 180 or
COMP/MATH 215   
This course explores ways in which data collections are organized,
stored, analyzed, and manipulated. Topics include relational databases,
the SQL query language, and the basics of XML and web interfaces to
data sets. Applications from a variety of domains illustrate the course's
key concepts.
Course equivalencies:  COMP 251 / COMP 368   
Outcomes:
Students will organize data in ways to emphasize relationships, write
simple programs to process, visualize and graphically display data, mine
data for patterns, and design web interfaces to data
COMP 264   Introduction to Computer Systems   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 141 and (COMP 170 or MATH/COMP 215) and
(coreq or prereq of COMP 163 or MATH 201); COMP 163 coreq or prereq
and COMP 170 prereq preferred   
This course studies the hierarchy of abstractions and implementations
that constitute a modern computer system, with a particular focus on
issues of interest to programmers, typically including some systems
programming instruction.
Outcomes:
Understanding of system issues that affect the performance, correctness,
or utility of user-level programs
COMP 266   Digital Electronics Lab   (3 Credit Hours)   
Combinatorial and sequential logic devices, oscillators and timers,
microprocessor components, CPU operation, computer architecture and
digital/analog conversion.
Course equivalencies:  X-PHYS266/COMP266   
Outcomes:
Students will gain a working knowledge of digital electronics design
and its application to computers, an understanding of CPU design and
operation and the ability to document and report experimental results
COMP 271   Data Structures I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 141 and COMP 170 and (co-requisite or pre-requisite
of COMP 163 (preferred) or MATH 201); For Bioinformatics majors, pre-
requisite of COMP 141 and COMP 170; For SCPS students, pre-requisite
of COMP 170   
This course studies basic data structures including array lists, linked lists,
stacks, queues, binary trees, and hash tables. Efﬁciency of data structure
operations, study of recursion, applications of data structures, and simple
analysis of algorithms are covered.
Outcomes:
Students learn linear data structures and the performance of their
operations, and they learn to solve simple computational problems by
designing suitable algorithms and efﬁcient data structures
COMP 272   Data Structures II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 271 and (COMP 163 or MATH 201) and (MATH 131
or MATH 161)   
This course studies advanced abstract data types, such as sets, maps,
and graphs, and their implementation using arrays and dynamically
allocated nodes in an object-oriented language. The course also studies
the performance of the data structures built-in operations and related
algorithms such as sorting, searching, and traversing.
Outcomes:
Students learn non-linear data structures and runtime performance of
their operations, solve computational problems by choosing suitable data
structures, and implement algorithms within the object-oriented paradigmCOMP 301   Introduction to Computer Security   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 170   
This is an introductory course on computer security covering a
broad range of topics, including basic security goals, encryption,
penetration testing, software exploitation, reverse engineering, packet
snifﬁng, and secure coding. The course teaches both the principles
and concepts of computer security as well as some of the tools and
technologies. Students will learn to think like an adversary, ﬁnd and
exploit vulnerabilities in computer and network systems, understand
cryptography and security goals, and learn about some of the commonly-
used tools.
COMP 305   Database Administration   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 231 or COMP 251 or COMP 271   
Business and scientiﬁc institutions increasingly use large commercial
data base systems. This course teaches the theory and practice for the
deﬁnition, security, backup, tuning, and recovery of these systems.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to use theory and pragmatic approaches to deﬁne
and implement realistic solutions for large database administration
environments
COMP 306   Data Mining   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (COMP 251 or COMP 353) and (STAT 103 or STAT 203
or STAT 335 or ISSCM 241 or PSYC 304 or instructor permission) and
(COMP 150 or COMP 170)   
This course covers theory and practice of the analysis (mining) of
extremely large datasets. With data growing at exponential rates
knowledge gathering and exploration techniques are essential for gaining
useful intelligence.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to deﬁne and critically analyze data mining
approaches for ﬁelds such as security, healthcare, science and marketing
COMP 309   Numerical Methods   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (COMP 170 or MATH/COMP 215), and [ (MATH 212, and
MATH 264) or MATH 266]   
This course offers an introduction to topics such as error analysis,
interpolation and approximation, and the numerical solution of problems
involving differentiation, integration, and ordinary and partial differential
equations. Students will obtain an understanding of how numerical
methods can be used in a variety of areas of mathematics.
Course equivalencies:  X-COMP309/MATH309   
COMP 310   Operating Systems   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 264 and COMP 271   
This course introduces principles of operating systems and how they are
designed. Various important parts of operating systems such as memory
addressing, ﬁle structures, processes, and threads are covered.
Outcomes:
Students will learn the different parts of an operating system at a
functional level and how they interact with each other
COMP 312   Open Source Software Practicum   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 231 or COMP 271 or instructor permission   
This course will cover the fundamentals of Free and Open Source
software development. Topics to be addressed include licensing, Linux,
typical software development tools, applications, and techniques for
managing remote servers.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will learn to implement projects involving Free and Open Source
software and learn how to participate in open-source projects effectively

--- Page 69 ---
100  College of Arts and Sciences
COMP 313   Object-Oriented Design   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 272   
Object-orientation continues to be a dominant approach to software
development. This intermediate programming-intensive course studies
the use of classes and objects with an emphasis on collaboration among
objects.
Outcomes:
A thorough understanding of the principles of object-orientation:
abstraction, delegation, inheritance, and polymorphism; exposure to basic
design patterns; programming experience in mainstream object-oriented
languages such as C++ and Java
COMP 314   Problem Solving Strategies I   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 271   
Corequisite or This course allows students to sharpen problem-solving
skills along with, or as part of, the ACM Programming Team. Groups
generally work on old competition problems on alternate weekends, with
short follow-ups during the next week.
Course equivalencies:  COMP281/COMP314   
Outcomes:
Ability to work in small groups, quickly and accurately assessing
and solving focused problems involving many sorts of programming
knowledge
COMP 315   Problem Solving Strategies II   (2 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 314   
This course allows students to sharpen problem-solving skills along with,
or as part of, the ACM Programming Team. Groups generally work on
old competition problems on alternate weekends, with short follow-ups
during the next week.
Outcomes:
Ability to lead a small group, quickly and accurately assessing and
solving focused problems involving many sorts of programming
knowledge
COMP 317   Social, Legal, and Ethical Issues in Computing   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Any COMP course and Ethics Core   
This course covers social, legal, and ethical issues commonly arising in
key areas related to computing technologies.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Sociolegal Studies   
Outcomes:
Understanding of laws and issues in areas such as privacy, encryption,
freedom of speech, copyrights and patents, computer crime, and
computer/software reliability and safety; understanding of philosophical
perspectives such as utilitarianism versus deontological ethics and
basics of the U.S. legal system
COMP 319   Introduction to UNIX   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 170 and COMP/MATH 215   
An introduction to the UNIX operating system. Topics include ﬁles and
directories, electronic mail, security, advanced ﬁle systems, network
utilities, network ﬁle sharing, text utilities, shell programming, UNIX
internals, UNIX system administration (essentials), the X windowing
system, systems programming, and secure shell (SSH).
Course equivalencies:  COMP219/COMP319   
Outcomes:
After taking this course, students will develop working knowledge of Unix
and be able to use modern Unix operating systems such as Linux, OS X,
or SolarisCOMP 321   Computational Aspects of Modeling and Simulation   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  STAT 203 or STAT 335   
This course uses SAS and R languages to address statistical modelling
and to conduct statistical simulations to assess linear, generalized linear,
nonlinear and complex models and experimental designs.
Course equivalencies:  X-STAT356/COMP321/STAT321   
Outcomes:
Students will gain practical experience and knowledge in real-world
statistical situations for which underlying theory is cumbersome or
intractable
COMP 322   Software Development for Wireless and Mobile Devices   (3
Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 231 or COMP 271   
This course will focus on the unique challenges, methods, tools, and
technologies for developing software applications for wireless and
mobile devices, smart mobile phones, and the growing world of mobile
connected devices.
Outcomes:
1) Understand challenges of software design for resource limited devices;
2) Know the architecture of one or more state-of-the-art mobile operating
systems; 3) Gain experience designing, developing, testing embedded
software
COMP 323   Game Design and Development   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 231 or COMP 271   
This course studies design, development, and publication of games and
game-based applications. This includes example games and designers,
industry practices, and team-based project development.
Outcomes:
Students will acquire an awareness of different game design and
development methods, technologies, and techniques suitable for the
development of a variety of game based environments
COMP 324   Client-Side Web Development   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 231 or COMP 271   
This course covers the design and implementation of the presentation
layer of dynamic web applications. Topics include visual design and
usability, multi-channel and multi-modal applications, markup of static
and dynamic content, and client-side executable content. HTML/CSS/
JavaScript are introduced quickly, followed up with the stack of current
JavaScript frameworks and libraries used in practice.
Outcomes:
Familiarity with the most common effective tools for creating responsive,
dynamic, and interactive web content with client-side tools
COMP 325   Rapid Application Development Methodology   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 271 with a grade of C- or above   
This course will teach students how to effect rapid application
development using a software framework such as the .NET Framework.
Particular emphasis will be placed on enhancing object-oriented
programming skills using a language such as C#.NET .
Outcomes:
Students will gain enhanced skill in object-oriented programming
and development of such applications as database applications, web
applications, Microsoft .NET services, Silverlight applications, and WCF
Services

--- Page 70 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 101
COMP 326   Digital Music Programming   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  One of: COMP/MUSC 122, MUSC 201, COMP 125,
COMP 150, COMP 170, permission of instructor   
This course is an exploration of coding for music applications.
Topics include digital audio and synthesis theory and basic, musical
data structures, and principles of computer music composition and
interactivity. Students will design synthesis and sampling instruments,
algorithmic music generators, signal processors, and interactive control
systems using one or more music programming languages.
Course equivalencies:  X-COMP 326/MUSC 326   
Outcomes:
Create software modules for processing digital audio, MIDI, and
generative music; develop interactive interfaces; export applications or
modules; produce a portfolio of creative projects in areas of real-time
audio/MIDI processing
COMP 328   Algebraic Coding Theory   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 212   
Codes with algebraic structure for error control are examined. Block
codes including Hamming codes and Reed-Muller codes, BCH codes, and
other cyclic codes with algebraic structure and other cyclic codes and
their implementation are treated. Other topics may include: convolutional
codes, efﬁciency considerations, and Shannon's fundamental theorem of
information theory.
Course equivalencies:  X-MATH328/COMP328   
COMP 329   Natural Language Processing   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (COMP 231 or COMP 271) and (MATH 131 or MATH 161)
and (STAT 103 or STAT 203 or STAT 335 or ISSCM 241 or PSYC 304 or
instructor permission)   
This course provides an introduction to the ﬁeld of natural language
processing (NLP). NLP is concerned with computational approaches to
analyzing, generating, and understanding human language. This course
will introduce the students to the problems, methods, and applications of
NLP .
Outcomes:
Students will become familiar with such areas of natural language
processing as information retrieval, sentiment analysis, machine
translation, document classiﬁcation, and question answering
COMP 330   Software Engineering   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 271   
Students learn real-world theory and techniques organizations use
to create high-quality software on time. Students work on a large
programming team to create plans, review progress, measure quality, and
make written and oral analyses of their project.
Outcomes:
Students will experience process based development, understand the
dynamics of a professional software organization, and develop skills for
implementing software with others
COMP 331   Mathematical Foundations of Cryptography   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Theoretical Foundations: MATH 201 or COMP 363;
Programming Foundations: COMP125 or COMP150 or COMP170 or
COMP 180 or COMP/MATH 215   
This course introduces the formal foundations of cryptography and also
investigates some well-known standards and protocols, including private
and public key cryptosystems, hashing, digital signatures, RSA, DSS, PGP ,
and related topics.
Course equivalencies:  X-COMP331/MATH331   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of cryptosystems widely used to
protect data security on the internet, and be able to apply the ideas in
new situations as neededCOMP 332   Requirements Engineering   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 330   
This course aims to equip students with techniques for successful
requirements analysis and requirements engineering (RE) of software-
intensive systems. Students will learn a systematic process of developing
requirements through co-operative problem analysis, representation, and
validation.
Outcomes:
Students will learn and apply the current state of the art in requirements
engineering and a systematic method for engineering high-quality
requirements on realistic large-scale projects
COMP 333   Web Services Programming   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 313 Outcomes: An understanding of the design
space of software architecture; Proﬁciency in designing, implementing,
deploying and composing systems from web services   
Web services are building blocks for enterprise applications that use
open data exchange standards and transport protocols to exchange data
with calling clients. This course studies the architectures, frameworks,
and tools required to develop and compose web services and clients, as
well as integrate service-oriented systems with legacy systems.
COMP 335   Formal Methods in Software Engineering   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 272   
As embedded and networked systems are becoming ever more
ubiquitous, we depend increasingly on the correctness of the software
that controls such systems. This course studies the formal speciﬁcation,
veriﬁcation, and synthesis of software.
Outcomes:
An understanding of the role of formal methods in the construction of
software systems; proﬁciency in representative methods and tools, such
as UML and ESC
COMP 336   Markup Languages   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 231 or COMP 271   
This course is concerned with XML and its various component
frameworks. The core frameworks to be covered include Document
Object Model (DOM), Simple API for XML processing (SAX), the XML Path
language (XPath), and XSLT .
Outcomes:
After taking this course, students will have working knowledge of
XML and its connections to other ideas such as HTML, object models,
relational databases, and network services
COMP 337   Concurrent Programming   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 313   
Many real-world software systems rely on concurrency for performance
and modularity. This programming-intensive course covers analysis,
design, implementation, and testing of concurrent software systems.
Outcomes:
An in-depth understanding of event-based and thread-based views of
concurrency; the ability to develop concurrent software components
using suitable languages, frameworks, and design patterns; familiarity
with object-oriented modeling and development tools and test-driven
development

--- Page 71 ---
102  College of Arts and Sciences
COMP 338   Server-based Software Development   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 313   
Server-based web applications and services have become part of
everyday life. This programming-intensive course covers analysis,
design, implementation, and testing of multi-tiered server-based software
systems along with typical tier-speciﬁc technologies.
Outcomes:
An understanding of software architecture and integration in the
development of multi-tiered server-based software; familiarity with object-
oriented modeling and development tools and test-driven development
COMP 339   Distributed Systems   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 313 or COMP 363 or COMP 310   
This course covers topics in modern distributed systems. This course
places special emphasis on scalability (performance), reliability/fault
tolerance, and security.
Outcomes:
After taking this course, students should understand the essential
ingredients of distributed systems and how to build distributed systems
that are resilient to transient network failures and other potential
anomalies
COMP 340   Computer Forensics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (COMP 150 or COMP 170 or COMP/MATH 215) and
(COMP 264 or COMP 317 or COMP 343)   
The course introduces the fundamentals of computer/network/internet
forensics, analysis and investigations.
Outcomes:
The student will learn computer software and hardware relevant for
analysis, and investigative and evidence-gathering protocols
COMP 341   Human-Computer Interaction   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 231 or COMP 271   
Limitations in human-computer interaction are as much due to human
factors, cognitive limits, expectations, motivations, and inertia as
technological capabilities. Systematic methods will be used to evaluate
and improve designs through both qualitative feedback and statistical,
hypothesis-driven testing on web pages, GUIs, mobile apps and many
non-traditional interfaces.
Outcomes:
Students will be exposed to a wide array of non-traditional computing
interfaces, and be able to evaluate, design and develop better human-
computer interfaces using research-based, systematic approaches
COMP 342   Introduction to Web Application Development   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 170   
An introduction to webpage development using JavaScript, jQuery and
associated client-side tools.
Course equivalencies:  X- DIGH403/CPST342/COMP342   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to create webpages using JavaScript and related
tools and protocols, and interface a webpage with a database
COMP 343   Computer Networks   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 264 or COMP 271 or instructor permission   
This course surveys packet-switched computer networks and attendant
communication protocols, using the TCP/IP protocol suite on which
the Internet is based as the primary model. Some programming may be
required.
Outcomes:
Students will understand how the Internet is constructed, how data is
routed to its destination, how connections are made, how congestion is
handled, and how security can be addressedCOMP 344   Hands-on Approach to Security & Privacy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 301   
This course will introduce students to privacy, cybersecurity
competitions, and how computers can be compromised and secured.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge and competency in the
cybersecurity and privacy ﬁelds by participating in competitions, capture
the flag, cybersecurity challenges, cybersecurity certiﬁcations, and other
cybersecurity events/activities; Students will apply what they know in a
realistic professional setting, usually working in a team
COMP 345   Internet of Things Device and Application Security   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 301   
It introduces the Internet of Things (IoT) comprising embedded devices
and cloud-based resources. The course studies concepts and techniques
used in designing and implementing IoT systems providing valuable
functionality to consumers and valuable data to organizations. The
course discusses methods for addressing related safety, security,
reliability, and privacy concerns.
Outcomes:
Ability to design and implement secure software and establish safety,
security, reliability, and privacy goals for embedded and IoT -based
systems; Ability to visualize and analyze data from an IoT system
COMP 346   Telecommunications   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 264 or COMP 271   
This course introduces the fundamental concepts of telecommunication
networks, including requirements of voice networks, analog versus digital
transmission, data link protocols, SONET , ATM, cellular phone systems,
and the architecture of the current telephone system.
Outcomes:
Students will understand how modern telephone systems work
COMP 347   Intrusion Detection and Security   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 301   
This course covers techniques and algorithms for detecting unusual
usage patterns that typically signal a break-in, including techniques for
detecting evasive or stealthy attacks. Also covered are differences in
detecting local versus network intruders. Additional topics: computer
viruses, computer security management, computer forensics.
Outcomes:
Students will learn to conﬁgure ID systems (eg SNORT) and analyze their
output; They will also understand both network-based and host-based
monitoring techniques
COMP 348   Network Security   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 301   
This course involves a discussion of network security through the
following areas which lead to an overall security posture: Security
Frameworks, Implementation Security, System Best Practices, a Case for
Centralized Conﬁguration Management, Network Security Architecture,
Standards Adherence, Risk Assessments, Testing and Review and
Application Security.
Outcomes:
An understanding of how to secure networks using encryption,
authentication, perimeter protection, restricted access policies, intrusion
detection/prevention and other security frameworks

--- Page 72 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 103
COMP 349   Wireless Networking and Security   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 301 Outcomes: Students will gain an understanding
of wireless networking, protocols, and standards and security issues   
This course will explore the wireless standards, authentication issues,
and common conﬁguration models for commercial versus institutional
installations and analyze the security concerns associated with this ad-
hoc method of networking.
COMP 351   Network Management   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 264 or COMP 271   
This course introduces the current state of the art in automated
management of computer networks, including protocols such as SNMP
and its attendant naming conventions, network management systems,
and important issues in administrative network conﬁguration.
Outcomes:
Students will become familiar with the SNMP protocol, with how large-
scale Network Management Systems operate and are conﬁgured, and
with advanced network conﬁguration
COMP 352   Computer Vulnerabilities   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 264 and COMP 301   
This course will introduce students to computer vulnerabilities at the
machine-code level, including viruses, browser vulnerabilities, buffer and
heap overflows, return-to-libc attacks and others.
Outcomes:
Describe some recent computer software vulnerabilities at the machine-
code level and how they can be leveraged into an attack; Run a virus in a
virtual-machine sandbox with appropriate monitoring
COMP 353   Database Programming   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 231 or COMP 251 or COMP 271   
This course introduces relational and object databases to support
database creation and application development. Use of commercial
database products will give a practical orientation.
Course equivalencies:  COMP353/BIOI353   
Outcomes:
Students will learn SQL, database design and application development
using the latest software tools; Students will also learn techniques for
web based data retrieval and manipulation
COMP 358   Big Data Analytics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ((Database experience: COMP 251 OR COMP 305 OR
COMP 353) AND (Analytics experience: COMP 306 OR COMP 379 OR
STAT 338 OR STAT 308)) OR permission of instructor   
In this course, large data sets will be leveraged to solve challenging
analytics problems. With more samples, analytics can use more complex
learning models to automate more feature combinations for more robust
model tuning, selection, and validation. Parallel, distributed processing
will be performed with Apache Spark and Hadoop.
Outcomes:
Python or R will be used with parallel frameworks to perform proper
model selection when testing large combinations of features, models,
hyperparameters, and ensembles, with additional emphasis on deep
learning
COMP 362   Computer Architecture   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course covers computer design from the level of digital logic and
circuit design to high-level computer organization.
Course equivalencies:  COMP 260 / COMP 275 / COMP 362   
Outcomes:
A basic understanding of how computers work at many levels and how
to use various analytical tools and techniques to design computer
componentsCOMP 363   Design and Analysis Computer Algorithms   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 272 and (MATH 132 or MATH 162)   
Theoretical design and analysis of computer algorithms may be
supplemented by small amounts of programming.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics   
Course equivalencies:  X-COMP363/BIOI363   
Outcomes:
The ability to design and analyze efﬁcient algorithms; understanding
of the necessary models and mathematical tools; understanding of a
variety of useful data structures and fundamental algorithms; exposure
to the classiﬁcation of computational problems into different complexity
classes
COMP 364   High Performance Computing   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 264 and COMP 272 Outcomes: Students will learn
how to engineer solutions to practical problems in multiprocessor
architectures and using large physical memories   
This course covers parallel architectures and parallel models of
computation. Algorithms for achieving high performance in various
computational contexts are discussed. Models such as shared memory,
message passing, and hybrid modes of computing are introduced.
COMP 366   Microcomputer Design & Interfacing   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 271 Outcomes: Students will gain a working
knowledge of interfacing techniques and design, hands-on experience
with professional interfacing hardware and software, and the ability to
document and report experimental results   
This course covers computer architecture, CPU logic, data acquisition,
signal conditioning, analog/digital conversion and computer interfacing.
Course equivalencies:  X-PHYS366/COMP366   
COMP 367   Robotics Software Development   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 271; COMP 313 recommended   
This course is an introduction to robotics and robotic software
development using humanoid robots. The course will use modern robot
platforms and provide hands on experience with robotic sensor systems,
motion and navigation, robot behavior planning and implementation.
Outcomes:
Students will explore the history of robotics, overview the theory of
autonomous robotic systems, and develop complete robot projects
COMP 369   Product Invention and 3D Printing   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores the role of products in the economy and how things
are made, including: product conceptualization and design, physical
design vs. design of things that are not physical, rapid prototyping, 3D
printing, 2D conceptualization and sketching, 3D modeling, and design
reviews.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to visualize ideas via sketching basic shapes,
create 3D models using 3D modeling software, use a 3D Printer, and give
constructive feedback in peer review sessions
COMP 370   Software Quality   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 330   
The course teaches software testing and quality control concepts,
principles, and techniques including black box and white box testing,
coverage testing, test case development, and regression testing.
Outcomes:
Students will learn how to prevent errors, how to get 'bugs' out of
software, and be able to apply this knowledge in other courses and
projects

--- Page 73 ---
104  College of Arts and Sciences
COMP 371   Programming Languages   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 264 and COMP 272   
There are over two thousand programming languages. This course
studies several languages that represent the much smaller number of
underlying principles and paradigms.
Outcomes:
An understanding of key principles and paradigms underlying the
design and implementation of commonly used programming languages;
exposure to formal mechanisms for describing language syntax and
semantics; programming experience in several representative languages
COMP 373   Advanced Object-Oriented Programming   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 313 Outcomes: Proﬁciency in the use of object-
oriented languages, frameworks, and patterns; advanced understanding
of key language mechanisms such as delegation, inheritance,
polymorphism, and reflection; familiarity with object-oriented modeling
and development tools and test-driven development   
Object-orientation continues to be a dominant approach to software
development. This advanced programming-intensive course studies
object-oriented analysis, design, and implementation from a design
patterns perspective.
COMP 376   Formal Languages & Automata   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 163 or MATH 201 or MATH 212 or MATH 266   
This course introduces formal language theory, including such topics
as ﬁnite automata and regular expressions, pushdown automata and
context-free grammars, Turing machines, undecidability, and the halting
problem.
Course equivalencies:  X-COMP376/MATH376   
Outcomes:
An understanding of the theoretical underpinnings of computability and
complexity in computer science
COMP 377   IT Project Management   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 231 or COMP 251 or COMP 271   
This course is an introduction to the philosophy and practice of project
management. The course involves a student group project to investigate
and plan a 'real world' IT project that speciﬁes project objectives,
schedules, work breakdown structure and responsibilities, a written
interim report, and a ﬁnal oral and written report.
Outcomes:
Students will learn time management, work-flow management, and team
dynamics to design, implement and test large-scale software projects
COMP 378   Artiﬁcial Intelligence   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 231 or COMP 271   
This course introduces artiﬁcial intelligence theory and programming.
Outcomes:
Student will learn basic theory of artiﬁcial intelligence and be able to build
small applications based on it
COMP 379   Machine Learning   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (COMP 231 or COMP 271) and (MATH 131 or MATH 161)
and (STAT 103 or STAT 203 or ISSCM 241 or STAT 335 or PSYC 304 or
instructor permission)   
Machine learning is the process of making predictions and decisions
from data without being explicitly programmed. Topics include a variety
of supervised learning methods. Ensemble approaches are used to
combine independent models efﬁciently. Unsupervised and semi-
supervised methods demonstrate the power of learning from data
without an explicit training goal.
Outcomes:
Students in this course will learn how to apply sophisticated algorithms
to large data sets to make inferences for prediction or decision makingCOMP 380   Computer Graphics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 271   
This course introduces modern theory and practices in 3-D computer
graphics, stressing real-time interactive applications using libraries like
OpenGL.
Outcomes:
Student will learn how to program real-time interactive applications using
libraries like OpenGL
COMP 381   Bioinformatics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students will engage in the applications of computer-based tools and
database searching to better understand the ﬁelds of genetics, genomics,
evolutionary biology, and personalized medicine. Students will be
introduced to scripting programming languages for analyzing biological
data sets.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics   
Course equivalencies:  X-BIOL388/COMP381/BIOI388   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to appropriately use computer software and
databases to accurately analyze biological data and interpret the results,
applying their understanding of genetic processes
COMP 382   Compiler Construction   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 264 and 272   
This course covers the basics of writing a compiler to translate from
a simple high-level language to machine code. Topics include lexical
analysis, top-down and LR parsing, syntax-directed translation, and code
generation and optimization. Students will write a small compil er.
Outcomes:
Students will learn how a compiler is built
COMP 383   Computational Biology   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (COMP 231 or COMP 271) and COMP 381 (Equivalencies:
BIOI/BIOL 388)   
This course presents an algorithmic focus to problems in computational
biology. It is built on earlier courses on algorithms and bioinformatics.
Problems and solutions covered in this course include gene hunting,
sequence comparison, multiple alignment, gene prediction, trees and
sequences, databases, and rapid sequence analysis.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics   
Course equivalencies:  COMP383/BIOI383   
Outcomes:
Students will learn, in detail, foundational methods and algorithms in
bioinformatics
COMP 386   Methods in Computational Neuroscience   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  NEUR 101; (MATH 131 or MATH 161); and (COMP 150,
COMP 170, COMP 180, or DSCI 101) This course introduces the methods
necessary to work with computational models of neural processing in the
brain   
These methods include differential equations for neuroscience, Simulink
programming, linear algebra for neural networks, MATLAB coding, and
probability theory for neuroscience. For each method, classes will include
lectures, and computer exercises or illustrations.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Course equivalencies:  X - COMP 386/PSYC 383   
Outcomes:
Appreciation of the mathematical and computational techniques used to
understand the brain, specially differential equations to model neurons,
linear algebra used for neural networks, and probability theory capturing
brain performance

--- Page 74 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 105
COMP 387   Deep Learning   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 379 or STAT 338 or STAT 308 This course covers
key concepts of neural network algorithms as well as their applications in
computer vision and natural language processing   
The topics will include popular building blocks of neural networks
including fully-connected, convolutional, recurrent, attention, and
transformer layers.
Outcomes:
Learn how to build and analyze popular modern neural network
architectures; Learn how to design, build, and evaluate their models in the
context of practical applications related to ﬁelds such as computer vision
and natural language processing
COMP 388   Topics in Computer Science   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
This course is used to introduce emerging topics in computer science
that do not yet have a regular course number. Content of the course
varies.
Outcomes:
Understanding of an emerging area of Computer Science
COMP 389   Computational Modeling of the Brain   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 383/COMP 386 or instructor permission This course
uses a mix of lectures and computer labs to introduce computational
models of the neural processing in the brain   
These models capture single neurons and synapses, biological neural
networks, and high-level computational theory. Each class will cover the
models with lectures and computer labs, the latter using MATLAB and
Simulink.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Course equivalencies:  X - COMP 389/PSYC 384   
Outcomes:
Appreciation that brain function cannot be understood without proper
mathematical and computational frameworks, and ability to apply these
frameworks adeptly in the various domains of neuroscience from neurons
to cognition
COMP 390   Broadening Participation in STEM (Computing, Math &
Science)   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Students will learn about underrepresentation of various population
groups in STEM ﬁelds (science, technology, engineering, mathematics),
as well as some of the reasons and negative effects of this situation.
They will learn about techniques and educational materials for
ameliorating this situation and will engage in relevant service learning
activities.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students gain ﬁrst-hand experience with broadening STEM participation
and seeing how they can make a difference in the lives of other students
and contribute to national needs
COMP 391   Internship in Computer Science   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
Students work outside the classroom applying and extending their
computer science skills, typically for at least 150 hours for 3  credits. A
memorandum of understanding is required between a student, his or
her employer, and the Undergraduate Program Director, followed by ﬁnal
reports from the student and the employer.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Application of classroom skills to real-world situationsCOMP 392   Metagenomics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 282   
Exploration of next-generation sequencing technologies for assessing
microbial diversity in ecological niches.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  X-COMP 384/BIOL 392/COMP 392   
Outcomes:
Students will gain hands-on experience with metagenomic
methodologies while working in an interdisciplinary, collaborative setting
COMP 395   Professional Development & Career Growth in CompSci/IT   (1
Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing and any COMP course   
This course is designed speciﬁcally for students pursuing a deg ree in
computing-related ﬁelds, for example, Computer Science, Information
Technology, Software Engineering, and Cybersecurity. They will learn
about ways to develop themselves professionally, communicate their
strengths, expand their contacts, and advance their careers. Students
should acquire skills to professionally brand themselves, successfully
network in technical circles, perform an effective job/internship search,
and conduct themselves well in interviews.
COMP 397   Research Methods in Computer Science   (1 Credit Hour)   
Supplements CS Seminar by targeting students directly engaging in
research and facilitating contributions in ongoing projects. Progress in
outside projects tracked through milestones such as abstracts, small
fellowship-style proposals, informal updates, and outcome-oriented
goal setting. Emphasizes creating lasting impacts through establishing
project continuity and presenting posters, papers, and slide shows.
Outcomes:
Regular progress on research projects and ﬁnal presentations of results
for demonstration to department faculty and students, and potential use
at professional conferences
COMP 398   Independent Study   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
The student and a sponsoring faculty member will determine an
advanced topic for the student to work on.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Knowledge of an advanced topic
COMP 399   Computer Science Seminar   (1 Credit Hour)   
The department seminar is designed to bring together students
interested in understanding and engaging in extracurricular applications
of computer science, with a focus on ongoing research. Speakers will
include department faculty, research students, and invited outside
speakers. Students will be asked to read relevant literature and
participate in discussions.
Course equivalencies:  COMP 399H / COMP 399   
Outcomes:
Students will be exposed to a wide range of topics in computer science,
participate in discussions, and provide feedback to assess their general
understanding of the presented material

--- Page 75 ---
106  College of Arts and Sciences
Computer Science and Education (CSED)
CSED 301   Introduction to Programming/Computer Science   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course provides an introduction to programming with an overview of
other topics in computer science.
Outcomes:
Basic programming skills in a computer language such as VB.NET
or Logo that may be suitable for teaching to young programmers;
understanding of other fundamentals of how computer hardware and
software tools work
CSED 317   Social Issues in Computing   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course covers social, legal, and ethical issues commonly arising in
key areas related to computing technologies.
Outcomes:
Understanding of laws and issues in areas such as privacy, encryption,
freedom of speech, copyrights and patents, computer crime, and
computer/software reliability and safety; understanding of philosophical
perspectives such as utilitarianism versus deontological ethics and
basics of the U.S. legal system
CSED 330   Technical Administration PC Clusters   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course covers technical knowledge and practical skills needed to
administer a PC cluster in a school or similar environment, focusing
on security issues such as ﬁrewalls, viruses, and external and internal
attacks, and also covers server and LAN conﬁguration and storage
management.
Outcomes:
Students will be familiar with the procedures and design tradeoffs
involved in conﬁguring a computer lab
CSED 331   Management of PC Cluster   (3 Credit Hours)   
Further topics in management of school-based PC clusters are covered:
purchasing, stafﬁng, troubleshooting, conﬁguration, copyright and
software licensing, facilities and resource management, use of IT
outsourcing, acceptable-use policies, account management, content
ﬁltering, and reliability.
Outcomes:
Students will be familiar with issues and conflicts, both technical and
social, that arise in school lab management, and with ways of addressing
them
CSED 343   Introduction to Computer Networks   (3 Credit Hours)   
How a computer network is put together, from lowest to highest levels.
TCP/IP protocols and the construction of the internet; LAN protocols
such as Ethernet and ATM; internetworking protocols such as IP; transit
protocols such as TCP and UDP; congestion and security issues.
Criminal Justice & Criminology (CJC)
CJC 101   Criminal Justice in a Global Context   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces students to the study of the causes and control
of crime from a global perspective. The course considers: the way crime
and criminal justice reflects social, political, and cultural forces; the
complex intersection between social inequalities and state responses to
crime; and the diffusion of criminal justice reforms based on concepts of
equality and
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science, Psychology of Crime and
Justice   
Course equivalencies:  ACCRJ 201 / CJC 101   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the st ructure
and challenges of state responses to crime from global, historical, and
interdisciplinary perspectivesCJC 201   Theories of Criminal Behavior   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will provide a detailed examination of past and present
theories of criminal behavior, placing them in a socio-historical context
and exploring their policy and practical implications.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Psychology of Crime and Justice   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of how the
speciﬁc theories of criminal behavior can be compared and evaluated,
how the theories evolved over time, and how they can be applied to
criminal justice policy and practice
CJC 202   Criminal Courts   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides students with an overview of state and federal
criminal courts and case processing, including the study of prosecutors,
defense attorneys, judges, jury decision-making, plea bargaining, and
sentencing.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Psychology of Crime and Justice, Sociolegal
Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand the functions of the state and federal
criminal courts, the actors working in those courts and their respective
roles, and the procedures for processing of criminal cases
CJC 203   Policing   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the nature and purpose of policing in American
society. Topical areas include the urban police function, contemporary
U.S. police systems, principles of police organization and administration,
basic operational methodology, and efforts to professionalize police
agencies.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of changi ng role
of police in modern society and articulate the role and challenges faced
by police as it relates to the overall operation and goals of the criminal
justice system
CJC 204   Corrections   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the history, functions, and processes of
corrections. The primary focus is institutional corrections and its
evolution based on philosophies of retribution, deterrence, incapacitation,
and rehabilitation. The role and influence of community correctional
practices and policy on institutional corrections are also covered.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Psychology of Crime and Justice   
Course equivalencies:  ACCRJ 204 / CJC 204   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to identify and describe the role of institutional
corrections in society and the criminal justice system and articulate the
connection between theories regarding criminality and the purposes
of incarceration that have historically guided and continue to guide
American correctional practice historically and currently
CJC 205   Research Methods   (3 Credit Hours)   
An introduction to the logic and basic concepts of social research, with
an emphasis on both basic and applied research within criminal justice
and criminology. The course provides a basic conceptual framework for
designing, conducting, interpreting, and evaluating social research.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services, Urban Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate the capacity to effectively design,
review and interpret research to answer questions within the ﬁeld of
criminal justice and other social science disciplines

--- Page 76 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 107
CJC 206   Statistics   (3 Credit Hours)   
An introduction to the basic concepts and techniques of statistical
analysis, with an emphasis on the study of delinquency, crime, and
program evaluation within the criminal justice system.
Knowledge Area:  Quantitative Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services   
Course equivalencies:  X-CRMJ206/SOWK391   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to effectively perform and interpret statistical
analyses and identify the appropriate use of these statistics in the
analysis of crime and criminal justice system performance
CJC 302   Juvenile Justice System   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will examine the history, theories, policies, and practices of
the juvenile justice system. It will also include a discussion of diversion
programs, child maltreatment, and gang behavior.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services, Psychology of Crime and
Justice   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the st ructure
and challenges facing the juvenile justice system as it responds to
delinquency and abuse/neglect from an historical, interdisciplinary, and
inter-agency relationship perspective, and how this differs from the adult
(criminal) justice system
CJC 310   Contemporary Police Issues   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides an in-depth examination of speciﬁc contemporary
issues in policing related to recruitment and training, education and
retention, innovations in policing strategies, police policies and practices,
professionalism and ethics.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to identify and discuss the impact that c urrent
issues in policing have on police operations, effectiveness, and police-
community relations
CJC 312   Popular Culture and the Criminal Justice System   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course will examine the interrelationship among crime, the media,
the criminal justice system, and other forms of popular culture. Topics
include media representations of crime and criminal justice, social media,
and the social construction of myths about crime and the criminal justice
system.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to (1) know the meaning of the social construction
of deviance; (2) know and be critical of the manner in which crime and
criminal justice are portrayed in the media, and their effect on public
opinions and images of the latter; and (3) analyze and evaluate the
effects of popular culture
CJC 322   Criminal Law   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to the principles underlying the deﬁnition,
constitutionality, and application of criminal laws. It includes the analysis
of court decisions regarding various state and federal crimes, and the
rules of individual responsibility and accountability for those crimes.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Psychology of Crime and Justice, Sociolegal
Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the
constitutional limitations on the construction of statutory crimes, the
elements of different crimes, and the principles governing individual
responsibility and accountability for those crimesCJC 323   Criminal Procedure   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides an in-depth, sophisticated coverage of criminal
procedures surrounding investigations, stops, searches and seizure,
arrests, interrogations, and procedural remedies.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Sociolegal Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to identify and articulate the origin, interpretation
and application of legal procedures as they relate to matters involving the
police, and how these relate to the overall operation and effectiveness of
the criminal justice system
CJC 336   Political Violence and Crime   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course offers a thematic approach to the study of different forms
of political violence and crime, their causes and consequences, how
different types of violence and crime manifest in the present day, and how
violence is represented in popular culture.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Peace, Justice, and Conflict
Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will learn to evaluate the ways in which violence and crime are
used for political ends and assess the countermeasures taken by various
international and government agencies to combat political violence
CJC 337   Terrorism   (3 Credit Hours)   
An analysis of different types of terrorist organizations across the globe
and of the efforts by governments to combat terrorism.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Peace, Justice, and Conflict
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC337/INTS337/CJC337   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to explain what motivates the turn to terror as a
method of struggle and to assess the morality and effectiveness of the
counterterrorism tactics adopted by various governments
CJC 338   Community-Based Corrections   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the history, purpose, and functioning of probation
and parole as well as other aspects of community-based supervision,
including: pre-trial supervision, electronic monitoring, house arrest/home
detention, day reporting centers, and other programs that provide both
supervision and treatment of offenders in the community.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to articulate the organizational structure of
community corrections programs, the roles community corrections play
in the criminal justice system, and the effectiveness and challenges
facing community corrections agencies
CJC 345   Social Justice and Crime   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100, PLSC 102, PSYC 100, SOCL 101, WSGS 101, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course examines the social injustices in the criminal justice
system's naming and sanctioning of harmful behaviors as crimes.
Discussions will unpack the values, ethics, and ideologies underlying
the current retributive system of sanctioning compared to social justice
responses to crime.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies, Psychology
of Crime and Justice, Race and Ethnicity, Sociolegal Studies   
Outcomes:
Articulate the meaning of social justice; Discuss restorative and
retributive justice

--- Page 77 ---
108  College of Arts and Sciences
CJC 346   Mental Illness and Crime   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores the relationship of mental illness to crime and
violence. Topics include the nature, prevalence, and consequences of
mental disorder, substance use, and violence among criminal offenders,
violence risk assessment, and the institutional and other treatments for
the mentally ill offender.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Psychology of Crime and Justice   
Outcomes:
Students will know (1) the history and development of research on
mental illness and crime, (2) the various mental disorders endemic in the
criminal justice system and their relationship to crime and violence, (3)
assessment measures of the risk for violence, and (4) management and
treatment of mentally ill offender
CJC 351   Organized Crime   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course offers an introduction to the study of organized crime in U.S.
society. Emphasis is given to the history and development of traditional
organized crime in Chicago. Emerging organized crime groups are also
studied. In addition, this course offers an introduction to the concept of
transnational organized crime.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Italian American Studies, Italian Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will articulate the extent and nature of organized crime, how it
relates to other forms of criminal behavior, and the effectiveness of the
justice system's response to it
CJC 352   Gangs   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the historical development of urban street gangs
with a view toward understanding their structure, characteristics,
purposes, and activities. Particular emphasis is given to the history and
development of street gangs in Chicago.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Urban Studies   
Course equivalencies:  CRMJ352/URB352   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the causes and hi story
of street gangs, the methods used to control them, and their impact on
society and the criminal justice system
CJC 353   White Collar Crime   (3 Credit Hours)   
This is a study of non-traditional crime engaged in by governmental
and corporate entities, and persons in the "white collar" professions.
It includes state political crimes, corporate violence and abuse of
power, as well as occupational, ﬁnancial, and environmental crimes, and
enforcement of laws against such crimes.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to describe the nature and extent of white collar
crime, how it differs from traditional crime, and the manner in which laws
against such crimes are enforced
CJC 354   Cybercrime   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the theory, practice, and prevention of cybercrime.
It considers how advances in technology have led to the creation of
cybercrime and new avenues for deviance. The course centers on various
forms of cybercrimes and how theories of crime can be applied to explain
and prevent cybercrime.
Outcomes:
Deﬁne the nature and scope of cybercrime, Analyze national and global
digital law enforcement efforts, Critically consider laws and policies
governing cybercrime detection and prosecutionCJC 360   Substance Use and Crime   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will explore whether substance use is related to crime,
the effect of drug trafﬁcking on communities, the policies aimed at
controlling drug use and their effectiveness, as well as the implications of
current drug policies and practices on communities and on the criminal
justice system itself.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Psychology of Crime and Justice   
Outcomes:
Students will describe the relationship between substance use and
crime, the effects of substance use and abuse on communities, and the
implications of currents drug policies and practices
CJC 365   Guns and Crime   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides a comprehensive overview of issues associated
with ﬁrearms, including their historical and contemporary use in the
commission and prevention of crime, patterns of ownership and
acquisition, and the form and effectiveness of attempts to control access
to ﬁrearms and gun-related violence in the U.S.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to apply critical thought, scientiﬁc research, and a
full understanding of the laws regulating access to ﬁrearms to objectively
assess the nature of, and governmental response to, gun violence
CJC 366   Crime Prevention   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the theory and practice of crime prevention. The
course will review theories of crime and justice with speciﬁc implications
for crime prevention efforts. Students will trace the evolution of crime
prevention efforts. Most importantly, the course will review crime
prevention strategies, ranging from those designed to protect the
individual to those designed to protect society at large.
Outcomes:
Deﬁne and explain crime prevention, as an idea and as a practice; Deﬁne
and explain the three broad categories of crime prevention; Know and
explain how theories of crime and justice provide the foundation for
particular methods of crime prevention; Describe and understand the
importance of evaluation in judging the effectiveness of crime prevention
techniques; Differentiate between crime prevention techniques pitched at
different levels (individual, household, business, neighborhood)
CJC 370   Women in The Criminal Justice System   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100, PLSC 102, PSYC 100, SOCL 101, WSGS 101, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course examines four areas relative to women in the criminal justice
system: the historical view of female criminality; women as defendants
in criminal cases and women in prison; women as victims of domestic
violence and sexual assault; and women as professionals in the criminal
justice system.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-CRMJ370/WOST395/WSGS395   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to describe the extent, nature and theories of female
criminality and victimization and how this is consistent with a nd different
from male criminality and victimization

--- Page 78 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 109
CJC 371   Victimology   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the scientiﬁc study of victimization, the
relationships between victims and offenders, the interactions between
victims and the criminal justice system, and the connections between
victims and other social groups and institutions.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies, Psychology
of Crime and Justice   
Course equivalencies:  X-CRMJ371/PAX 369   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to describe the legal, social and psychological
issues related to crime victimization, and current knowledge about the
victim-offender and victim- criminal justice system relationships
CJC 372   Race, Ethnicity, and Criminal Justice   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100, PLSC 102, PSYC 100, SOCL 101, WSGS 101, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course examines current research and theoretical perspectives
related to race and ethnicity in crime and in criminal justice processing.
It will cover such issues as racial proﬁling, the effects of drug laws on
people of color, minority disenfranchisement from the criminal justice
system, and crime and immigration.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Human
Services, Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies, Psychology of Crime and
Justice, Race and Ethnicity, Sociolegal Studies, Urban Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-CJC/BWS/AFR/PLSC372/PAX373   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of contemporary issues
relating to - and current research and theory about - race and ethnicity
and their relationship to crime and criminal case processing
CJC 373   Intimate Partner Violence   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will address the nature and scope of intimate partner
violence, the factors that contribute to it as well as the theo ries that have
been developed to explain it. Attention will be paid to society's responses
to intimate partner violence.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services, Peace, Justice, and Conflict
Studies, Psychology of Crime and Justice, Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  CJC373/PAX374/WSGS392   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to describe the theory, extent, nature, and impact of
intimate partner violence, and how the community and criminal justice
system respond to this problem
CJC 374   Miscarriages of Justice   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course takes an interdisciplinary approach to the study of criminal
justice system error, drawing from criminology, psychology, and law,
to examine wrongful conviction and acquittal, ofﬁcial misconduct,
and discrimination. The course examines the rate of error, institutional
responses to error, and how policies exacerbate, or minimize, miscarriage
of justice.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Psychology of Crime and Justice   
Outcomes:
Critically evaluate criminal justice practices for their ability to administer
justice; identify hallmarks of miscarriages of justice; analyze policy for its
potential to prevent, or contribute to, miscarriages of justiceCJC 375   Punishment and Society   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores the dominant sociological approaches to
understanding punishment in modern society. The course also focuses
on punishment as practiced in the United States in light of these
theoretical approaches, examining the collateral consequences of
punishment and the importance of racial, gender, and sexual identities in
relation to punishment.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Race and Ethnicity   
Outcomes:
Understand the philosophical justiﬁcations for punishment; understand
social theories of punishment; critically assess the role punishment plays
in modern society; understand the consequences of punishment for
individuals, communities, and society
CJC 376   Childhood Exposure to Violence   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the deﬁnitions, scope, and impact of violence and
abuse in childhood. In particular, this course introduces students to the
theoretical and empirical literatures relating to family violence, including
child physical abuse, child sexual abuse, and child neglect, as well as
child victimization in neighborhoods and schools.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services, Psychology of Crime and
Justice   
Outcomes:
To understand, critically analyze, and apply a variety of theories,
conceptual frameworks, and empirical research to explain child
victimization and the impact of exposure to violence on children
CJC 377   Psychology and Law   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101   
Introduction to the areas of overlap between psychology and the
law. Topics include roles of psychologists in legal settings, accuracy
of eyewitness testimony, jury processes, accuracy of polygraph
examinations, and issues surrounding the insanity defense.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies, Sociolegal
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X- CJC 377 / PSYC 372   
Outcomes:
Students will learn to analyze biases in the U.S. jury system, elucidate the
weaknesses of eyewitness testimony, outline the issues in the insanity
defense, understand the issues in Rape Trauma Syndrome and Battered
Spouse Syndrome, understand the methods and effects of scientiﬁc jury
selection, understand the complex issues surrounding confessions, and
view the US justice system in a social justice context
CJC 378   International Criminal Justice   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to the nature and scope of international
and transnational crime, and the emerging legal framework for its
prevention and control. It includes the history of the internationalization
of crime control and measurement, and international trends in law
enforcement, victim assistance, courts, sentencing, and corrections.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will examine globalization of crime; learn about international
crime statistics; understand the prevalence of common crimes
internationally; identify emerging crime threats; and understand
international trends in criminal justice

--- Page 79 ---
110  College of Arts and Sciences
CJC 379   Leaving Crime Behind   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CJC 201   
This course provides students with an examination of desistance
from crime and the potential for rehabilitation in the criminal justice
system. The course discusses theories of desistance, empirical research
on desistance, and the extent to which the criminal justice system
contributes to individuals' ability to desist from crime.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to: 1) analyze desistance theories; 2) describe crime
patterns across the life course; 3) identify individual and community-
level factors associated with desistance; and 4) critique rehabilitation
approaches grounded in desistance theories
CJC 380   Introduction to Forensic Science   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides an overview of the basic principles and uses
of forensic science within the ﬁeld of criminal justice. The course is
designed for criminal justice majors emphasizing the application of the
forensic sciences in the criminal justice system.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to identify the uses and limitations of the existing
forensic science techniques used within the ﬁeld of criminal justice
CJC 390   Capstone Experience Internship   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CRMJ Majors and Minors, Psychology of Crime and Justice
Minors, Forensic Science Majors   
The purpose of this course is to enhance the student's development and
learning through observational and participatory experience in criminal
justice agencies.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to contribute in a meaningful way to the operation
of a speciﬁc criminal justice agency and be able to identify and describe
the link between their ﬁeld experience and prior courses
CJC 391   Capstone Experience Research   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Instructor approval required; major in criminal justice;
junior or senior standing; Students must complete CJC 205: Rese arch
Methods (or equivalent) and four additional CJC courses   
The course will allow students to be actively engaged in a faculty
member's research project, providing the student with an opportunity to
apply the research skills that they already have and to acquire additional
skills and knowledge about research design, statistical analysis, and
writing research presentations, briefs, or papers.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
increasing knowledge about the research process from design, analysis,
presentation, writing and policy implications
CJC 395   Special Topics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Special topics courses provide students with an opportunity to examine
various criminal justice topics not normally offered as part of the
Department's regular curriculum.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to gain an understanding of new issues co nfronting
the criminal justice system, or an advanced understanding of traditional
subjects covered in basic courses
CJC 396   Independent Study   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
This course provides students with the opportunity to examine a speciﬁc
topic in the ﬁeld of criminal justice that is currently not offered or
available.
Outcomes:
Students will gain an in-depth understanding of a speciﬁc criminal justice
topic through directed readings and independent studyCJC 399   Senior Capstone   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  6 courses in Criminal Justice and Criminology and senior-
standing only   
This course is for CJC majors slated to graduate within two semesters.
This course is a culmination of the student's study of crime and criminal
justice issues. It consists of projects aimed at integrating theory,
knowledge, and research in the context of a variety of contemporary
criminal justice problems, issues, and policies.
Outcomes:
Students will apply all that they have learned throughout their criminal
justice courses and apply this knowledge to demonstrate a sophisticated
understanding of criminal justice professions, practices, and policy
Dance (DANC)
DANC 111   Ballet I: Introduction to Ballet Theory and Technique   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Ballet I is designed to introduce the concepts and vocabulary of ballet
with a focus on developing student's body awareness and control.
Students will learn about the art form of ballet in relationship to theatre,
music and other forms of dance.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Course equivalencies:  THTR111/DANC111   
Outcomes:
Students will improve their posture, flexibility and coordination; They
will develop a reference for enjoying ballet performances and create a
foundation for further dance training
DANC 121   Modern Dance I: Theories and Techniques   (3 Credit Hours)   
Modern Dance I is designed to increase student's body awareness,
strength, flexibility and musicality. The course studies the technique and
theory of Fall and Recovery developed by Doris Humphrey.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Course equivalencies:  THTR121/DANC121   
Outcomes:
Students will develop a basic dance technique and be able to describe
and demonstrate the differences between modern dance and ballet; They
will understand the history of the development of modern dance as a
uniquely American art form
DANC 131   Jazz Dance I: Theories and Techniques   (3 Credit Hours)   
Jazz I is designed to increase the student's body awareness, enjoyment
of movement and appreciation of Jazz dance in theatrical productions.
May be repeated once for credit.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Course equivalencies:  THTR131/DANC131   
Outcomes:
Students will improve their strength, coordination, flexibility and correct
posture; They will develop basic skills and vocabulary for performing Jazz
movements and a framework to view dance in theatrical productions

--- Page 80 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 111
DANC 212   Ballet Dance II: Theory and Technique   (2 Credit Hours)   
Prerequisite Skills: Students should be familiar with the ﬁve feet and
arm positions and be able to work in 5th position of the feet. Dancers
should demonstrate correct alignment of the pelvis and spine in plie
and releve and while working at the barre. Dancer must be able to
execute correct articulation of the feet and leg in tendu. They should be
familiar with basic petite allegro and action of the feet, hips and legs
while jumping. This is a continuing ballet class designed to build on
established vocabulary and movement fundamentals with emphasis on
ballet as a theatrical art form.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  THTR212/DANC212   
Outcomes:
This class further develops strength, posture, flexibility and coordination;
Progressions include more work en relev at the barre, development
of leg extensions, single leg jumping and more complex movement
combinations; Students will develop awareness of a dancer's role in a
ballet production
DANC 213   Ballet III: Advanced Continuing Ballet   (2 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisite skills: Student must demonstrate correct alignment and
articulation at the barre and in the center when standing in ﬁrst or ﬁfth
position. Student should have introductory proﬁciency in pirouettes
en dehors and en dedans as well as petit allegro. This course serves
students who have achieved proﬁciency in the basic elements of
Continuing Ballet, but need to develop skills to meet the Intermediate
level. Course focuses on reinforcing foundational technique in alignment
and articulation and provides opportunities to develop strength,
coordination and vocabulary required to advance to 311 Intermediate
Ballet.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will increase their awareness of overall dance alignment and
articulation; They will develop strength, coordination and vocabulary
preparing them for Intermediate Ballet; Students will enhance their ability
to travel across the floor as well as conduct pirouettes; Adagio work in
the center and grand allegro is introduced
DANC 222   Modern Dance II: Theory and Technique   (2 Credit Hours)   
Prerequisite Skills: Dancers should be able to maintain correct alignment
of the legs, back and pelvis standing and shifting their weight. Must be
familiar with 1st and 2nd position of the legs and demonstrate basic
articulation of the legs in tendu and jumping. This course is designed
to further increase student's body awareness, strength, flexibility and
musicality. We will study the technique and theory of Fall and Recovery
developed by Doris Humphrey as well as learn short excerpts of repertory
to be analyzed. May be repeated once for credit.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  THTR222/DANC222   
Outcomes:
Students will further develop their modern dance technique and be
able to execute more physically challenging falls and longer and more
complex movement combinations
DANC 224   Majors Modern II   (1 Credit Hour)   
This course is designed for Dance majors to increase their body
awareness, strength, flexibility and musicality through the study the
technique and theory of Fall and Recovery developed by Doris Humphrey.
Restricted to Dance Majors.
Outcomes:
Students will develop their modern dance technique including falls and
longer and more complex movement combinations; They will further their
understanding of spatial patterns and musicalityDANC 232   Jazz Dance II: Theories and Techniques   (2 Credit Hours)   
Prerequisite Skills: Dancers should demonstrate correct placement of
the legs, back and pelvis standing and in plié. They should be able to
demonstrate basic jazz turns, jazz runs and pas de bourée. Dancers
need to use correct position and opposition of the arms in combinations.
Jazz II is designed to further develop student's technical ability and
awareness of Jazz dance in theatrical productions. Students will learn
about professional Jazz dance in Chicago and improve their strength,
coordination, flexibility and correct posture in increasingly complex
combinations applying the vocabulary and principles of jazz dance. May
be repeated once for credit.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  THTR232/DANC232   
Outcomes:
Students will improve their dance technique, performance skills and
appreciation of Chicago's rich tradition of Jazz dance performance
DANC 240   Dance Practicum   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  THTR 253   
Students apply stagecraft for dance in a variety of domains: costuming,
lighting, electrics and sound. They will work as running crew for a
mainstage dance production.
Outcomes:
Students will acquire a variety of skills necessary for producing dance;
including collaboration and organization skills and will gain appreciation
for the complexity dance production
DANC 250   Historical Contexts in Contemporary Dance Practice   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Must be a Dance major or Dance minor   
This course surveys historical flashpoints in the evolution of American
contemporary dance. It provides a critical framework for interrogating
cultural and sociopolitical influences on concert dance practice and
performance. Students will analyze intersecting aesthetics originating
from the French courts of Catherine de Medici and Louis XIV, the
Atlantic slave trade and Asian theatrical dance forms such as kabuki
and bharatanatyam in the development of ballet, modern, tap, jazz and
musical theater dance.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to identify historical ﬁgures and events that
have signiﬁcantly influenced American theatrical dance; This course
gives students the ability describe and interpret dance history by
contextualizing sociopolitical and cultural influences on the evolution
of dance aesthetics while applying critical race, queer and feminist
theoretical frameworks to their understanding of contemporary dance in
America
DANC 260   Topics in Dance   (2 Credit Hours)   
This course is a studio course that explores the theories and techniques
of various dance forms. A speciﬁc dance genre will be selected each time
the course is offered. The course may be repeated two times for credit.
Outcomes:
The student will gain a historical perspective on the dance form
presented, as well as demonstrate speciﬁc skills required of the dance
form
DANC 261   Topics in Applied Dance   (1-2 Credit Hours)   
This is an all-inclusive heading for courses rarely offered that serve under
the Applied Technique designation for the Dance Minor.
Outcomes:
Each offering will provide discipline-speciﬁc vocabulary and applied skill
acquisition

--- Page 81 ---
112  College of Arts and Sciences
DANC 270   Dance Kinesiology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Must be an enrolled Dance Major or Dance Minor   
The purpose of this class is to present dancers with basic knowledge
of the anatomy, physiology, and biomechanics of human movement in
dance and non-dance applications.
Outcomes:
Students participate in lecture, physical practice, group and individual
projects to understand the mechanisms for dance movement and how
movement patterns contribute to the presence or absence of dance
injuries
DANC 275   Global Influences on Contemporary Dance Practice   (2 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Must be Dance Major or Dance Minor or have instructor
approval   
This seminar-styled course provides essential experience and
knowledge through applied study of diverse lenses and movement styles
contributing to contemporary dance practice.
Outcomes:
Identify, Demonstrate and Discuss non-western influences on
contemporary dance choreography and practice
DANC 280   Dance & Disability: Interdisciplinary Theory & Applied
Movement Practices   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores interdisciplinary theory and applied innovation at
the intersection of movement, science, and community engagement.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate a working knowledge of best interdisciplinary
practices in disability dance practices, and will develop strategies that
address the physical, social, and cultural implications of physically
integrated dance in multiple settings
DANC 312   Pointe I: Theory and Techniques   (1 Credit Hour)   
Co-requisites:  DANC 213 or 341   
This course is practice-oriented and builds on dancers' knowledge of
ballet vocabulary, alignment, and strength. Pointework is geared towards
the development of a higher level of articulation in classical footwork.
Outcomes:
The student will gain a deeper understanding of ballet technique en
pointe, as well as demonstrate speciﬁc skills required of the dance form
DANC 314   Pointe II: Continuing Pointework   (1 Credit Hour)   
This is a studio class that explores ballet technique en pointe. This
course is to be taken concurrently with DANC 313 Ballet V Advanced
Ballet or 343 Advanced Majors Ballet. Students must be enrolled in
Advanced Ballet to be eligible for enrollment in Pointe II. This course
explores continuing ballet technique en pointe. It requires students
to apply and synthesize all aspects of pointework studies including
technique, spatial awareness, dynamics and group forms by preparing
and presenting a public performance. It must be taken concurrently with
DANC 313 Ballet V or 343 Advanced Majors Ballet. May be taken 8 times
for credit.
Outcomes:
Students gain a deeper understanding of pointe technique, as well
as demonstrate speciﬁc advanced skills required of the dance form;
Students apply and synthesize material in a public performanceDANC 323   Rehearsal and Performance   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  Permission of the department   
Dancing, choreographing, or stage managing, in a campus production.
Completion of a journal or paper is required. May be repeated up to 12
times.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will gain performance experience, assess personal artistic
growth, and reflect on application of performance theory and technique
into production practice
DANC 324   Modern III: Theory and Techniques   (1 Credit Hour)   
This studio course develops core strength, coordination and musical,
spatial and performance skills through the study the technique and
theory developed by Martha Graham as well as contemporary dance
practices.
Outcomes:
Dancers will improve coordination, phrasing, physical power, shift of
weight, anatomical awareness, performance, projection, flexibility and
placement
DANC 331   Jazz Dance III: Intermediate Jazz Dance Theories and
Techniques   (2 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Permission of the Instructor   
This course develops students' ability to execute Jazz dance technique at
an intermediate level. Students improve their dance technique, dynamic,
spatial and performance skills. Students apply and synthesize all aspects
of jazz dance technique in public performance. This course may be taken
six times for credit.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students improve core strength, coordination, flexibility and correct
posture at the intermediate level, in increasingly complex combinations
applying and synthesizing all concepts and technique in public
performance
DANC 341   Ballet IV: Anatomical Foundations and Cultural Context   (1
Credit Hour)   
This applied studio technique course emphasizes contemporary scientiﬁc
anatomical research and cultural context in the study of ballet. Course
skills and concepts are applied and synthesized through presentation of a
public performance.
Outcomes:
Students will improve strength, alignment, and ensemble skills, develop
knowledge and apply anatomical principles, connect the study of ballet to
cultural and artistic context
DANC 343   Ballet V: Advancing Ballet: Contemporary Methodologies in
Applied Ballet   (1 Credit Hour)   
This applied studio technique course emphasizes contemporary best
practices in the study of Ballet in performance and theory in order to
advance artistic and technical proﬁciency. Course skills and concepts are
applied and synthesized through presentation of a public performance.
Outcomes:
Students will improve strength, alignment, and ensemble skills, develop
knowledge of universal dance principles and advance their proﬁciency in
contemporary ballet practice; Course skills and concepts are applied and
synthesized through presentation of a public performance

--- Page 82 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 113
DANC 360   Dance Pedagogy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Dance major or dance minor   
The study child development, sequential dance pedagogy, biomechanics,
nutrition and classroom management techniques as it relates to the
teaching of dance. Coursework includes lecture, readings, model
teaching, and research. Students observe master teachers instructing
children of all ages and create sequential lesson plans consisting of all
elements of dance pedagogy.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate a working knowledge of child development
in relationship to age-appropriate dance skills as well as behavioral
expectations; They will develop strategies that address the sequences
of skill acquisition as well as concrete strategies for classroom
management
DANC 370   Dance Composition   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Must be a Dance Major or Dance Minor to enroll; Placement
in Level III or higher dance technique courses; Permission of the
department required   
This course takes students from an introduction to dance composition
theory and techniques through the process of creating a group work for
the stage. Course work includes lecture, discussion, selected readings,
viewing of masterworks of dance composition, creation of several dance
studies on various themes and culminates in the creation of a work for
performance in the Student Choreographic Showcase.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Through the development of short dance students learn the principles of
dance composition and then apply them to their own creation performed
for a public audience
DANC 380   Senior Showcase Capstone   (1 Credit Hour)   
Restricted to Senior Dance Majors. This course serves as the capstone
of the Dance major and creates a platform for dancers to apply technical
skills, theory and practice from many required courses for the Bachelor
of Arts including DANC 341/DANC 343 Majors Ballet, DANC 321 Majors
Modern, DANC 323 Rehearsal and Performance and DANC 370 Dance
Composition.
Outcomes:
Dance majors will apply and synthesize all applied technique courses
taken for their dance majors as well as integrate their knowledge of the
choreographic and performance process
DANC 394   Internship in Dance   (1-12 Credit Hours)   
Dance students complete a semester long internship providing an
opportunity to use their technical, research or organizations skills in
a professional setting. Students must complete and reflect upon 50
hours of internship experience per credit hour that is pre-approved by
the Department of Fine and Performing Arts. Department permission is
required.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students gain professional experience working at a dance organization
while reflecting on their work experience and applying theories and
techniques acquired from their ﬁrst dance courses
DANC 395   Independent Study   (1-12 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Written permission of chairperson   
Independent study projects may be of various kinds and in any
recognized area of the dance. Such projects should be done under the
close supervision of a dance faculty member.
Outcomes:
To be determined by the student in consultation with the chairperson and
dance faculty supervisorDANC 397   Fieldwork in Chicago - Dance   (1-12 Credit Hours)   
Variable credit (1-6 hours) given for performances or projects undertaken
with professional dance organizations outside the university. Students
keep a journal and write evaluative papers. Permission of the Department
of Fine and Performing Arts Required. Repeatable for up to 6 credit hours,
however no more than 6 credit hours of Internship or Fieldwork can be
applied to the major.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Speciﬁc outcomes and credit hours assigned to be determined by
the student in consultation with the Director of Dance and the project
supervisor
DANC 398   Research in Dance   (1-12 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  DANC 323   
Faculty serve as mentors for dance students pursuing research
opportunities. Platforms cross various domains in cognitive,
psychomotor, and artistic development. Students and faculty work
together to generate qualitative and quantitative data documented
in multiple modalities including: dancemaking, regression analyses,
interviews, correlational and case studies. This course satisﬁes the
Engaged Learning-Undergraduate Research requirement.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will learn discipline-speciﬁc language skills, research ethics and
methodologies; Students will gain valuable skills disseminating research
through performances, scholarly articles, conference presentations and
research symposia
Data Science (DSCI)
DSCI 101   Fundamentals of Modern Data Science with R   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course is designed to be an introduction to the basics of data
science with R. Students will learn the very basics of data science and
introductory programming skills for working with data.
Outcomes:
Students will learn basic programming skills for working with different
types of data as well as data visualization, data wrangling, and data
management practices
DSCI 399   Data Science Internship   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  DSCI internship coordinator and DSCI program director
consent required   
This course provides data science students with an opportunity to apply
the knowledge obtained through their previous coursework as well as
obtain course credits by working on data science projects through paid or
unpaid internships. All projects for this course must be accompanied by a
written form to be ﬁlled out by the student and their internship supervisor,
and approved by the data science internship coordinator (DSIC). Students
will receive 1 credit hour for every 50 hours worked at the approved
internship for a maximum of 3 credit hours. Students taking this course
will fulﬁll their data science capstone requirement.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
The ability to manage large data sets in preparation for data science
analysis; The ability to perform a data science analysis from beginning to
end while adhering to the principles of reproducible research; The ability
to program in both the R and Python programming languages

--- Page 83 ---
114  College of Arts and Sciences
Economics (ECON)
ECON 201   Principles of Microeconomics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100, PLSC 102, PSYC 100, SOCL 101, WSGS 101, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course is an introduction to demand and supply, consumer choice,
price analysis in alternative industrial organizations, and the distribution
of income.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  ECON201/201H/ACECO201/CPST243   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to think critically about price formation  in different
market structures, and how prices, household incomes and income
distribution in a diverse society are determined with interpretations
based on the concepts of opportunity costs and decision making under
uncertainty
ECON 201H   Principles of Microeconomics - Honors   (3 Credit Hours)   
Requirement: ANTH 100, PLSC 102, PSYC 100 or SOCL 101 for students
admitted to Loyola University for Fall 2012 or later. No requirement for
students admitted to Loyola prior to Fall 2012 or those with a declared
major or minor in the Department of Anthropology, Department of
Criminal Justice, Department of Economics, Department of Psychology,
Department of Political Science, the Department of Sociology, Human
Services or the School of Nursing. Restricted to SBA honors students or
Honors students. This course is an introduction to demand and supply,
consumer choice, price analysis in alternative industrial organizations,
and the distribution of income.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  ECON201/201H/ACECO201/CPST243   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to think critically about price formation  in different
market structures, and how prices, household incomes and income
distribution in a diverse society are determined with interpretations
based on the concepts of opportunity costs and decision making under
uncertainty
ECON 202   Principles of Macroeconomics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100, PLSC 102, PSYC 100, SOCL 101, WSGS 101, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course is an introduction to national product, its components, money
and the real sectors and business fluctuations.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  ECON202/ECON202H/ACECO202/245   
Outcomes:
The students will be able to think critically about the economic
environment of the nation and to measure growth, unemployment,
inflation, ﬁscal and monetary policies of the government, to ultimately
understand economic stability and the welfare of the individual citizen
ECON 202H   Principles of Macroeconomics - Honors   (3 Credit Hours)   
Restricted to SBA honors students or Honors students. This course is
an introduction to national product, its components, money and the real
sectors and business fluctuations.
Course equivalencies:  ECON202/ECON202H/ACECO202/245   
Outcomes:
The students will be able to think critically about the economic
environment of the nation and to measure growth, unemployment,
inflation, ﬁscal and monetary policies of the government, to ultimately
understand economic stability and the welfare of the individual citizenECON 303   Intermediate Microeconomics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing; minimum grade of C- in ECON 201
or 201H; ECON 202 or 202H; and one of the following: MATH 130,
MATH 131, or MATH 161   
This course is a detailed study of consumer and ﬁrm behavior, market
structures, and the elementary propositions concerning welfare
economics.
Course equivalencies:  ECON303/303H   
Outcomes:
The students will develop analytical skills to understand and predict
consumer and ﬁrm behavior, understand the underlying pinning of
antitrust legislation and dynamic market strategies
ECON 304   Intermediate Macroeconomics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing; minimum grade of C- in ECON 201
or ECON 201H; ECON 202 or ECON 202H; and one of the following:
MATH 130, MATH 131, or MATH 161   
This course develops the framework used by economists in government,
business and academia to analyze the key determinants of economic
growth, the business cycle, unemployment, inflation, the level of interest
and exchange rates, as well as explaining how all these variables are
influenced by monetary and ﬁscal policy.
Outcomes:
The students are able to understand and critically analyze business
cycles, ﬁnancial market fluctuations, and to study inflation and
unemployment policies
ECON 320   Urban Economics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing, minimum grade of "C-" in ECON 201
and 202   
This course analyzes the economic role and functioning of cities and
examines urban issues such as real estate markets, transportation,
economic development, and crime.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Urban Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ECON320/URB320   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the economic forces that shape urban
agglomerations; Students will understand the economic and ethical
trade-offs of various urban economic policies; They will be able to think
critically about the economic forces that make a city grow and contract
over time
ECON 323   International Economics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing, minimum grade of "C-" in ECON 201
and 202   
This course analyzes microeconomic and macroeconomic theories
of global trade; balance of payments, adjustment problems and the
international monetary system.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, International Business   
Course equivalencies:  X-ECON323/INTS323   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate the ability to critically apply
microeconomic and macroeconomic concepts to the understanding of
international economic phenomena/problems; This course emphasizes
the role of economic leadership to promote peace and justice in a global
diverse world

--- Page 84 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 115
ECON 324   International Monetary Relations   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing, minimum grade of "C-" in ECON 201
and 202   
Examination of the operation of the international monetary system and
an analysis of the determination of currency flows between countries,
with topics of balance of payments statements, currency flows between
countries, determination of exchange rates, and international liquidity
problems.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, International Business   
Course equivalencies:  X-ECON324/INTS324   
Outcomes:
Student will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the operation of
the international currency market and be able to analyze exchange rates
with an emphasis on international liquidity and currency problems, and
risk management of currency fluctuations
ECON 325   Economics of Growth & Development   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing, minimum grade of "C-" in ECON 201
and 202   
This course describes and analyzes the problems and policy issues
facing developing countries and the third world with respect to their
economic and social policies and programs.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, International Business   
Course equivalencies:  X-ECON325/INTS325   
Outcomes:
The students are trained to evaluate the economic conditions that are
conducive to economic growth and critically assess ethical arguments as
they relate to growth, trade, and poverty in emerging countries; The role of
leadership is emphasized
ECON 327   American Economic & Business History   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing, minimum grade of "C-" in ECON 201
and 202   
This course emphasizes the evolution and the role of past business
leaders of the American economy from the colonial times to the present,
emphasizing the entrepreneurs and the environments in which they
operated. Economic and business change in the period 1865-1914
receives particular attention, as do the enterprises of Chicago-area
entrepreneurs.
Outcomes:
Students learn the skills required of entrepreneurs and business leaders
and their contribution to society; Students will develop an awareness
of the historical dynamics that produced the current economy, and how
its institutions evolved and the importance of markets in allocating
resources
ECON 328   Environmental Economics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing, minimum grade of "C-" in ECON 201   
This course applies economic theory to environmental and natural
resource problems and policies, investigates the role economic incentives
play, and discusses externalities, property rights, common property
problems, pollution and pollution control, and renewable and non-
renewable resource management.
Course equivalencies:  X-ECON328/ESP 328   
Outcomes:
Students will understand that environmental problems are fundamentally
economic problems that come about because there is a market failure
(eg, an externality or public good) and that environmental problems have
economic solutionsECON 329   Health Economics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing and a minimum grade of "C-" in
ECON 201   
This course provides an understanding of the unique economic
complexities of the health care industry and individual health behaviors.
Relying on economic principles of scarcity, efﬁciency, productivity,
and market behavior, demand and supply of health care, the role of
government in determining health care policy, and medical practices are
explored.
ECON 334   Economics of Government Expenditures & Taxation   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing, minimum grade of "C-" in ECON 303
and 304   
This course is an analysis of taxation and expenditure, instruments and
policies as they relate to the allocative, distributive, and stabilization
functions of government and society and ethical responsibilities of each.
Outcomes:
The student are able to understand and analyze public policy issues,
speciﬁcally as it relates to the voting process, size of government, tax
policy debates, and long-term problems of transfer payments in an aging
society
ECON 336   Monetary and Fiscal Policy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing, minimum grade of "C-" in ECON 201,
202 and 304   
This course uses macroeconomics to critically analyze the evolution of
monetary and ﬁscal policy from the late 19th century to the present as
well as current trends and topics relating to monetary and ﬁscal policy.
Outcomes:
Students will develop critical economic thinking skills as they apply
macroeconomic theory to historical events and discuss the potential
future paths of the world economy and for assessing the leadership
role of the government and Federal Reserve System in stabilizing the
domestic and world economy
ECON 346   Econometrics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing; minimum grade of "C-" in ISSCM 241
or ISSCM 241H or STAT 103; ECON 202; ECON 303; and MATH 130 or
MATH 131 or MATH 161   
This course teaches students how to use statistical tools to evaluate
hypotheses about economic models.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to interpret and critically analyze quantitative
information related to economics; Students will understand regression
analysis and understand how to use it to test economic models and
to measure important economic parameters, and to predict economic
relationships
ECON 360   Labor Economics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing, minimum grade of "C-" in ECON 303   
This course is an intensive examination of the market for labor services,
and discusses wage determination, occupational and earnings
differentials, diversity, investments in education, collective bargaining,
and the ethical implications of labor market inequality.
Outcomes:
Students will gain a broad understanding of how economists study
labor market issues and outcomes, and be able to use critical economic
reasoning to better appreciate such issues as labor force participation
decisions, human capital, and the variation in wages across individuals

--- Page 85 ---
116  College of Arts and Sciences
ECON 370   Pricing & Industrial Organization   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing, minimum grade of "C-" in ECON 303   
This course investigates ﬁrm behavior, strategies and market outcomes
in settings of less than perfect competition.
Outcomes:
Students learn to evaluate various strategies both in terms of ﬁrm
proﬁtability as well as consumer surplus
ECON 395   Independent Study in Economics   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing, instructor and dean permission
required   
Student will conduct in-depth research or reading, initiated by the student
and jointly developed with a faculty member, into a specialized area of
Economics not otherwise covered by department course offerings.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate in-depth understanding of a
specialized area or topic in Economics
ECON 399   Special Topics in Economics   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing   
Scheduled classes are offered on an ad hoc basis. Speciﬁc titles,
prerequisites and content will vary.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of specialized topics
not otherwise covered by department regular course offerings
Engineering (ENGR)
ENGR 100   Engineering Design Fundamentals   (1 Credit Hour)   
Restricted to students transferring into Engineering. This course provides
an introduction to engineering design for students transferring into
Engineering, who have completed an external Engineering Graphics
course. Major topics include engineering estimation, 2k factorial design,
teamwork, engineering ethics, and requirement speciﬁcations.
Outcomes:
Demonstration of proﬁciency in engineering design
ENGR 101   Introduction to Engineering Design   (4 Credit Hours)   
Restricted to Engineering students. This course is the ﬁrst of four
engineering design courses in the Engineering curriculum. Major
topics in this course include engineering estimation, three dimensional
computer-aided design, 2k factorial design, teamwork, engineering ethics,
requirement speciﬁcations, and design iteration.
Outcomes:
1) Demonstration of proﬁciency in engineering design; 2) Application of
teamwork principles to an open-ended design project
ENGR 102   Engineering Freshman Seminar   (1 Credit Hour)   
This seminar offers a shared learning experience with an assignment of
a service project and exposure to Industrial Advisory Board members and
Loyola administrators and faculty. In addition to providing intellectual
enhancement to the program, these seminars give us a time and place to
regularly interact. This class is restricted to Engineering freshman.
Outcomes:
Encourage bonding through a service project, stimulate thoughtful
interaction, provide connections with the faculty, and connect to the
broader industry communityENGR 201   Experiential Engineering   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 170 and (PHYS 112K or PHYS 122) (each with
minimum C-); Corequisite: CHEM 171   
This course introduces students to environmental, biomedical and
computer engineering-based sensors and signal analysis techniques.
Major topics in this course include an introduction to common
biomedical sensors, electronics, signals, sampling, analog-to-digital
conversion, c programming, microcontroller system architectures, and
microcontroller programming.
Outcomes:
Provide an experiential environment to learn about instrumentation
and sensors in biomedical, computer and environmental engineering;
Introduce complex devices and systems to understand, measure and
analyze signals
ENGR 311   Engineering Systems I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENGR 201 with a minimum grade of C-; Restricted to
Applied Mathematics and Engineering majors; Concurrent enrollment in
MATH 266 (Engineering majors only)   
ENGR 311 covers the fundamentals of signal and system analysis,
focusing on representations of discrete-time and continuous-time signals
and representations of linear, time-invariant systems. Major topics in this
course include convolution, Fourier series, Fourier Transform, and unit
impulse and unit step functions. Applications are drawn broadly from
engineering and physics.
Outcomes:
Understand basic concepts of discrete and continuous time signals;
Employ Fourier analysis to analyze simple LTI systems; Proﬁciently use
MATLAB as a numerical analysis tool
ENGR 312   Engineering Systems II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENGR 311, ENGR 321, (MATH 264 or MATH 266), and
COMP 170   
Introduces numerical methods and control systems theory. Students
are exposed to root ﬁnding, numerical integration and differentiation,
numerical solutions to ODEs, curve ﬁtting and regression techniques,
classical control system theory methods (Laplace transforms and
transfer functions, root locus design, Routh-Hurwitz stability analysis,
Bode and Nyquist plots) and the state variable method (controllability and
observability). Employ the state variable method.
Outcomes:
Understand the concepts of numerical methods, their strengths and
weaknesses; Use MATLAB as a numerical analysis tool; Apply Laplace
transforms and transfer functions
ENGR 313   Engineering Systems III   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENGR 312 with a minimum grade of C-; Restricted to
Applied Math and Engineering majors   
This course is an introduction to discrete-time signal processing and
system identiﬁcation. Major topics include the z-transform, inﬁnite/ﬁnite
impulse response ﬁlters, discrete/fast Fourier transform, models of linear
time-invariant systems, and parameter estimation methods.
Outcomes:
Reinforce fundamental knowledge of signal processing concepts;
Execute discrete-time signal processing techniques; Solve real-world
problems through use of modeling, prediction, and estimation methods

--- Page 86 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 117
ENGR 321   Electronic Circuits & Devices   (2 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHYS 112K or PHYS 122 (minimum C-); Corequisites:
ENGR 311 and (MATH 266 or MATH 264)   
This course is an introduction to electronic circuits and devices. Major
topics in this course include an introduction to Ohm's Law, Kirchhoff's
Current Law, Kirchhoff's Voltage Law, Nodal and Loop analysis, Thevenin's
and Norton's Theorems, and alternating current steady-state analysis.
Outcomes:
Deﬁne and explain the terminology associated with linear circuit theory;
Identify and solve linear circuits utilizing the most appropriate method for
the analysis
ENGR 322   Chemical & Thermal Processes   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (CHEM 171 or CHEM 102), (PHYS 111 or PHYS 121), (PHYS
112K or PHYS 122), and MATH 162 (each with minimum C-)   
This course provides an introduction to basic chemical and thermal
processes. Major topics include open and closed systems, control
volumes, microscopic vs. macroscopic, mass and energy balances, ﬁrst
and second laws of thermodynamics, entropy balance, exergy balance,
thermodynamic cycles, thermodynamic property relations, gas laws, and
chemical thermodynamics.
Outcomes:
Describe engineering systems and cycles using mass and energy
conservation laws, quantify chemical and thermodynamic properties of
pure substances, and analyze thermodynamics cycles and processes
ENGR 323   Digital Electronic & Computer Engineering   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (PHYS 112K or PHYS 122) and COMP 170 (each with
minimum C-); Corequisite: ENGR 324L   
This course is an introduction to digital design. Major topics in this
course include, but is not limited to, binary conversions, logic gates,
combinational logic design, sequential logic design, microprocessor
architecture, and an introduction to hardware description languages.
Outcomes:
Understand the fundamental building blocks of digital systems;
Understand and apply knowledge in the implementation and design of
digital circuits
ENGR 324   Mechanics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (PHYS 111 or PHYS 121), (PHYS 112K or PHYS 122), and
(MATH 264 or MATH 266) (each with minimum C-)   
Mechanics covers the fundamentals of modeling continuous media.
Major topics include stress, strain, and constitutive relations; elements
of tensor analysis; basic applications of solid and fluid mechanics; and
application of conservation laws to control volumes.
Outcomes:
Construct free-body diagrams to undertake structural analysis; Apply the
laws of conservation to solve engineering problems
ENGR 324L   Core Engineering Lab   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  ENGR majors only; Corequisites: ENGR 322, ENGR 323, and
ENGR 324   
This lab course enables students to experiment with concepts learned in
concurrently taken core engineering courses ENGR 322, ENGR 323, and
ENGR 324.
Outcomes:
Understand, apply and create an assembly-based program for ARM-
based microprocessors; Apply Thermodynamic and Flow principles in an
experimental contextENGR 325   Materials Engineering   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENGR 322 and ENGR 324 (minimum of C-)   
This course introduces concepts related to the structure, properties, and
processing of materials commonly used in engineering applications.
Major topics include material structure, bonding, crystalline and non-
crystalline structures, imperfections, properties of metals, metal alloys,
ceramics and polymers, phase transformation, and material failu res.
Outcomes:
Describe the microscale structure of metals, ceramics, polymers, and
composites; quantify and describe relationships among structure,
processing, and properties; understand the role of material selection in
contemporary engineering design applications
ENGR 341   Medical Device Systems   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 266, ENGR 321, ENGR 323, ENGR 324, BIOL 101, and
CHEM 171; ENGR majors only; Corequisites: ENGR 325, ENGR 341L, and
ENGR 313   
The relevant physiology, clinical need, history, and system descriptions
of eighteen fundamental medical devices are discussed and analyzed.
Students are also introduced to several medical device systems,
including medical instruments, electrical stimulators, and combination
products. These topics provide a foundational background for medical
device product development and regulation.
Outcomes:
Understand and analyze the clinical need and common subsystems
underlying eighteen fundamental medical devices; Evaluate the battery
requirements for commonly implantable medical devices
ENGR 341L   Medical Device Systems Laboratory   (1 Credit Hour)   
Introduction to the graphical user interface, data acquisition, and sensors
of common medical devices. The lab experiments are synchronized with
the presentation of medical device topics in ENGR 341. Students also
create a software application for a Sponsor from the School of Nursing.
Restricted to Engineering majors. Concurrent enrollment in ENGR 341.
Apply FDA design control principles for creation of a nursing software
application and accompanying requirement and design speciﬁcations.
Outcomes:
Use common medical devices subsystems
ENGR 342   Medical Device Software Development I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENGR 341 and ENGR 341L, each with a minimum grade of
C-  
This is the second semester of a three-semester Specialty course series
for students specializing in Biomedical Engineering. During the ﬁrst four
weeks, students increase their programming skills through exposure
to recurrence solving, sorting, and data structures. They then learn
how design and verify medical device software using model-based
engineering. Restricted to Engineering majors. Concurrent enrollment in
ENGR 381.
Outcomes:
Design a medical device through model-based engineering concepts

--- Page 87 ---
118  College of Arts and Sciences
ENGR 343   Medical Device Software Development II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Restricted to Engineering majors   
This is the third semester of a three-semester Specialty course series
for students specializing in Biomedical Engineering. During four weeks,
students increase their programming skills through exposure to advanced
data structures and graph algorithms. Separately, software issues that
the Food and Drug Administration considers during medical device
submissions are highlighted. ENGR 342 with a minimum grade of C-,
concurrent enrollment in ENGR 391.
Outcomes:
Analyze software issues that the FDA considers during medical device
submissions; Create user interface and cybersecurity code, according to
Requirements Speciﬁcations provided by the instructor
ENGR 351   Electronic Circuit Analysis and Design   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENGR 201, ENGR 312, and ENGR 321 (each with minimum
of C-); Corequisite: ENGR 351L   
A course for engineering students (computer engineering) that i ntroduces
advanced topics in the design and analysis of analog and digital
electronic circuits. Areas of emphasis include an introduction to
semiconductor physics, diodes, BJT transistors, CMOS devices, advanced
operational ampliﬁer circuits and frequency response fundamentals.
Outcomes:
Understand and apply fundamental concepts of semiconductor physics;
Understand and apply complex models to analyze analog and digital
microelectronic circuits
ENGR 351L   Circuit Design Laboratory   (1 Credit Hour)   
Co-requisites:  ENGR 351   
A lab for engineering students (in the computer engineering
specialization) to provide a ﬁrst experience working with semiconductor
devices (such as diodes, BJTs, MOSFETs, and Operational Ampliﬁers)
for the design, creation and analysis of microelectronics using lab
instruments.
Outcomes:
Identify integrated circuit design issues and develop applicable solutions;
Apply advanced principles in analog circuit design, creation and analysis
ENGR 352   Methods and Algorithms for Computer Engineers   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENGR 351 and ENGR 351L (each with minimum of C-)   
ENGR 352 is the second semester course of a three-semester Specialty
course series for students specializing in Computer Engineering. The
areas of emphasis are the analysis of the methods and algorithms used
in computer engineering. The course includes hands-on experiments and
a design project related to the computing performance and efﬁciency
improvement of engineering systems
Outcomes:
Evaluate the design and implementation of methods and algorithms
in computer engineering; Analyze the performance, efﬁciency and
computational complexities of algorithms using the time-and-space
tradeoffENGR 353   Programmable Systems   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENGR 352 (minimum C-)   
ENGR 353 is the third semester course of a three-semester Specialty
course series for students specializing in Computer Engineering. The
course consists of an introduction to programmable logic controllers,
relays, timers, counters, shift registers, human-machine interfaces
and programmable embedded systems. The course includes hands-
on experiments and a design project to evaluate the performance and
efﬁciency of programmable systems, related safety issues and hardware
troubleshooting for control and automation systems.
Outcomes:
Evaluate the performance and efﬁciency of programmable controllers,
embedded systems and processors; Design modern engineering tools to
integrate hardware and software components, and input-output devices
used in industries
ENGR 361   Fundamentals of Environmental Engineering   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 266, ENGR 322, ENGR 324, and ENGR 325 (each with
minimum C-); ENGR majors only; Corequisite: ENGR 361L   
This is the ﬁrst of three Specialization courses in Environmental
Engineering. Topics include aquatic chemistry, chemical thermodynamics
and kinetics, environmental soil and biogeochemistry, environmental
organic chemistry, surface and groundwater hydrology, atmospheric
processes, and fate and transport modeling of contaminants in natural
and engineered systems.
Outcomes:
Apply principles of environmental engineering to describe and quantify
key physical, biological and chemical phenomena in natural and
engineered systems
ENGR 361L   Fundamentals of Environmental Engineering Lab   (1 Credit
Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  ENGR majors only; Corequisite: ENGR 361   
This laboratory course introduces students to the analytical techniques
such as mass spectrometry and titration, relevant to environmental
engineering practice. This course emphasizes the design of ﬁeld
sampling campaigns of water and soil environments and the statistical
data analysis of experimentally estimated water and soil parameters.
Outcomes:
Quantify fundamental environmental parameters with emphasis on water
quality; Design and conduct a ﬁeld sampling campaign
ENGR 362   Water & Wastewater Engineering   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 266, ENGR 324, and CHEM 171 (each with minimum
C-)  
Theoretical and conceptual design of systems for treating municipal
wastewater and drinking water which include reactor theory, process
kinetics, and models. Physical, chemical, and biological processes
are presented, including sedimentation, ﬁltration, biological treatment,
disinfection, and sludge processing. Re-use of water and waste products
are also covered.
Outcomes:
Undertake calculations related to unit processes and undertake the
required calculations to design a municipal water and wastewater
treatment facility

--- Page 88 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 119
ENGR 363   Contemporary Environmental Engineering Challenges   (3
Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 266 and ENGR 324 (minimum C-)   
This is the third semester of a three-semester Specialty course series
for students specializing in Environmental Engineering. Overview of
engineering solutions to present day environmental issues. Technologies
focused on the mitigation and adaptation to climate change, the
modeling and design of best management practices Overview of
engineering solutions to present day environmental issues. Technologies
focused on the mitigation and adaptation to climate change, the
modeling and design of best management practices for stormwater
management, an exploration of conventional and renewable energy
technologies and the design of green infrastructure.
Outcomes:
Make aware of present and future environmental challenges; Understand
the current methods being employed to tackle current environmental
issues
ENGR 381   Biomedical Engineering Capstone Design I   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Restricted to Engineering majors; ENGR 341   
A major design experience based on the knowledge and skills acq uired
in earlier course work and incorporating appropriate engineering
standards and multiple realistic constraints. Each group is assigned
an industry-sponsored medical device software problem to solve. Each
week, a medical device product development or regulation topic is also
introduced.
Outcomes:
ABET Student Outcome (2): An ability to apply engineering design
to produce medical device solutions that meet speciﬁed needs with
consideration for public health, safety, welfare, and other factors
ENGR 382   Computer Engineering Capstone Design I   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Restricted to Engineering majors; ENGR 351   
First part of the team-based Capstone Design series for Computer
Engineering students. Students focus on the design of an indust ry-
sponsored project with practical, economic, and ethical constraints.
They learn the fundamentals of product development, quality, reliability,
ethics and project management as it relates to the ﬁeld of computer
engineering.
Outcomes:
ABET Student Outcome (2): An ability to apply engineering design
to produce microelectronic solutions that meet speciﬁed needs with
consideration for public health, safety, welfare, and other factors
ENGR 383   Environmental Engineering Capstone Design I   (4 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 266, ENGR 324, and ENGR 322 (each with minimum
C-); ENGR majors only   
A major design experience based on the knowledge and skills acq uired
in earlier course work and incorporating engineering standards and
multiple realistic constraints. Each group is assigned an environmental
engineering industry-sponsored design problem to solve. During the
semester, speciﬁc environmental design and regulation case studies will
be introduced.
Outcomes:
ABET Student Outcome (2): An ability to apply engineering design to
produce environmental engineering solution that meet speciﬁed needs
with consideration for public health, safety, environmental and other
factorsENGR 391   Biomedical Engineering Capstone Design II   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Restricted to Engineering majors; ENGR 381 during the
same academic year, ENGR 342, concurrent enrollment in ENGR 343   
Second semester of a major design experience based on knowledge
and skills acquired in earlier course work and incorporating appropriate
engineering standards and multiple realistic constraints. Each group
continues work on the industry-sponsored medical device projects
assigned in ENGR 381. Medical device product development or regulation
topics are also introduced.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
ABET Student Outcome (2): An ability to apply engineering design
to produce medical device solutions that meet speciﬁed needs with
consideration for public health, safety, welfare, and other factors
ENGR 392   Computer Engineering Capstone Design II   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Restricted to Engineering majors; ENGR 382 during the
same academic year, ENGR 352, concurrent enrollment in ENGR 353   
Second semester of a major design experience based on knowledge
and skills acquired in earlier course work and incorporating appropriate
engineering standards and multiple realistic constraints. Each group
continues work on the industry-sponsored design projects assigned in
ENGR 382. Computer engineering or professional development topics are
also introduced.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
ABET Student Outcome (2): An ability to apply engineering design to
produce computer engineering solutions that meet speciﬁed needs with
consideration for public health, safety, welfare, and other factors
ENGR 393   Environmental Engineering Capstone Design II   (4 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENGR 383 (minimum C-)   
Second semester of a major design experience based on knowledge
and skills acquired in earlier course work and incorporating appropriate
engineering standards and multiple realistic constraints. Each group
continues work on the industry-sponsored design projects assigned
in ENGR 383. Environmental engineering or professional development
topics are also introduced. ENGR majors only.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
ABET Student Outcome (2): An ability to apply engineering design to
produce environmental engineering solutions that meet speciﬁed needs
with consideration for public health, safety, welfare, and other factors
ENGR 398   Independent Study   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
The course enables independent study of selected topics in Biomedical,
Computer, and Environmental Engineering, under the supervision of a
faculty member. It may be repeated for credit. Restricted to Engineering
majors. Permission of Director.
Outcomes:
Application of engineering concepts, and analysis of Biomedical,
Computer, or Environmental Engineering systems

--- Page 89 ---
120  College of Arts and Sciences
English (ENGL)
ENGL 100   Developmental Writing   (3 Credit Hours)   
English 100 is a basic writing course that provides instruction in
fundamental composition skills to prepare the student for UCWR 110.
The course emphasizes mastery of grammar, usage, and punctuation.
Placement required.
Outcomes:
Students will develop skill in: writing with a clear audience and purpose
in mind; developing a clearly stated thesis which acts as the governing
idea of an essay; writing coherent paragraphs and well-organized longer
essays using various invention strategies; using transitions to link
ideas; exhibiting a working knowledge of basic grammar, usage, and
punctuation conventions
ENGL 102   College Composition ESL 1   (3 Credit Hours)   
English 102 is the ﬁrst of a two-course sequence designed to im prove
the linguistic abilities of those for whom English is a second language.
This course provides grammar and writing instruction for students who
require more focused work in revising language usage and composing
than English 103 can provide. Placement required.
Outcomes:
Students will develop skill in: writing essays that develop a clearly-
stated governing idea and that provide relevant support for that idea;
proceeding through all stages of the writing process: prewriting, drafting,
and revising, with emphasis on improving language usage; editing their
own compositions, and working with other students in peer-editing
groups; consistently employing English-language grammar, usage, and
punctuation
ENGL 103   College Composition ESL 2   (3 Credit Hours)   
English 103 is the second of two courses intended to improve the
linguistic abilities of those for whom English is a second language.
English 103 stresses the acquisition of necessary language skills in the
areas of grammar and usage, comprehension and critical reading, and
writing at a level appropriate to university study in an English-speaking
country. Placement required.
Outcomes:
Students develop skill in: writing with a clear audience and purpose in
mind; developing a clearly stated thesis which acts as the governing
idea of an essay; writing coherent paragraphs and well-organized longer
essays using various invention strategies; using transitions to link ideas;
exhibiting a working knowledge of grammar, usage, and punctuation
ENGL 210   Business Writing   (3 Credit Hours)   
English 210 provides training and practice in various forms of writing
(such as memos, instructions, letters, resumes, proposals, and reports)
relevant to students who are considering careers in business.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate familiarity with genres and styles of writing
commonly used in business, with the stages of the writing process, and
with individual and collaborative methods of composing
ENGL 211   Writing for Pre-Law Students   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  successful completion of UCWR 110   
Studies in argument and exposition from a lawyer's perspective for
students considering the study of law.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Sociolegal Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of the principles involved in writing
clear and effective prose for a variety of legal purposes, and be able to
apply these principles to their own writing in the ﬁeldENGL 220   Theory and Practice of Tutoring Writing   (3 Credit Hours)   
This seminar explores Writing Center pedagogical theory and practice. It
includes a community-based service-learning component that involves
community-service, professional development, leadership development,
civic engagement, and cross-curriculum collaboration on a daily basis to
continually improve the quality of the writing tutoring services.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
ENGL 271   Exploring Poetry   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
The course will survey British and American poetry, especially from
the Romantic movement on, especially of lyric kinds. Class discussion
will generally focus on the form and sense of individual poems, and
will in general be about poetic ways of meaning, and individual poets'
understandings of what poetry is and what it is to do.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  ENGL 271/ACENG 271   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of signiﬁcant
poems by selected British and American poets, demonstrate an
understanding of basic critical terminology, and demonstrate an
understanding of relevant critical perspectives on poetry
ENGL 272   Exploring Drama   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course focuses on the understanding, appreciation, and criticism
of drama; extensive readings and several critical analyses are required.
Students will also be able to demonstrate understanding of how plays are
constructed in different ways to serve different purposes.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of drama's ability to
express the deepest and most complex feelings and concerns of human
beings as individuals, as family members, and as members of soc iety: the
individual's place in the universe, in relation to others, and in relation to
the socio-political system that he or she inhabits
ENGL 273   Exploring Fiction   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course focuses on the understanding, appreciation, and criticism of
prose ﬁction.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  ENGL 273/ACENG 273   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of ﬁction as a means
of exploring human experience and understanding the creative process,
and be able to use the technical vocabulary necessary for understanding
ﬁction

--- Page 90 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 121
ENGL 274   Exploring Shakespeare   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course focuses on the works of Shakespeare as literature and
as theatre, covering at least three of the four genres (comedy, history,
tragedy, romance).
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  ACENG 274 / ENGL 274   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the theatrical and
poetic works of Shakespeare, such elements of drama as plot, character,
theme, imagery, and verse forms, as well as the personal, political and
theatrical world in which Shakespeare lived and worked
ENGL 282   African-American Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course focuses on the development of the African American literary
tradition from the emergence of the slave narrative to the contemporary
present.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora   
Course equivalencies:  ENGL 282 / ACENG 282   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to discuss the signiﬁcance of major African
American literary movements and the contributions of representative
writers from these periods
ENGL 282B   African-American Literature 1700-1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the development of the African American literary
tradition from the emergence of slave narrative to the contemporary
present. This particular version of the course focuses on material within
the time period 1700-1900.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Race
and Ethnicity   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to discuss the signiﬁcance of major African
American literary movements and the contributions of representative
writers from these periods
ENGL 282C   African-American Literature since 1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the development of the African American literary
tradition from the emergence of slave narrative to the contemporary
present. This particular version of the course focuses on material since
1900.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to discuss the signiﬁcance of major African
American literary movements and the contributions of representative
writers from these periodsENGL 283   Women in Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course focuses on the representation of women in literature, as
discussed in a variety of literary works.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  ENGL283/WOST283/WSGS283   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the
representations of women in various periods of literary history and
diverse cultural contexts
ENGL 284   Asian American Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course introduces the range of Asian American literature from its
earliest works around the turn of the 20th century to its proliferation in
contemporary literature.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film
& Media Studies, Race and Ethnicity, Film & Digital Media Studies,
International Film & Media Studies, Race and Ethnicity   
Course equivalencies:  X-ENGL284/ICVM284/IFMS284   
Outcomes:
Students will trace major developments in Asian American literature,
recognize the diversity of Asian American identities and histories, and
apply key concepts and historical contexts from Asian American culture
ENGL 287   Religion and Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course introduces the study of literature and religion as a
contemporary ﬁeld of inquiry. It aims to explain and illustrate the
nature and theoretical strategies of a religious literary criticism, and
to encourage an appreciation of this valuable and productive way of
reading.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, Catholic Studies, Catholic
Studies, Catholic Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to use the technical vocabulary necessary for
discussing literary representations of religious and spiritual experience
ENGL 288   Nature in Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course focuses on the relationship of human beings and the
environment in which they function, as represented in a variety of literary
works.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ENGL288/ESP 288/PAX 288   
Outcomes:
students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the
representations of ""nature"" in various periods of literary history and
diverse cultural contexts

--- Page 91 ---
122  College of Arts and Sciences
ENGL 290   Human Values in Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This variable topics course focuses on a perennial psychological or
philosophical problem facing the individual as exempliﬁed in literary
works, e.g., the passage from innocence to experience, the problem of
death, and the idea of liberty.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  ACENG 276 / ENGL 290   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the ability of
literature to express the deepest and most abiding concerns of human
beings, and how literary works come to be
ENGL 292   South Asian Literature and Civilizations   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
An introduction to South Asian literatures and civilizations, from ancient
to contemporary times, with attention to social institutions, religious
practices, artistic achievements, literature, and modern challenges.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of the cultures and civilizations of
South Asia
ENGL 293   Advanced Writing   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCWR 110 or equivalent (grade of C- or higher)   
This advanced writing course will focus on scholarly theories about the
practice and process of writing. Course work will center on students'
reconsiderations of their own writing processes in the context of
scholarly composition theory.
Outcomes:
Students will develop and demonstrate theoretical knowledge of
advanced strategies for producing academic writing
ENGL 294   Writing in/with New Media   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCWR 110 or equivalent, grade of C- or higher   
This advanced writing course will consider how communication is
mediated and remediated in the digital age, and draw connections
between historical moments of print culture with that of contemporary
technological advancement. Writing will engage emerging digital genres
(websites, blogs, memes), digital storytelling, multimodal composition,
and social media.
Outcomes:
Learn terms/theories/concepts of new media historically and in the
present; identify interactions between new media, writing, and other
disciplines; effectively move a piece of writing from concept to revision
ENGL 295   Writing Toward Social Justice: Eloquentia Perfecta   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCWR 110 or equivalent, grade of C- or better   
Course will address problems of community concern through Jesuit
rhetorical practice, with basis in thinking, acting and reflecting.
Students will learn how to write and speak in a variety of outward-
facing modalities. They will work in partnership with a local community
organization, applying techniques and practices learned in the classroom.
Outcomes:
Reflection: personal concerns and values; Community organization
collaboration: writing and presentation projects; Peer review and group
writing; Proﬁciency in modalities: op-ed pieces, funding requests,
promotional writing, multimodal presentations, grant writingENGL 299   Topics in Advanced Writing   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCWR 110   
This is a course in writing clear and effective prose in whatever form/
genre is being studied; the subtitle will deﬁne the form/genre more
precisely.
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of the principles involved in writing
clear and effective prose in whatever form/genre is under study, and be
able to apply these principles to their own writing in this for m/genre
ENGL 300   History of English Language   (3 Credit Hours)   
Study of the origin and development of English: its sounds, word-forms,
and syntax.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of the history of English and some
understanding of linguistic theory
ENGL 303   Grammar: Principles & Pedagogy   (3 Credit Hours)   
A study of English grammar focusing on linguistic applications such
as the teaching of Standard American English to native and non-native
speakers, to speakers of Ebonics, and other classroom applications.
Required for students planning to teach high school English, but open to
others.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of grammar and sentence
structure sufﬁcient to teach them
ENGL 306   Studies in Women Writers   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course investigates signiﬁcant issues raised in and by women-
authored works. Readings may cover ﬁction, drama, and/or poetry from
any literary period.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain knowledge about women's lives and writings; will
understand the difference gender makes to the writing, reading, and
interpretation of literature; and will acquire the critical vocabulary that will
enable them to describe and analyze, and formulate arguments about,
women-authored literature
ENGL 306A   Studies in Women Writers Before 1700   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course investigates signiﬁcant issues raised in and by women-
authored works. Readings may cover ﬁction, drama, and/or poetry from
before 1700.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain knowledge about women's lives and writings; will
understand the difference gender makes to the writing, reading, and
interpretation of literature; and will acquire the critical vocabulary that will
enable them to describe and analyze, and formulate arguments about,
women-authored literature
ENGL 306B   Studies in Women Writers 1700-1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course investigates signiﬁcant issues raised in and by women-
authored works. Readings may cover ﬁction, drama, and/or poetry within
the period from 1700-1900.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain knowledge about women's lives and writings; will
understand the difference gender makes to the writing, reading, and
interpretation of literature; and will acquire the critical vocabulary that will
enable them to describe and analyze, and formulate arguments about,
women-authored literature

--- Page 92 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 123
ENGL 306C   Studies in Women Writers Since 1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course investigates signiﬁcant issues raised in and by women-
authored works. Readings may cover ﬁction, drama, and/or poetry since
1900.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain knowledge about women's lives and writings; will
understand the difference gender makes to the writing, reading, and
interpretation of literature; and will acquire the critical vocabulary that will
enable them to describe and analyze, and formulate arguments about,
women-authored literature
ENGL 307   Topics in Feminist and Gender Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an intensive study of selected issues in women's studies or
gender studies in relation to literature.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ENGL307/WOST307/WSGS307   
ENGL 311   U.S. Latino/a Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCWR 110 plus one 200-level ENGL course   
Students will study literature by U.S. Latino and Latina writers (esp.
Mexican American, Puerto Rican, Dominican American, and Cuban
American). Readings will highlight the variety of aesthetic styles and
cultural points of view that characterize this rapidly growing ﬁeld.
Issues like language (bilingualism, translation, and code-switching),
immigration, nationalism, transnationalism, and citizenship will be
especially important.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Latin American Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will develop analytical tools, culturally-speciﬁc terms, and
critical questions to help them to interpret and to write about Latino/a
literature
ENGL 312   Studies in World Literature in English   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCWR 110 and a 200-level English course   
This course adopts a transnational, trans-historical approach to
Anglophone world literatures. Readings may include global, postcolonial,
and/or diasporic literatures in English.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will develop analytical tools, culturally-speciﬁc terminology, and
critical questions to enable them to interpret and formulate arguments
about global English-language literatures
ENGL 312A   Studies in World Literature in English Before 1700   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course will introduce students to a range of critical and theoretical
approaches to the study of world literatures in English. Authors studied
may include leading theorists like Frantz Fanon, Edward Said, Gayatri
Spivak, Homi Bhabha, Paul Gilroy, and Arjun Appadurai; and literary
writers before 1700.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the critical
skills and theoretical insights necessary for discussing, analyzing and
formulating arguments about world literatures in EnglishENGL 312B   Studies in World Literature in English 1700-1900   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course will introduce students to a range of critical and theoretical
approaches to the study of world literatures in English. Authors studied
may include leading theorists like Frantz Fanon, Edward Said, Gayatri
Spivak, Homi Bhabha, Paul Gilroy, and Arjun Appadurai; and literary
writers within the period of 1700-1900.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the critical
skills and theoretical insights necessary for discussing, analyzing and
formulating arguments about world literatures in English
ENGL 312C   Studies in World Literature in English Since 1900   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course will introduce students to a range of critical and theoretical
approaches to the study of world literatures in English. Authors studied
may include leading theorists like Frantz Fanon, Edward Said, Gayatri
Spivak, Homi Bhabha, Paul Gilroy, and Arjun Appadurai; and literary
writers since 1900.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the critical
skills and theoretical insights necessary for discussing, analyzing and
formulating arguments about world literatures in English
ENGL 313   Border Literatures   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will survey a range of contemporary ﬁction that crosses
national, cultural, social, political and personal borders. The study of
border literatures will vary, and may include Hispanic-American writers,
the Caribbean poet, Derek Walcott, and other literatures that move
between disparate locations (England, India, Africa, Burma, etc.).
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Race and Ethnicity   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate familiarity with contempor ary
theoretical approaches, and to analyze texts that demonstrate how
personal, cultural, and political identities develop in transnational
contexts
ENGL 313A   Border Literature Before 1700   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will survey a range of contemporary ﬁction that crosses
national, cultural, social, political and personal borders. The focus of the
study of border literatures before 1700 will vary, and may include various
writers in literatures that move between disparate locations (England, the
Americas, India, Africa, Burma, etc.).
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate familiarity with contempor ary
theoretical approaches, and to analyze texts that demonstrate how
personal, cultural, and political identities develop in transnational
contexts
ENGL 313B   Border Literature 1700-1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will survey a range of contemporary ﬁction that crosses
national, cultural, social, political and personal borders. The study of
border literatures from within this period will vary, and may include
various writers in literature that move between disparate locations
(England, the Americas, India, Africa, Burma, etc.).
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate familiarity with contempor ary
theoretical approaches, and to analyze texts that demonstrate how
personal, cultural, and political identities develop in transnational
contexts

--- Page 93 ---
124  College of Arts and Sciences
ENGL 313C   Border Literature Since 1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will survey a range of contemporary ﬁction that crosses
national, cultural, social, political and personal borders. The focus of
the study of border literatures from within this period will vary, and
may include various writers in literatures that move between disparate
locations (England, the Americas, India, Africa, Burma, etc.).
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate familiarity with contempor ary
theoretical approaches, and to analyze texts that demonstrate how
personal, cultural, and political identities develop in transnational
contexts
ENGL 315   South Asian Literatures in English   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the study of literature written in English from
South Asia and the South Asian diaspora. Authors studied may include
Narayan, Naipaul, Desai, Sidhwa, and Rushdie.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the personal,
cultural, and political experiences of South Asia's diverse populations as
they are reflected in the literature of the modern and contemporary period
ENGL 315C   South Asian Literature Since 1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the study of literature written in English from
South Asia and the South Asian diaspora, focusing on the period since
1900. Authors studied may include Narayan, Naipaul, Desai, Sidwa, and
Rushdie.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the personal,
cultural, and political experiences of South Asia's diverse populations as
they are reflected in the literature of the modern and contemporary period
ENGL 316C   Caribbean Literature in English Since 1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will introduce students to the study of literature written in
English from the Caribbean in this period. Authors studied may include
Lamming, Rhys, Walcott, Cliff, Lovelace, and Brathwaite.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Global
Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the different
genres of Caribbean literature, as well as the personal, political, and
cultural contexts of the literature
ENGL 317   The Writing of Poetry   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides extensive practice in both the reading and the
writing of poetry.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the critical skills
necessary for discussing, analyzing and formulating arguments about
poetry, and will produce a portfolio of original poems
ENGL 318   The Writing of Fiction   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will discuss the techniques of ﬁction writing and w ill offer
guidance in writing some works of original short ﬁction.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the critical skills
necessary for discussing, analyzing and formulating arguments about
ﬁction, and will produce original short storiesENGL 318R   The Writing of Fiction: Writing Rome   (3 Credit Hours)   
By exploring the city of Rome through reading, writing, and on-site
classes, students will be provided with an interdisciplinary approach to
the generation of written work. This course will discuss the techniques of
ﬁction writing, drawing inspiration from the city of Rome as a backdrop.
On-site classes will enrich the ﬁction writing process, while in-class
workshops will offer guidance in writing works of short original ﬁction.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Italian Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the critical skills
necessary for discussing, analyzing and formulating arguments about
ﬁction, and will produce original works of ﬁction in the form of writing
portfolio
ENGL 319   Writing Creative Nonﬁction   (3 Credit Hours)   
A workshop in writing and critiquing original creative nonﬁction in several
representative sub-genres.
Outcomes:
Students will learn to apply both traditional ﬁctional techniques (eg, in-
depth characterization, dramatic plot development, speciﬁc concrete
detail) and more innovative ones (eg, shifting chronology, genre mixing,
eccentric voices, multiple points-of-view) in their nonﬁction writing
ENGL 320   English Literature: Medieval Period   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides a survey of Old and Middle English Literature,
studied partly in translation and partly in the original.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies, Medieval
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ENGL320/CATH321/MSTU308   
Outcomes:
Students will receive training in the understanding, appreciation, and
criticism of works of medieval culture
ENGL 321   Intro to Anglo-Saxon   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces students to the fundamentals of the Old English
language (c. 600-1150), surveying poetry and prose in the original.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Medieval Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ENGL321/MSTU312   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to read Old English and to demonstrate a knowledge
of literary works written during the Anglo-Saxon period
ENGL 322   Chaucer   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces students to the life and writings of Chaucer
through the reading of a representative selection (but not necessarily
all) of The Canterbury Tales and through considering a variety of critical
perspectives on them.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies, Medieval
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ENGL322/MSTU316   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge of Chaucer's poetry,
the ability to read Middle English, and familiarity with some critical
perspectives on Chaucer's works

--- Page 94 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 125
ENGL 323   Studies in Medieval Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
Intensive study of speciﬁc topics in the ﬁeld of Medieval literature and
culture.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies, Medieval
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ENGL323/MSTU320   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of signiﬁcant
works of the Medieval period, of the historical political, social and
intellectual backgrounds that provide a context for the works studied, and
of relevant theoretical and critical perspectives
ENGL 325   British Literature-The Renaissance   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a study of selected literature of the Tudor, Stuart, and
Cromwellian periods, excluding Shakespeare, by authors such as Sidney,
Spenser, Lanyer, Donne, Wroth, and Milton.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Shakespeare Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will become familiar with: the texts of signiﬁcant authors of the
period; how to read these texts in relation to the intellectual and social
contexts in which they were produced; the literary genres, traditions, and
conventions they employed and transformed
ENGL 326   Shakespeare: Selected Major Plays   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an advanced study of selected plays as theatre and as
literature. Topics may include Shakespeare's life, sources, and influence;
background of Early Modern literature and drama; Shakespeare's theatre;
the tradition of Shakespeare criticism.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Shakespeare Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of, to analy ze, and to
defend interpretations of the plays of Shakespeare
ENGL 327   Studies in Shakespeare   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENGL 274 or 326   
Intensive reading of selected Shakespeare plays.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Shakespeare Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of, to analy ze, and
to defend interpretations of a particular body of plays by Shakespeare,
chosen by genre, theme, etc
ENGL 328   Studies in The Renaissance   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course will be a highly selective survey of late Renaissance literature,
from John Donne and Ben Jonson to Andrew Marvell.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies, Shakespeare
Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to: 1) demonstrate an understanding of
signiﬁcant works by selected Renaissance authors; 2) demonstrate
an understanding of historical, political, social, and intellectual
backgrounds as they provide a context for the poems; 3) demonstrate an
understanding of relevant theoretical and critical perspectives
ENGL 329   Milton   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will cover Milton's early poetry, one or two of his prose
works, and his late, major poems: Paradise Lost, Paradise Regained, and
Samson Agonistes.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to: 1) demonstrate an understanding of Mi lton's
major works, and a knowledge of his career; 2) demonstrate an
understanding of social, political, and cultural backgrounds as they
provide a context for Milton's poems; 3) demonstrate an understanding of
relevant theoretical and critical perspectivesENGL 335   British Literature - The Romantic Period   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the study of literature of the Romantic movement
in its historical context; authors may include Blake, Wordsworth,
Coleridge, Smith, Byron, P .B. Shelley, M.W. Shelley, Keats, Hemans, Hazlitt,
and Austin.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge of major works of the
Romantic movement, and of its relationship to historical developments of
the period
ENGL 338   Studies in The Romantic Movmnt   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students will engage in intensive consideration of selected Romantic
period texts. The focus of the course will vary according to the
instructor's choice of topic.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to discuss and analyze the texts studied in this
course, and to articulate diverse positions on the issues related to the
course's central topic
ENGL 340   British Literature - The Victorian Period   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides a survey of important works of prose, poetry, and
ﬁction from the Victorian period (1832-1901). Authors may include
Tennyson, the Brownings, Arnold, the Brontës, Hopkins, Hardy, Newman,
Dickens, Thackeray, and George Eliot.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate their ability to analyze and interpret a variety
of works studied in the course, and to articulate an awareness of the
social, political, and historical contexts that inform an understanding of
these works
ENGL 343   Studies in the Victorian Period   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides an opportunity for intensive consideration of
selected Victorian texts that centers on a particular theme or genre or
author. The course will vary each time it is taught.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge of the subject of the
course and an appreciation of that particular aspect of Victorian life, art,
and thought
ENGL 344   Studies in Modernism   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCWR 110 and a 200-level English course   
The course focuses on selected issues in current critical discussions
of modernism. The issues may concern competing conceptions of
modernism and individual writers associated with modernism.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to articulate diverse positions on the issues of the
course
ENGL 345   British Literature Since 1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCWR 110 and one 200-level English course   
This course focuses on selected examples of British poetry, ﬁction,
drama, ﬁlm, and non-ﬁction written in the 20th century. The principle of
selection may be cultural, theoretical, or formal.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge of assigned texts and
will be able to explain the relationship among assigned texts in relation to
the themes of the course

--- Page 95 ---
126  College of Arts and Sciences
ENGL 348   Studies in British Literature Since 1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCWR 110 and any 200-level English course   
This course focuses intensively on selected twentieth century British
texts in relation to social and literary issues of the period. The selection
may focus on cultural, theoretical, or formal issues.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate detailed knowledge of particular
texts and will be able to describe the relation of the assigned texts to a
particular set of critical questions
ENGL 350   Studies in Postmodernism   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCWR 110 and any 200-level English course   
Postmodernism, as an aesthetic response to postmodernity, is an
interdisciplinary concept, originating in architecture and encompassing
literature, art in various media, digital media, and literary and cultural
theory. Focusing primarily on Western literature and theory after WWII,
this course investigates postmodernism as a literary period, an aesthetic
style, an historical moment, and a cultural problematic.
Outcomes:
Students will learn how the term "postmodernism" functions as a literary
period, an aesthetic style, an historical moment, a cultural problematic, as
well as a theoretical imperative
ENGL 351   Contemporary Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
Contemporary literature is most often deﬁned as literature produced after
WWII. This course explores the challenge of deﬁning "contemporary"
literature by reading a range of texts from the period in their aesthetic,
social, historical, and cultural contexts.
Outcomes:
Students will learn critical and analytical tools for reading contemporary
literature
ENGL 354   Contemporary Critical Theory   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course, which is required of all English majors, introduces students
to critical terminology and to issues in contemporary criticism and theory.
Readings may include critical works that have informed and established
formalist, feminist, psychoanalytic, and Marxist approaches to literary
analysis, as well as those associated with gender studies, cultural
studies, postcolonialism, and deconstruction.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge and understanding of
signiﬁcant texts and theories relating to issues in contemporary criticism
ENGL 355   Studies in Literary Criticism   (3 Credit Hours)   
Intensive study of speciﬁc topics in the ﬁeld of literary criticism and
theory.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of signiﬁcant
works in the designated ﬁeld, and will be able to discuss relevant
theoretical and critical perspectives
ENGL 357   Literature from a Writer's Perspective   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCWR 110 and any 200-level English course   
This course examines literature from various periods in poetry and/or
prose for technical innovation and genre development, with particular
emphasis on applications to the creative process.
Outcomes:
Students will gain a deeper understanding of the technical innovations
and/or genre developments being studied, and will be able to apply these
to their own creative works of ﬁction and/or poetryENGL 358   Cultural Theory   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides an introduction to the theory informing the ﬁeld of
Cultural Studies and to the history of theoretical writings about "culture. "
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge and understanding of
signiﬁcant theoretical texts in the ﬁeld of cultural studies
ENGL 359   High and Low Culture   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students will study the interactions between elite and popular culture,
possibly focusing on a historical period or on a conceptual issue such as
the framing of "canons. " Students will review and assess the assumptions
and goals of those who create and critique works of culture. Students will
also analyze the criteria by which speciﬁc works are judged.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to describe, analyze, and formulate an argument
about cultural productions, using appropriate critical and technical
vocabulary
ENGL 359A   High and Low Culture Before 1700   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students will study the interaction between elite and popular c ulture,
focusing on the material and issues relating to the period before 1700.
Students will review and assess the assumption and goals of those
who create and critique works of culture. Students will also analyze the
criteria by which speciﬁc works are judged.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to describe, analyze, and formulate an argument
about cultural productions, using appropriate critical and technical
vocabulary
ENGL 359B   High and Low Culture 1700-1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students will study the interaction between elite and popular c ulture,
focusing on the material and issues relating to the period from
1700-1900. Students will review and assess the assumption and goals of
those who create and critique works of culture. Students will also analyze
the criteria by which speciﬁc works are judged.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to describe, analyze, and formulate an argument
about cultural productions, using appropriate critical and technical
vocabulary
ENGL 359C   High and Low Culture Since 1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students will study the interaction between elite and popular c ulture,
focusing on the material and issues relating to the period after 1900.
Students will review and assess the assumption and goals of those
who create and critique works of culture. Students will also analyze the
criteria by which speciﬁc works are judged.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to describe, analyze, and formulate an argument
about cultural productions, using appropriate critical and technical
vocabulary

--- Page 96 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 127
ENGL 361   Modernist Poetry   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCWR 110 and any 200-level ENGL course   
This course is a study of poetry written in response to the conditions
of modernity from the late 19th century to the middle of the 20th. The
course focuses on poetic style and technique as well as on historical and
cultural contexts.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge and understanding of
signiﬁcant texts, techniques, and concepts in modernist poetry, and to
situate these in relation to important literary and historical contexts
ENGL 362   Studies in Poetry   (3 Credit Hours)   
Study of poetry centered on a theme, topic, genre, critical approach,
author, or group of authors. Readings may cut across historical periods
and geographical boundaries.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge and understanding of
poetic texts and of their interrelationships and contexts
ENGL 362A   Studies in Poetry Before 1700   (3 Credit Hours)   
Study of poetry centered on a theme, topic, genre, critical approach,
author, or group of authors. Readings may cut across historical periods
and geographical boundaries, but will focus on poetry written before
1700.
Course equivalencies:  ENGL362/362A/362B/362C   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge and understanding of
poetic texts and of their interrelationships and contexts
ENGL 362B   Studies in Poetry 1700-1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
Study of poetry centered on a theme, topic, genre, critical approach,
author, or group of authors. Readings may cut across historical periods
and geographical boundaries, but will focus on poetry written between
1700 and 1900.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge and understanding of
poetic texts and of their interrelationships and contexts
ENGL 362C   Studies in Poetry Since 1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
Study of poetry centered on a theme, topic, genre, critical approach,
author, or group of authors. Readings may cut across historical periods
and geographical boundaries, but will focus on poetry written since 1900.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge and understanding of
poetic texts and of their interrelationships and contexts
ENGL 363A   Major Author, Before 1700   (3 Credit Hours)   
Intensive study of the works and contexts of a major author, before 1700.
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the texts and
contexts of a major author, before 1700.
ENGL 363B   Major Author, 1700-1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
Intensive study of the works and contexts of a major author, 1700-1900.
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the texts and
contexts of a major author, before 1700.
ENGL 363C   Major Author, After 1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
Intensive study of the works and contexts of a major author, after 1900.
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the texts and
contexts of a major author, after 1900.ENGL 367   Modern Drama   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCWR 110 and any 200-level ENGL course   
This course is a study of dramatists and dramatic forms, techniques, and
innovations from the late-nineteenth century to the present.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to recognize and deﬁne major modern
dramaturgical techniques and to demonstrate understanding of, to
analyze, and to defend interpretations of a variety of plays
ENGL 368   Studies in Drama   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a study of drama centered on a theme, topic, genre, critical
approach, author, or group of authors. Readings may cut across historical
periods and geographical boundaries.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the chose n plays
in their thematic, generic, or other chosen context; they will be able to
analyze and defend interpretations of a variety of plays
ENGL 368A   Studies in Drama Before 1700   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a study of drama centered on a theme, topic, genre, critical
approach, author, or group of authors. Readings may cut across historical
periods and geographical boundaries, but will focus on drama written
before 1700.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the chose n plays
in their thematic, generic, or other chosen context; they will be able to
analyze and defend interpretations of a variety of plays
ENGL 368B   Studies in Drama 1700-1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a study of drama centered on a theme, topic, genre, critical
approach, author, or group of authors. Readings may cut across historical
periods and geographical boundaries, but will focus on drama written
between 1700 and 1900.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the chose n plays
in their thematic, generic, or other chosen context; they will be able to
analyze and defend interpretations of a variety of plays
ENGL 368C   Studies in Drama Since 1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a study of drama centered on a theme, topic, genre, critical
approach, author, or group of authors. Readings may cut across historical
periods and geographical boundaries, but will focus on drama written
since 1900.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the chose n plays
in their thematic, generic, or other chosen context; they will be able to
analyze and defend interpretations of a variety of plays
ENGL 369A   Women in Drama Before 1700   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on women as playwrights, actors, directors,
spectators, and subjects of drama before 1700.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the ways in which
women and issues important to women have been presented on the
stage; they will be able to analyze and defend interpretations of a variety
of plays

--- Page 97 ---
128  College of Arts and Sciences
ENGL 369B   Women in Drama 1700-1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on women as playwrights, actors, directors,
spectators, and subjects of drama between 1700 and 1900.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the ways in which
women and issues important to women have been presented on the
stage; they will be able to analyze and defend interpretations of a variety
of plays
ENGL 371   The Modern Novel   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCWR 110 and any 200-level ENGL course   
This course covers novels since the late 19th century and explores formal
and cultural influences on the form.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the critical
skills and theoretical insights necessary for discussing, analyzing and
formulating arguments about the novel in the modern world
ENGL 372   Studies in Fiction   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a study of ﬁction centered on a theme, topic, genre, critical
approach, author, or group of authors. Readings may cut across historical
periods and geographical boundaries.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an ability to employ descriptive
and critical language appropriate to the discussion and analysis of
ﬁction generally and, in particular, of the kind of ﬁction (eg theme, topic,
genre, etc) on which the course is centered; Students will be able to
demonstrate an ability to articulate the formal and thematic continuities
and discontinuities among these works
ENGL 372A   Studies in Fiction Before 1700   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a study of ﬁction centered on a theme, topic, genre, critical
approach, author, or group of authors. Readings may cut across historical
periods and geographical boundaries, but will focus on ﬁction written
before 1700.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an ability to employ descriptive
and critical language appropriate to the discussion and analysis of
ﬁction generally and, in particular, of the kind of ﬁction (eg theme, topic,
genre, etc) on which the course is centered; Students will be able to
demonstrate an ability to articulate the formal and thematic continuities
and discontinuities among these works
ENGL 372B   Studies in Fiction 1700-1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a study of ﬁction centered on a theme, topic, genre, critical
approach, author, or group of authors. Readings may cut across historical
periods and geographical boundaries, but will focus on ﬁction written
between 1700-1900.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an ability to employ descriptive
and critical language appropriate to the discussion and analysis of
ﬁction generally and, in particular, of the kind of ﬁction (eg theme, topic,
genre, etc) on which the course is centered; Students will be able to
demonstrate an ability to articulate the formal and thematic continuities
and discontinuities among these worksENGL 372C   Studies in Fiction Since 1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a study of ﬁction centered on a theme, topic, genre, critical
approach, author, or group of authors. Readings may cut across historical
periods and geographical boundaries, but will focus on ﬁction written
since 1900.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an ability to employ descriptive
and critical language appropriate to the discussion and analysis of
ﬁction generally and, in particular, of the kind of ﬁction (eg theme, topic,
genre, etc) on which the course is centered; Students will be able to
demonstrate an ability to articulate the formal and thematic continuities
and discontinuities among these works
ENGL 375   American Literature to 1865   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a study of selected works of American Literature of this
period against the background of historical events, political and social
changes, moral and cultural traditions. Authors may include Bradford,
Bradstreet, Franklin, Poe, Hawthorne, Melville, Emerson, and Thoreau.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the disti nctive
historical conditions that inform American literature of this period, and
will be able to identify and discuss some of its ideological and generic
characteristics
ENGL 376   American Literature 1865-1914   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a study of the rise of American Literature of this period.
Authors may include Whitman, Dickinson, Twain, James, and Dreiser.
Course equivalencies:  ENGL 376 / ENGL 380   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the disti nctive
historical conditions that inform American literature of this period, and
will be able to identify and discuss some of its ideological and generic
characteristics
ENGL 377   American Literature 1914-1945   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCWR 110 and any 200-level ENGL course   
This course is a study of literature of early twentieth-century America.
Authors may include Cather, Eliot, Frost, Hemingway, Fitzgerald, Faulkner,
O'Neill, Miller and Williams.
Course equivalencies:  ENGL 377 / ENGL 385   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge of the literature of this
period in American history, and familiarity with critical perspectives on
the works studied
ENGL 379   Studies in American Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on texts written by American authors. This advanced
seminar course varies in topic and may concentrate on a selection of
works by a major American writer or a particular literary movement,
period, or theme.
Outcomes:
students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of American
literature and culture with focused attention to a major or distinctive
feature of the American literary tradition
ENGL 379A   Studies in American Literature Before 1700   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course focuses on texts written by American authors. This advanced
seminar course varies in topic and may concentrate on a selection of
works by a major American writer or a particular literary movement or
theme before 1700.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of American
literature and culture with focused attention to a major or distinctive
feature of the American literary tradition

--- Page 98 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 129
ENGL 379B   Studies in American Literature 1700-1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on texts written by American authors. This advanced
seminar course varies in topic and may concentrate on a selection of
works by a major American writer or a particular literary movement or
theme in the period from 1700-1900.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of American
literature and culture with focused attention to a major or distinctive
feature of the American literary tradition
ENGL 379C   Studies in American Literature Since 1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on texts written by American authors. This advanced
seminar course varies in topic and may concentrate on a selection of
works by a major American writer or a particular literary movement or
theme in the period since 1900.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of American
literature and culture with focused attention to a major or distinctive
feature of the American literary tradition
ENGL 381   Comparative American Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the study of U.S. literature and culture in relation
to other literatures and cultures.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an ability to identify the formal and thematic
features that, as literature, US writing shares with the literature of other
cultures; Students will also demonstrate an ability to specify the formal
and thematic features that, as an expression of and response to cultural
forces particular to the US, differentiate US writing from that of other
cultures
ENGL 381A   Comparative Literature Before 1700   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the study of U.S. literature and culture in relation
to other literatures and cultures, with a focus on the period before 1700.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an ability to identify the formal and thematic
features that, as literature, US writing shares with the literature of other
cultures; Students will also demonstrate an ability to specify the formal
and thematic features that, as an expression of and response to cultural
forces particular to the US, differentiate US writing from that of other
cultures
ENGL 381B   Comparative American Literature 1700 - 1900   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course focuses on the study of U.S. literature and culture in relation
to other literatures and cultures, with a focus on the period before 1700.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an ability to identify the formal and thematic
features that, as literature, US writing shares with the literature of other
cultures; Students will also demonstrate an ability to specify the formal
and thematic features that, as an expression of and response to cultural
forces particular to the US, differentiate US writing from that of other
cultures
ENGL 381C   Comparative American Literature Since 1900   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course focuses on the study of U.S. literature and culture in relation
to other literatures and cultures, with a focus on the period since 1900.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an ability to identify the formal and thematic
features that, as literature, US writing shares with the literature of other
cultures; Students will also demonstrate an ability to specify the formal
and thematic features that, as an expression of and response to cultural
forces particular to the US, differentiate US writing from that of other
culturesENGL 382   Studies in American Culture   (3 Credit Hours)   
Intensive study of speciﬁc topics in the ﬁeld of American culture.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of signiﬁcant
works by selected American authors, of the historical political, social and
intellectual backgrounds that provide a context for the works studied, and
of relevant theoretical and critical perspectives
ENGL 382A   Studies in American Culture Before 1700   (3 Credit Hours)   
Intensive study of speciﬁc topics in the ﬁeld of American culture before
1700.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of signiﬁcant
works by selected American authors, of the historical political, social and
intellectual backgrounds that provide a context for the works studied, and
of relevant theoretical and critical perspectives
ENGL 382B   Studies in American Culture 1700-1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
Intensive study of speciﬁc topics in the ﬁeld of American culture between
1700 and 1900.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of signiﬁcant
works by selected American authors, of the historical political, social and
intellectual backgrounds that provide a context for the works studied, and
of relevant theoretical and critical perspectives
ENGL 382C   Studies in American Culture Since 1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
Intensive study of speciﬁc topics in the ﬁeld of American culture since
1900.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of signiﬁcant
works by selected American authors, of the historical political, social and
intellectual backgrounds that provide a context for the works studied, and
of relevant theoretical and critical perspectives
ENGL 383   Theology and Literature   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Study of theological and religious symbols and themes in modern
literature and/or in the arts.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO383/ENGL383/CATH383   
Outcomes:
The student who successfully completes this course will be able to
demonstrate knowledge about religion and its intersections with selected
contemporary ethical, social, political, economic, or cultural issues
ENGL 384   Studies in African American Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
Intensive study of texts written by African American authors. The
course varies in topic and may concentrate on a selection of works by a
major African American writer or a particular African American literary
movement, period, or theme.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of African
American literature and culture with specialized attention to a major or
distinctive feature of the African American literary tradition

--- Page 99 ---
130  College of Arts and Sciences
ENGL 384B   Studies in African American Literature, 1700-1900   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Intensive study of texts written by African American authors. The
course varies in topic and may concentrate on a selection of works by a
major African American writer or a particular African American literary
movement or theme, 1700-1900.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of African
American literature and culture with specialized attention to a major or
distinctive feature of the African American literary tradition, 1700-1900
ENGL 384C   Studies in African American Literature Since 1900   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Intensive study of texts written by African American authors. The
course varies in topic and may concentrate on a selection of works by a
major African American writer or a particular African American literary
movement or theme since 1900.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of African
American literature and culture with specialized attention to a major or
distinctive feature of the African American literary tradition since 1900
ENGL 390   Advanced Seminar   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior standing   
This course is required of all English majors. It offers an advanced,
intensive study of a period, author, genre, theme or critical issue in a
seminar setting. Topics are announced when the course is offered.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to recognize the ways that the subject matter of the
seminar relates to the production, representation, and interpretation of
artistic culture
ENGL 392   Advanced Creative Nonﬁction Workshop   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENGL 319 Writing Creative Nonﬁction   
This is a workshop in writing creative nonﬁction, furthering work done
in ENGL 319, Writing Creative Nonﬁction. Students will write in different
genres (e.g., memoir, travel writing, speculative essay, nature writing, the
spiritual essay), and will further their study in using both traditional and
experimental literary techniques in nonﬁction.
Outcomes:
Students will deepen their learning of traditional and innovative methods
of writing creative nonﬁction, applying them to their original creative
nonﬁctions and discussing and critiquing them in fellow students' work
ENGL 393   Teaching English to Adults: Internship   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore Standing or above   
This course offers training and practical experience in tutoring adults
in written and spoken English in a volunteer literacy program at Loyola
University. Students examine literacy issues and write a research paper.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of societal and
cultural factors affecting literacy, and will develop communication and
critical thinking skillsENGL 394   Internship   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior standing, six English courses   
This course provides on-the-job experience for majors in adapting their
writing and analytical skills to the needs of such ﬁelds as publishing,
editing, and public relations.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze their experience in terms of the skills
they brought to their jobs, what they learned about the ﬁelds they worked
in, and what new skills they developed as a result of their experiences
ENGL 395   Honors Tutorial   (3 Credit Hours)   
Content will vary each time the course is offered, but in general will entail
in-depth study of a literary genre or a major author or theme in literature.
Course equivalencies:  ENGL 395H / ENGL 395   
Outcomes:
Students will strengthen their capacity to analyze literature and to
discuss it, both orally and in writing, and will be able to demonstrate
understanding of the materials studied and of relevant theoretical and
critical perspectives
ENGL 397   Advanced Writing Workshop: Poetry   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENGL 317   
Students will read master poets as models and will write and revise
poems of their own, which will be discussed by the class in a workshop
format.
Outcomes:
Students will produce original poems, building upon skills honed
in ENGL 317; They will also be able to demonstrate a deepening
understanding of the critical skills necessary for analyzing and
discussing original poetry, theirs and their fellow students'
ENGL 398   Advanced Writing Workshop: Fiction   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENGL 318   
This course allows students to develop further their skills in writing and
analyzing original ﬁction begun in ENGL 318, in a supportive workshop
atmosphere.
Outcomes:
Students will produce original short stories, building upon skills honed
in ENGL 318; They will also be able to demonstrate a deepening
understanding of the critical skills necessary for analyzing and
discussing original ﬁction, theirs and their fellow students'
ENGL 399   Special Studies in Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
Subject matter of this course will be designated by a subscript whenever
the course is offered. Usually taken as an independent study.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the topic of the
course, and of the research and critical skills necessary to analyze and
discuss it; Usually students will work independently and produce a
research paper, under the direction of a faculty member
English as a Second Language (ESL)
ESL 20   Special Topics   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
This course may be customized to ﬁt the needs of student groups.
Specialized courses may focus on reading, writing, listening, speaking,
pronunciation and subject-speciﬁc vocabulary, along with U.S. culture
and history.
ESL 50   English for Speciﬁc Purposes   (0-6 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ESL Placement Test or Equivalent   
This course is designed to meet the needs of a specialized ESL group.
Some needs may be, but are not limited to listening, speaking, reading,
writing, and grammar.

--- Page 100 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 131
ESL 55   Graduate Preparation   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course addresses the needs of graduate students at the
Intermediate/Low Advanced level. Students will study grammatical and
syntactic structures necessary for clear communication in English for
academic purposes and will produce a variety of texts.
ESL 60   Low-Intermediate Reading & Vocabulary   (0-6 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on developing reading skills with an emphasis on
building vocabulary, literal comprehension, and fluency. Students will read
graded materials and appropriate ESL books from library resources.
ESL 61   Low-Intermediate Listening & Speaking   (0-6 Credit Hours)   
This course will provide further instruction in academic listening and
speaking for English language learners. Instruction focuses on basic
listening and speaking strategies for a variety of situations, including
listening for main ideas and details, and giving informal presentations.
Students will work on word and stress patterns.
ESL 62   Low-Intermediate Writing & Grammar   (0-6 Credit Hours)   
In this course students will expand control of English sentence and
paragraph structures. Students will develop mastery of simple present
and simple past verb tenses, subject verb agreement, singular and plural
nouns, and compound and complex sentence structures.
ESL 70   Intermediate Reading & Vocabulary   (0-6 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the development of academic reading skills, with
an emphasis on vocabulary development, literal comprehension, and
dictionary skills. Students will continue to develop critical thinking skills
to understand, analyze, discuss, and write responses to ideas expressed
in graded materials and appropriate ESL texts.
ESL 71   Intermediate Listening & Speaking   (0-6 Credit Hours)   
This course prepares English language learners for the academic
listening, note-taking, and discussion skills necessary to be successful
in college classes. Students develop academic note-taking skills by
listening to real academic lectures and develop discussion skills by
responding to lectures, agreeing/disagreeing, supporting opinions, and
connecting ideas.
ESL 72   Intermediate Writing & Grammar   (0-6 Credit Hours)   
In this course students will continue to develop their writing skills
through the writing process to create focused, fully developed and well-
organized essays. Essays will incorporate outside sources as well as
personal experience. Students will also learn to develop mastery of
adjective clauses, gerunds and inﬁnitives, and conditional statements.
ESL 80   High-Intermediate Reading and Vocabulary   (0-6 Credit Hours)   
High Intermediate Reading Skills exposes students to a variety of non-
ﬁction and ﬁction materials. Fiction materials include short stories and
simple novels. Non-Fiction materials will include news reports, scholarly
journals and other intermediate level non ﬁction texts. Attention to
reading comprehension including an awareness of main ideas, supporting
details, fact/opinion and author's purpose is emphasized. Timed readings
are included. Vocabulary development includes advanced
ESL 81   High-Intermediate Listening and Speaking   (0-6 Credit Hours)   
The Intermediate course focuses on listening and presentation skills that
are necessary for university students. Students build listening skills in
and out of class through excerpts from lectures, documentaries, radio
and TV programs. These skills include predicting and connecting ideas
in a lecture, note-taking strategies, listening for cause and effect, key
terms, and examples. Students build presentation skills by giving short
PowerPoint speeches.ESL 82   High-Intermediate Writing and Grammar   (0-6 Credit Hours)   
Students will build upon the skills learned in the prior courses and
recognize and produce effective ﬁve paragraph essays. Furthermore,
students will develop the skills to effectively and accurately write using
these rhetorical patterns, to name a few: compare/contrast and cause
and effect.
ESL 90   Advanced Reading and Vocabulary   (0-6 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ESL Placement Test   
Students will develop strategies for managing advanced reading
assignments. Students will also increase their vocabulary from reading in
general and specialized subject areas.
ESL 91   Advanced Listening and Speaking   (0-6 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ESL Placement Test   
No course description is available
ESL 92   Advanced Writing and Grammar   (0-6 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ESL Placement Test   
Students will advance their academic writing skills and communicate
more clearly and accurately with an in-depth study of advanced English
grammar. Students will effectively write using the rhetorical patterns
most commonly used in universities. Students will also learn how to
make citations of research sources and examine the cultural/ethical
issues related to plagiarism.
ESL 94   English Pronunciation   (0-6 Credit Hours)   
Students will be able to speak clearly and be understood by others.
Students will learn about and practice phonemic awareness and
accuracy, stress patterns, intonation, and rhythm with extensive practice.
Students will also be able to identify and improve their individual
pronunciation issues.
ESL 95   TOEFL Preparation   (2-4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ESL Placement Test   
Students will be able to sharpen their test-taking skills and i mprove your
TOEFL score. Students will become familiar with TOEFLLiBT and learn
strategies for achieving the score they need.
ESL 96   Graduate Preparation   (1.5-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ESL Placement Test   
Designed as a support for current non-native graduate students, this
course focuses on reﬁning the language components - listening,
speaking, reading and writing - for success in one's current graduate
classes at Loyola. Some of the objectives are doing research, reading
and responding to journal articles; editing one's writing for content,
organization, grammar, and creating effective presentations and using
PowerPoint. NOTE: only open to Graduate students.
ESL 98   American English Pronunciation   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course assists students in improving phonemic accuracy, stress
patterns, intonation, and rhythm. Students will develop class participation
and group discussion skills as well as the fundamentals of public
speaking. Students are required to practice with pronunciation software
in the language resource center.
ESL 101   Graduate Reading and Critical Thinking   (0-6 Credit Hours)   
This course is intended for current or future graduate level international
students and is designed to improve their overall comprehension of
college/graduate level texts and critical thinking skills
ESL 102   Graduate Research and Writing   (0-6 Credit Hours)   
This course is intended for current or future graduate level international
students and is designed to improve their academic writing skills and
ability to synthesize and critique information from outside sources.

--- Page 101 ---
132  College of Arts and Sciences
ESL 105   Skill-Building for TOEFL/IELTS   (2-4 Credit Hours)   
This course is for students with intermediate level language skills. This
course will strengthen students' language skills while also familiarizing
students with the content, questions, and tasks on the TOEFL iBT and
IELTS exams.
European Studies (EURO)
EURO 101   Introduction to European Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course serves as an introduction to the interdisciplinary ﬁeld of
European studies. It provides an overview of the major disciplines
represented in the program, introduces the main approaches covered
in the program, and discusses some of the most important topics
involving European states, regions, and the European Union. Restricted to
European Studies minors.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain a basic understanding of how different disciplines
contribute to the study of Europe at the state, sub-state and supra-state
levels
EURO 301   European Studies Capstone   (3 Credit Hours)   
This capstone class is intended to provide seniors a chance to reflect
on what they have learned as European Studies minors by focusing on a
particular theme. The class takes an interdisciplinary and cross-national
approach. Students develop a major research project. Restricted to
Juniors and Seniors minoring in European Studies.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Through this course students will gain an understanding of the ways in
which various ﬁelds and their approaches to European Studies can help
answer speciﬁc important questions about the region
Experiential Learning Course (EXPL)
EXPL 290   Seminar in Community-Based Service and Leadership   (3
Credit Hours)   
This course is a seminar course focusing on community-based service
and leadership through service-learning, in which students will work 40
hours over the semester at a non-proﬁt organization.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will gain professional experience at an organization, while
reflecting on their service experience in the context of asset-based
community development, civic engagement, social justice, leadership in
the community, and service for the common good
EXPL 291   Introduction to Research   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a seminar course focused on an introduction to research
and community-based research. As an Engaged Learning course,
students will work with a community partner on a community-based
research project at a non-proﬁt, community-based organization, approved
by the Center for Engaged Learning, Teaching, and Scholarship (CELTS).
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will reflect on their research plan and community-based
research experience in the context of research as service for the common
goodEXPL 292   International Service Learning   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Must have 30 credits completed (15 credits if a transfer
student) and enroll through International Programs Ofﬁce   
This course is a seminar course focusing on community-based service
in an international setting. The focus of the course will be on cultural
and political practices from a community perspective through service-
learning, in which students will work 50-75 hours over the academic
period at international non-proﬁt organizations.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  X-UNIV292/INTS278   
Outcomes:
Students will gain professional experience in an international setting,
engaging in direct service with a different culture and community, while
reflecting on their service experiences in the context of cultural and
political community development, the impact of the current environment
on speciﬁc populations, contemporary issues, social justice and poverty,
and global citizenship
EXPL 390   Internship Seminar: Organizational Change and Community
Leadership   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a seminar course focusing on organizational leadership
and change through a 100 hour internship experience with a non-proﬁt
organization, government agency, or business organization, pre-approved
by the Center for Experiential Learning.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  CPST398/UNIV390   
Outcomes:
Students will gain professional experience at an organization
while reflecting on their work experience and applying theories of
organizational leadership, civic engagement, community development,
and leadership in the community
EXPL 391   Seminar in Undergraduate Research Methods   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This seminar course offers undergraduate students the experiential
opportunity to engage in research while building their foundation of
research methods. Students may be part of the Loyola Undergraduate
Research Opportunities Program (LUROP) through a funded fellowship,
or students may be working independently with a faculty mentor
(volunteering in a lab, working on a research team). All students must
have a research project with a faculty mentor identiﬁed prior to enrolling
in this course. As an experiential learning course, students will need to
be engaging in research with a faculty mentor concurrently to taking this
course. Students must work a minimum of 5 - 10 hours each week over
the semester on their research projects (10 - 15 hours per week over the
summer session). Students will reflect on research experience in the
context of understanding research paradigms, application of research
methodologies, understanding the implications of ethical research, and
preparing to present research professionally. This course will provide
students engaged in research with the opportunity to develop a formal
written research paper and poster, as if the students are preparing to
present their research in a professional setting, such as the LUROP
Symposium.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   

--- Page 102 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 133
EXPL 393   Seminar in Integrative Leadership   (3 Credit Hours)   
This is a seminar course for students leaders in approved co-curricular
programs (e.g., ABI leaders, student organization executive board,
Loyola4Chicago leaders, etc.). Students in this course will complete at
least 100 hours in a leadership experience in the context of in tegrative
leadership theory culminating in a portfolio to demonstrate holistic
leadership capacity.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
1) Develop understanding of leadership theories, reflection on actions,
and integrative leadership theories; 2) Enhance connection to the
institution through leadership experience, and academic and professional
learning and development; 3) Produce an integrative professional
portfolio
Fine Arts (FNAR)
FNAR 110   Foundations of Visual Art   (3 Credit Hours)   
Explores some of the fundamental principles, concepts, and historical
and contemporary contexts that constitute a contemporary art practice.
Provides experience across a range of modes of art making while
emphasizing the basic concepts that underlie visual expression. Studio
activity is augmented with research, discussion, and critique.
Outcomes:
Explore and express visual concepts; Develop creative competencies;
Utilize design elements to communicate themes and ideas; Expand
cognitive capacities; Comprehend historical and contemporary
approaches to visual art
FNAR 112   Two-Dimensional Design   (3 Credit Hours)   
An examination of the basic elements and organizational systems of
visual expression through the application of design principles and theory.
Course equivalencies:  FNAR112/ACFNA112   
Outcomes:
Students will be able manipulate various forms of media to produce
desired spatial effects, and understand how to control by- using such
design methods as scale, perspective, and composition - the viewer's
understanding of and reaction to visual information on a two-dimensional
surface
FNAR 113   Drawing I   (3 Credit Hours)   
An introduction to the basic elements of drawing including: line, value,
texture, volume, shape, proportion, perspective and visual composition.
A variety of drawing materials will be explored with an emphasis on
observation problems designed to build technical, perceptual, and
personal expressive interpretation of form through the drawing idiom.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of basic drawing
principles and vocabulary, through practice and articulation of both
formal and artistic ideas
FNAR 114   Painting I   (3 Credit Hours)   
An introduction to the basic elements of painting including: the
application of drawing, design, and color principles. A variety of materials
will be explored with an emphasis on oil painting. Observational problems
will be introduced to build technical, perceptual, and personal expressive
interpretation of form through the painting idiom.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of basic painting
principles and vocabulary, through practice and articulation of both
formal and artistic ideasFNAR 115   Foundations of Photography   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces photography as a form of visual art. Students
learn the technical concepts in order to develop their ability to express
ideas through photography. The course also emphasizes strengthening
visual literacy through lectures, discussions, and critiques. Requirements:
A fully adjustable digital camera (DSLR) and an external hard drive are
required.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
Course equivalencies:  FNAR115/ICVM115/IFMS115   
Outcomes:
Students will learn how to formulate and communicate ideas through
photography; The course focuses on building the students' visual literacy
and understanding of photography as a form of visual art
FNAR 116   Color Slide Photography   (3 Credit Hours)   
A non-darkroom, introductory course to the equipment, techniques and
aesthetics of creative photography that emphasizes camera controls,
principles of composition, concepts of color theory, the unique potential
of the projected image, and personal expression. An adjustable 35mm
camera is required.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding and application
of exposure, depth of ﬁeld, rendering motion, full frame composition,
sequential imagery, balance of ﬁlm and light source, and the functions of
color, all of which support the practice of creative photography
FNAR 118   Printmaking I   (3 Credit Hours)   
An exploration of the production of ﬁne art multiples as they are created
utilizing zinc and copper plates. Techniques of etching and engraving
aquatint and color printing as well as innovative processes are taught.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of the techniques needed to
produce images on metal plates and alternative surface; the intrinsic
qualities particular to expression in print media, recognize ﬁne prints,
speciﬁc techniques, and archival quality in historical examples, use
intaglio presses as a means of production and form evaluative judgments
about printed imagery
FNAR 119   Watercolor Techniques   (3 Credit Hours)   
An introduction to the basic elements of watercolor painting including:
the application of drawing, design, and color principles. A variety of
techniques and materials will be explored including, watercolor paints
and pencils, and brush and masking techniques. Observational problems
will be introduced to build technical, perceptual, and personal expressive
interpretation of form through the watercolor painting idiom.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of basic painting
principles and vocabulary, through practice and articulation of both
formal and artistic ideas
FNAR 120   Ceramics: Handbuilding   (3 Credit Hours)   
An exploration of various handbuilding techniques, surface design
techniques, and ﬁring ranges available to the contemporary ceramist.
Students are encouraged to pursue individual expression in the context of
a broad range of methods and creative concepts.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate the basics of successful
construction and glaze techniques; demonstrate creative strategies and
critical evaluation of the creative process; demonstrate an understanding
of both historical and contemporary approaches to the medium and the
role of the Ceramic artist in cultures past and present

--- Page 103 ---
134  College of Arts and Sciences
FNAR 121   Ceramics: Wheelthrowing   (3 Credit Hours)   
An introduction to the potters' wheel. Students learn basic throwing skills,
explore utilitarian design concepts, and learn to balance spontaneous
and practiced approaches to process. Emphasis is on the successful
integration of craft and personal expression.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Course equivalencies:  FNAR220/FNAR121   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate basic wheelthrowing and glaze
techniques; demonstrate creative strategies and critical evaluation of
the creative process; demonstrate an understanding of both historical
and contemporary approaches to the medium and the role of the Ceramic
artist in cultures past and present
FNAR 123   Metalwork and Jewelry I   (3 Credit Hours)   
The methods and processes of construction using nonferrous metals
applied to problems in design and function. Projects are designed to
familiarize the student with processes in metalwork and the proper use of
hand tools.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the fundamental
characteristics of metal; the ability to cut, shape and manipulate metals;
to express visual ideas in low and high relief; and to form judgments
about design on other than flat surfaces
FNAR 124   Sculpture Foundations   (3 Credit Hours)   
An introduction to three dimensional concepts and materials, and
associated techniques, in the process of articulating a personal artistic
statement. Students will be guided in the fabrication of various 3-D
constructions employing a wide range of building materials such as
plaster, wood, clay, foam board, paper, and metals.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to translate two-dimensional sketches and drawings
into expressive three dimensional forms; demonstrate basic sculpting
techniques and creative strategies; provide critical evaluation of the
creative process; and produce objects that are viewable in the round,
structurally stable with masses and appendages proportionate to one
another
FNAR 126   Metal Sculpture and Welding   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces students to the manipulation of iron, steel and
steel alloys. Students learn how to choose gauges of steel, cut with oxy-
acetylene torch and metal cutting wheels and blades and attach steel by
traditional welding techniques.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to operate a torch safely; cut and weld cleanly, ﬁle
grind and polish, forge, hammer and shape steel sheeting; demonstrate
the ability to convert two-dimensional ideas into cogent three-
dimensional forms; demonstrate understanding and control over
hazardous technical processes and demonstrate understanding of the
evaluative criteria of metal work
FNAR 129   Printmaking-Monotypes   (3 Credit Hours)   
An introduction into the various methods of producing one of a kind
highly individual prints from a vast array of printing surfaces. A variety
of materials will be explored through assignments which encourage an
understanding of technique, perceptual thinking and expression of form.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate a functional knowledge of a wide
variety of printing media, be able to utilize the basic tools particular to
each medium and produce a consistent series of formal images through
recognition of their expressive propertiesFNAR 132   Visual Communication I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course initiates a professional sequence whereby the student
receives an introduction to composition, typography, and historical
and contemporary concepts in visual communication. It introduces
students to page layout software (Adobe InDesign), its relationship to
other software packages, and the technical aspects of digital typography.
Outcomes:
Students gain an understanding of fundamental principles of visual
communication emphasizing typography, the development technical
skills in materials and techniques, and the ability to express formal and
creative ideas
FNAR 152   Drawing China   (3 Credit Hours)   
This is an introductory drawing course. There are no pre-requisites nor
prior experience need to succeed in this course. Beijing is our  laboratory
and the topic of all class drawings.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies   
Course equivalencies:  FNAR152/ASIA152   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to draw trees, buildings, automobiles, vegetables,
human beings in real life situations and in perspective
FNAR 160   The Crafts of China   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the artisan crafts of China historically and
technically. The course explores how and why the crafts appeared,
their historical trajectory and demonstrates how the crafts improved
technically. Ceramics, Bronze Castings and Wood works will serve as
prototypes. Students will undertake independent researches.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies   
Course equivalencies:  FNAR160/ASIA160   
Outcomes:
Students will identify how the crafts of woodwork, bronze casting and
ceramics evolved and how they are currently practiced in China; Students
will articulate an understanding of the function of craft in Chinese culture
as well compare and contrast it to the function craft in their own culture
FNAR 170   Three-Dimensional Design   (3 Credit Hours)   
An examination of the basic elements and organizational systems of
spatial expression through the application of design principles and
theory.
Course equivalencies:  FNAR212/FNAR170   
Outcomes:
Students will be able work with a variety of materials to produce three-
dimensional objects in space, and understand how to control the
viewer's reaction to those objects through the manipulation of solidity,
transparency, movement and time
FNAR 190   Color Theory   (3 Credit Hours)   
An examination of the nature of subtractive and additive color in its
physiological, psychological, aesthetic, cultural, and symbolic dimensions
through the application of past and current theory. Emphasis is placed on
color mixing, color relationships, and understanding color terminology.
Students develop proﬁciency using color in their work as well as gaining a
fundamental understanding of the basic visual, aesthetic, and t heoretical
considerations of color use in art & design.
FNAR 195   Topics in Fine Arts Pre-Collegiate   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course consists of special topics in speciﬁc Fine Arts areas, and is
offered for the Pre-Collegiate student.
Outcomes:
While the speciﬁc area of study varies, the expectation is that the student
will become familiar with the methods, materials and aesthetic properties
of that artistic approach, as well as the technical means to control the
expression

--- Page 104 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 135
FNAR 199   Art and Visual Culture   (3 Credit Hours)   
An introduction to the principles of art and their application to broader
visual culture, this course explores the complex nature of art through
an examination of its visual elements, techniques, functions, critical
methodologies, and related social issues. The course takes advantage of
Chicago's artistic resources.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
Course equivalencies:  FNAR199/ICVM199/IFMS199/ACFNA1   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of the elements of visual language;
means of visual expression in diverse cultures and eras; media and
techniques of art; artistic terminology; and critical approaches to the
study of visual culture and related social issues; Students will acquire the
skills to interpret art and visual culture in oral and written form
FNAR 200   Global Art History: Prehistoric to 600 CE   (3 Credit Hours)   
A comprehensive survey that introduces students to the art, architecture,
and material practices of global cultures from pre-history to the 7th
Century CE. This course will study the internal and cross-cultural
relationships between various art forms and the social, geo-political,
spiritual, economic, and political contexts in which selected a rtifacts and
monuments were made.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies, Italian
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  FNAR200/FNAR200R   
Outcomes:
Students will acquire skills to critically analyze formal expressions,
materials, functions, meanings, and makers of art and material culture in
relation to the historical contexts of ancient global societies
FNAR 200R   Art History: Pre-History to Renaissance in Rome   (3 Credit
Hours)   
A general survey which explores the development of art in Western
culture from pre-history through the sources of the Renaissance in the
fourteenth century with a focus on Rome and Italy.
Course equivalencies:  FNAR200/FNAR200R   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge of the ideas, formal
expressions, themes, techniques, and functions of art in relation to their
cultural, social, and historical contexts
FNAR 201   Global Art History: 600-1800CE   (3 Credit Hours)   
A general survey which explores the development of global art from 540
through 1800.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Italian Studies   
Course equivalencies:  ACFNA 105 / FNAR 201   
Outcomes:
Students will acquire skills to critically analyze formal expressions,
materials, functions, meanings, and makers of art and material culture in
relation to the historical contexts of early modern global societiesFNAR 202   Global Art History: Modern Art   (3 Credit Hours)   
A comprehensive survey of major artistic movements from a global
perspective, engaging key concepts, issues, and modes of production in
the modern world. It examines evolving ideas about the forms, content,
techniques, and functions of art from the late 18th century to today
considered within its socio-political and historical context.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Film & Digital Media Studies,
Global Studies, International Film & Media Studies   
Course equivalencies:  FNAR202/ICVM202/IFMS202   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of the key ideas, formal
expressions, themes, techniques, and functions of modern art in relation
to social-historical contexts and modern culture from a global perspective
FNAR 203   Chicago: Face of a City   (3 Credit Hours)   
An examination of the history of the Chicago School of Architecture along
with public sculpture and mural painting in Chicago, this course explores
the changing trends of American public art, artists' response to a public
audience, and issues of social responsibility. Participation in class ﬁeld
trips is required.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Urban Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to identify the major social concerns of the city as
well as the means by which visual arts can be integrated into its daily
life; They will be able to recognize the major artists and recent artistic
developments in their urban context
FNAR 207   Women, Art, and Society   (3 Credit Hours)   
An examination of women artists in Western culture and the societies
in which they worked from the medieval period to the present. Women's
artistic production, the styles and subject matter they embraced, and
their relation to artistic trends of their eras are explored within the context
of social attitudes about gender.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-FNAR207/WOST207/WSGS207   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge of women's contribution
to the visual arts, the factors that impacted their participation in the art
world, the underlying ways that gender constructions impact society, and
feminist theory and methodologies related to art
FNAR 213   Drawing II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FNAR 113   
An intermediate level drawing course designed to extend the
understanding of the visual elements of drawing introduced in FNAR 113.
This course includes an emphasis on color, and an exploration of a
broader range of drawing media. Observational and conceptual problems
are introduced.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of more advanced
drawing principles through expanded practice and articulation of both
formal and artistic ideas

--- Page 105 ---
136  College of Arts and Sciences
FNAR 214   Painting II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FNAR 114   
An intermediate level painting course designed to extend the
understanding of the application of drawing, design, and color principles
introduced in FNAR 114. This course will explore both oil and acrylic
painting and a variety of substrates. Emphasis on the human ﬁgure and
individualized conceptual problems will be introduced to build technical,
perceptual, and personal expressive interpretation of form through the
painting idiom.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of more advanced
painting principles through expanded practice and articulation of both
formal and artistic ideas
FNAR 216   Lighting Techniques for Photography and Video Art   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FNAR 115 or instructor permission   
This course examines techniques with both available and artiﬁcial
lights for works with photography and video. The students learn how
the use and control of lighting are essential in working with lens-based
media, whether it¿s on-location or in a studio environment. The concepts
covered in the class will be used to produce photographic and video
works.
Outcomes:
Students learn the equipment and techniques for effectively using
available and artiﬁcial lights
FNAR 218   Printmaking II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FNAR 118   
This course explores specialized work in intaglio, monotypes, and
mixed media. Emphasis is placed on the development and perfecting of
technique.
Outcomes:
Students demonstrate understanding of mixed-media printing; knowledge
of a wide range of printmaking media; apply drawing concepts to the
materials of printmaking; produce a consistent body of work in a complex
medium; recognize historical prototypes and articulate the differences
to others; and form judgments needed to adapt image making in a highly
technical area of expression
FNAR 219   Photography: Digital Imaging   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FNAR 115 - Foundations of Photography; A fully adjustable
digital camera (DSLR) and an external hard drive are required   
The course focuses on advanced editing techniques in Photoshop in
regards to color correction, color management, image compositing, and
image manipulation. Students will also learn the technical and aesthetic
concepts that are crucial components of the digital workflow to further
develop their visual languages as photographic artists.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-FNAR219/IFMS220   
Outcomes:
Students learn more complex editing in Photoshop, how to operate a
professional inkjet printer and the importance of paper selection; The
course examines possibilities with digital technologyFNAR 221   Ceramic Science   (3 Credit Hours)   
An examination of practical and experimental approaches to applied
chemistry as it relates to the ceramic arts. Students will learn the
theory behind clay and glaze formulation, test a wide array of materials
interactions; and learn practical skills in developing vitreous bodies, glass
forming substances, and metallic oxide pigments.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge of inorganic compounds
and their useful combinations in formulating ceramic bodies, gl azes, and
pigments; demonstrate knowledge of the effects of ﬁring temperature
and atmosphere on ceramic formulations; demonstrate knowledge of
safe lab practices in the ceramics studio
FNAR 222   Sculpture/Ceramics: Intermediate Ceramics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FNAR 124 and (FNAR 120 or FNAR 121); or instructor
permission   
This intermediate course expands the students' knowledge of materials,
techniques, and concepts relative to the production of three-dimensional
artwork. Students explore the dynamic interrelationship between art,
craft, and design, with particular emphasis on the role and function of
three-dimensional artworks historically and in contemporary practice.
The conceptual possibilities for reproduction and multiplication in
sculpture and ceramics is also highlighted. Visual and written research
is a component of the course, as are personal reflection and group
discussion. The course provides context for the key concepts explored.
Course equivalencies:  FNAR320/FNAR222   
Outcomes:
Students develop technical, aesthetic, and conceptual strategies in
the creation of three-dimensional artwork, and increased awareness of
cultural / historical perspectives of the medium
FNAR 223   Metalwork and Jewelry II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FNAR 123   
Advanced work in metalwork and jewelry including problems in the
techniques of lost wax casting and enameling
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate the ability to control materials with
the addition of stones, found objects and other materials; design and cast
works in the round; design a work and see it through from production to
completion, and demonstrate knowledge of a wide range of metalwork
techniques and their decorative and design potential
FNAR 232   Visual Communication II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FNAR 132 Visual Communication I   
A continued study of the visual and conceptual principles introduced in
FNAR 132 with an emphasis on advanced typographic principles and an
introduction to the history of graphic design.
Outcomes:
Students gain knowledge of graphic design history and advance in
their understanding of typography and imagery in the problem-solving
processes in graphic design, including the further development of
conceptual skills
FNAR 233   Digital Media Design   (3 Credit Hours)   
An exploration of image creation and design using Adobe Photoshop
and Adobe Illustrator. This industry standard software is introduced as a
vehicle for basic design concepts and as a tool for creative expression.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
Outcomes:
Students gain an understanding of software skills and design basics;
They develop the ability and techniques to manipulate software in the
production of compositions effectively combining image and typography

--- Page 106 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 137
FNAR 234   Digital Media: Vector   (3 Credit Hours)   
An exploration of vector illustration using Adobe Illustrator. This industry
standard software is introduced as a vehicle for basic design concepts
and as a tool for creative expression.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
Outcomes:
Students gain an understanding of software skills and design basics;
They develop the ability and techniques to manipulate software in the
production of artistic compositions effectively combining image and
typography
FNAR 235   Figure Studio   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FNAR 113 or FNAR 114 or permission of the instructor   
An advanced level studio course designed to introduce the human form
with an emphasis on the application of drawing and wet media. S keletal
anatomy and concepts of visualization and proportion will be explored.
Observational and conceptual problems will be introduced.. The course
may be taken twice for credit.
Course equivalencies:  X-FNAR235/THTR235   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the human
form and anatomy through expanded practice and articulation of both
formal and artistic ideas
FNAR 251   African-American Art   (3 Credit Hours)   
An introduction to the achievements of Americans of African descent
beginning with African roots through the Harlem Renaissance to the
contemporary work of such internationally recognized artists as Richard
Hunt and Martin Puryear. Content may vary according to the particular
focus of the instructor.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora   
Course equivalencies:  X-FNAR251/BWS 251   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge of the richness of
African-American visual arts as they developed within and outside the
purview of traditional art venues
FNAR 260   The Art of Bookbinding   (3 Credit Hours)   
An introduction to the basic methods of bookbinding exploring traditional
and one-of-a-kind artists books. Sewn, glued and free form structures will
form the basis for the study of image and text within the framework of a
personal approach to alternative surfaces.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to construct and manipulate a wide variety of media
using the grammar and language of the book form; Through selected
projects students will utilize compositional elements and descriptive to
communicate ideas and concepts in book form
FNAR 303   Visual Arts Pedagogy   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores the ideas of teaching and learning through the
visual arts and arts integration as they pertain to teaching artists.
Coursework includes lecture and discussion, readings, model teaching,
and teaching artist visits. Students will learn art pedagogy, classroom
management techniques, and to develop their ideas into a curricular
format.
Outcomes:
Students will recognize perspectives and theories around learning
through the visual arts, identify appropriate teaching content and
techniques, and design appropriate visual arts lessons, aligning content
and standardsFNAR 304   Paris in the Nineteenth Century   (3 Credit Hours)   
An examination of Nineteenth Century art in Paris as shaped by
contemporary changes in the physical, social and economic life of the
city.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge of nineteenth ce ntury art
and artists in the context of the emergence of a modern, industrial urban
complex
FNAR 305   American Art to 1945   (3 Credit Hours)   
An examination of American painting, sculpture, and architecture from
the colonial period to the period immediately following World War II.
Emphasis is placed on the development of speciﬁcally American art
forms as they evolved from their dependency upon European sources.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to recognize and demonstrate knowledge of major
artists and artistic movements from the earliest days of the Republic
when Europe served as a source of training and inspiration to the
beginnings of modern times when global developments shifted the focus
of artistic inspiration to New York
FNAR 306   Contemporary Art 1945-Present   (3 Credit Hours)   
An examination of recent developments in American and European art
beginning with the physical shift of the center of artistic authority from
Paris to New York during and immediately after World War II.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to recognize and demonstrate knowledge of major
artists and artistic movements from the mid-twentieth century to the
present day; They will also understand the major theoretical issues of the
period
FNAR 311   Advanced Studio   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FNAR 213 or FNAR 214 or equivalent   
The most advanced level studio course in painting and drawing and is
designed to aid the student in developing a body of creative work from
conception to production to presentation. This course is conducted as
an individual studio practicum between the instructor and student. The
course may be taken twice for credit.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate a strong understanding of their own creative
process through the development of a cohesive body of work
FNAR 312   Design III   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FNAR 170   
An application of two- and three-dimensional principles and
methodologies to advanced studio projects in ﬁne and applied areas.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to develop a series of multi-dimensional structures
that utilize planar and spatial techniques to communicate a body of
information and sensory experiences to others
FNAR 314   Painting III   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FNAR 114 and 214   
An advanced level painting course designed to extend the understanding
of the application of drawing, design, and color principles int roduced in
FNAR 114 and expanded in FNAR 214. This course will explore a range of
painting materials and substrates. Emphasis is placed on critique and the
development of conceptual problems to build technical, perceptual, and
personal expressive interpretation.
Outcomes:
Students will develop a body of work through expanded practice and
articulation of both formal and artistic ideas

--- Page 107 ---
138  College of Arts and Sciences
FNAR 315   Photography: Films and Cameras   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FNAR 219 or instructor permission   
This course will explore processes and materials related to ﬁlm-based
photography. The primary focus of this course will be shooting ﬁlms with
various types of ﬁlm cameras. Students will also explore integrating a
digital workflow to edit and print images captured on ﬁlm.
Outcomes:
Students will learn how to use ﬁlm cameras, scan ﬁlm, and incorporate
a digital workflow with the editing and printing of ﬁlm to produce
photographic projects
FNAR 318   Printmaking III   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FNAR 218   
A continued exploration of Printmaking I, II which enables the student to
enhance technical and conceptual skills in printmaking mediums.
Outcomes:
Through selected projects students will demonstrate knowledge of
contemporary trends in printmaking including new digital media and
photomechanical processes; They will acquire analysis skills and
functional critical knowledge of the grammar and language of prints
FNAR 320   Video Art   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FNAR 216 or instructor permission   
This is a course on Video Art and expanded lens-based media that
introduces students to time-based art and the language and history of
moving images. Students will explore the ways in which artists use video
in their artworks and the techniques foundational to the craft of creating
moving images.
Course equivalencies:  FNAR320/FNAR222   
Outcomes:
Students will learn technical skills, such as cinematography, video editing,
and audio recording; Students will develop their literacy of video media by
exploring artworks made by pioneering artists
FNAR 322   Sculpture & Ceramics: Advanced Studio   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FNAR 222 or permission of instructor   
An advanced studio course in which students focus on developing an
independent, compelling three-dimensional ﬁne arts practice through a
more focused approach to the application and synthesis of knowledge
and experiences in comparison to Intermediate Studio courses. Visual
and written research and ﬁeld trips are components of the course, as are
personal reflection and group discussion. Technical experiments and key
concepts are geared speciﬁcally to the students interests and artistic
goals.
Course equivalencies:  FNAR321/FNAR322   
Outcomes:
Select and apply appropriate materials and methods to resolve complex
visual and conceptual problems and meaningfully discuss key issues;
Create a portfolio of work built on independent investigation
FNAR 332   Visual Communication III   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FNAR 232 Visual Communication II   
This course includes the continued study of contemporary graphic
design practice and further work in design with emphasis on analytical
and creative approaches to problem solving across many types of
media. Students are exposed to current best practices for effective self-
promotion.
Outcomes:
Students gain an understanding of how contemporary design is used
to communicate; They begin to develop a sophisticated body of work,
advancing in their ability to critically evaluate visual communicationFNAR 333   Explorations in Typography   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FNAR 232   
Students explore both practical and experimental solutions utilizing
typography as a means of communication and language visualization;
investigating multifaceted modes of expression with emphasis placed
on the study and creation of meaning relative to audience, culture, and
history.
Outcomes:
Students develop a heightened awareness of the nuanced role that
typography plays as a delivery mechanism for narrative structures,
information, language visualization, and alternate forms of exp ression
FNAR 334   Motion Design   (3 Credit Hours)   
An exploration of time-based motion graphics. Industry standard
software is utilized as a vehicle for learning graphic animation concepts
and as a tool for creative expression.
Outcomes:
Students gain an understanding of software skills and design basics;
They develop the ability and techniques to manipulate software in
the production of motion graphics effectively combining image and
typography
FNAR 338   Medieval Art   (3 Credit Hours)   
An examination of the art and architecture of the Christian world from
250 to 1453 CE, including the Early Christian, Byzantine, Carolingian,
Romanesque, and Gothic periods as well as the influence of Islamic
culture.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, Medieval Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-FNAR338/MSTU380/ROST338   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of forms, ideas, themes,
techniques, and functions of medieval art and their relation to relevant
cultural, social, and historical contexts; They will acquire the skills to
critically analyze these relationships and to understand the scholarship
and issues related to medieval studies
FNAR 341   Renaissance Art - Painting   (3 Credit Hours)   
An examination of pictorial arts of the Renaissance in Northern and
Southern Europe within the context of the material culture and society of
the ﬁfteenth and sixteenth centuries. Content may vary according to the
particular focus of the instructor.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-FNAR341/ROST341   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of techniques, formats, themes,
forms, functions, and patronage of European painting and its relation to
society and culture and will acquire the skills to critically analyze these
relationships
FNAR 342   Art in Rome   (3 Credit Hours)   
A survey of Rome's artistic heritage, including architecture, mosaic,
painting, and sculpture from antiquity to the present day studied within
the context of Rome's changing roles in Western European history.
Classes are taught on site.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies, Italian
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-FNAR342/ROST342   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of Rome's cultural role in history
and of its artistic traditions and how they relate to their historical context

--- Page 108 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 139
FNAR 343   Baroque Art   (3 Credit Hours)   
An examination of art and architecture in Europe during the seventeenth
and eighteenth centuries with special concentration on the preeminence
of Rome. (Rome Center students are expected to visit and study certain
works of art in their original location).
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies, Italian
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-FNAR343/ROST343   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of forms, ideas, themes,
techniques, and functions of seventeenth and eighteenth-century
Western European art and their relation to relevant cultural, social
and historical contexts; They acquire skills to critically analyze these
relationships and to understand the scholarship and issues related to
Baroque studies
FNAR 344   Early Italian Renaissance Art   (3 Credit Hours)   
An examination of Italian art and architecture from the late thirteenth
to the late ﬁfteenth centuries with special emphasis on Florence, Siena,
and centers in northern Italy such as Padua and Mantua. (Rome Center
students visit and study certain works of art in their original location).
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies, Italian
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-FNAR344/ROST344   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of forms, ideas, themes,
techniques, and functions of early Italian Renaissance art and their
relation to relevant cultural, social, and historical contexts; They acquire
skills to critically analyze these relationships and to understand the
scholarship and issues related to Italian Renaissance art
FNAR 345   Italian High Renaissance and Mannerist Art   (3 Credit Hours)   
An examination of Italian painting, sculpture, and architecture from the
late ﬁfteenth through the sixteenth centuries, focusing on the art of
Florence, Rome, and Venice and including consideration of such artists
as Leonardo da Vinci, Michelangelo, Raphael, and Titian. (Rome Center
students visit and study works of art in their original location).
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies, Italian
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-FNAR345/ROST345   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of forms, ideas, themes,
techniques, and functions of Italian High Renaissance and Mannerist
art and their relation to relevant cultural, social, and historical contexts;
Students acquire skills to critically analyze these relationships and
to understand the scholarship and issues related to Italian High
Renaissance and Mannerist art
FNAR 349   Art and the Catholic Tradition   (3 Credit Hours)   
An examination of the integral role that the visual arts and architecture
have played in the Catholic faith since its early centuries.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the role of Catholic art and architecture within
its theological, social, and historical contexts through an examination of
both visual and related textual sourcesFNAR 351   Latin American Art I: Ancient to 19th Century   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course examines creative production in Latin America from its
Ancient empires to colonization, and independence in the 19th century.
Exploring archaic periods to imperial integration, we consider the legacy
of indigenous artistic production and mestizaje in the visual culture in the
region from the 16th through 19th century.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Latin American Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH344/FNAR351/INTS385/LASP   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate the ability to distinguish sculptural, pictorial,
and architectural styles of diverse cultures within the geographical and
temporal boundaries deﬁned, and historical processes that shaped its
production
FNAR 352   Islam and Visual Culture   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the visual forms of Islamic culture from the
7th century to the present. Students will be introduced to the major
monuments, artistic techniques, and regional styles, investigating visual
works within their historical context and in relation to intercultural
engagement.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Arabic Language and Culture, Global Studies,
Islamic World Studies, Arabic Language and Culture, Global Studies,
Islamic World Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-FNAR352/LASP358   
Outcomes:
Through study of major monuments, artistic techniques, regional style,
and intercultural engagement, students will recognize Islam and visual
culture as a global phenomenon entailing much more than religious
artifacts
FNAR 353   Latin American Art II: Modern to Contemporary   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course provides an expanded understanding of modernity and its
artistic partner, modernism, as well as the political, social and cultural
landscapes that informed and formed the art and architecture of Latin
America and its diasporic intersections, from the early twentieth century
to the present day.
Course equivalencies:  X-FNAR353/LASP359   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate the ability to distinguish pictorial, sculptural,
performative and architectural styles of diverse artists and identities
associated with Latin America, and the historical processes that shaped
its production
FNAR 355   Art of Africa   (3 Credit Hours)   
An examination of the traditional arts of West Africa and the Paciﬁc and
their role in the control and organization of tribal societies before the
introduction of European influences.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Global
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  ANTH345/BWS/INTS/FNAR355   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of the unique role of the
visual arts and music in the transmission of traditional mores; They will
demonstrate understanding of the social and artistic distinctions found
in a comparison of highly centralized societies with loosely deﬁned tribal
organization and how this is reflected in different cultural standards

--- Page 109 ---
140  College of Arts and Sciences
FNAR 356   India, Women and Visual Culture   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines images of women and the work of women artists
in India, engaging with broader topics in feminist and postcolonial theory,
including indigenous responses to colonialism, contemporary critiques
of the female form in Indian art, and the agency of women artists in the
twentieth and twenty-ﬁrst centuries.
Course equivalencies:  X-FNAR356/ASIA356/INTS374   
Outcomes:
Student will become familiar with the work of Indian women artists and
how images of Indian women have been understood and interpreted
throughout the 20th and 21st centuries
FNAR 357   South Asian Visual Culture   (3 Credit Hours)   
An examination of the cultural background and major art forms of South
Asia from the Indus River Valley settlements to the Present. As well as
sculpture, architecture and painting, popular visual art forms will be
examined.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-FNAR357/ASIA357/INTS396   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of the religious, cultural and
political forces shaping South Asian art; They will be able to distinguish
the regional styles and identify the major monuments of South Asia;
Students will understand the role of the visual arts in South Asian society
FNAR 358   Chinese Art and Culture   (3 Credit Hours)   
An examination of the cultural background and major visual art forms of
China from prehistoric to early modern times.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-FNAR358/ASIA358/INTS321   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of the philosophical and religious
sources of the major traditional art forms of China; They will recognize
the degree to which Confucian morality controlled the social and
intellectual principles by which society was governed and the arts
evaluated until the advent of Communism
FNAR 359   Japanese Art and Culture   (3 Credit Hours)   
An examination of the cultural background and major art forms of Japan
from earliest times until the twentieth century.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies, Japanese Language
and Culture   
Course equivalencies:  X-FNAR359/ASIA359/INTS329   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of the philosophical and religious
sources of the major art forms of Japan; They will recognize the dual
formative influences of indigenous traditions and those of foreign origin
in what becomes a uniquely Japanese adaptation and resolution of ideas
expressed effectively either verbally or visuallyFNAR 360   Picturing Women in Renaissance and Baroque Art   (3 Credit
Hours)   
An examination of issues related to women, art, and society in early
modern Europe (15th-17th centuries) through a study of women as
subject matter, viewers, producers, and patrons of art. A multi-disciplinary
approach is employed to explore how gender as a social, political, and
psychological category is reflected in and reinforced by visual culture.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-FNAR360/WOST360/WSGS360   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of the ways gender is constructed
in society, the origins and effects of gender attitudes, the interrelation
between gender and visual culture, and the ways women have claimed
agency; Students will critically analyze visual culture and gender
attitudes and demonstrate knowledge of feminist theory and scholarly
methods
FNAR 364   History of Graphic Design   (3 Credit Hours)   
A survey of the evolution of graphic communication from prehistory
through postmodern design and the digital revolution.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of the ideas, formal expressions,
themes, techniques, and functions of graphic communication in relation
to its social-historical context
FNAR 365   History of Photography   (3 Credit Hours)   
A chronological and thematic survey of the history of photography,
especially in Europe and America. Fine art and utilitarian applications of
the medium are considered by examining photographers who represent
the origin and development of major pictorial forms; the interaction
between technology and imagery; and the relationships between
photography and historical, social and cultural events.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-FNAR365/ICVM365/IFMS365   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the most
important pictorial forms, themes, practitioners, processes and context
of photography as a ﬁne and applied art from the beginning of the
nineteenth century to the present
FNAR 367   History of Architecture   (3 Credit Hours)   
An examination of the history of the built environment from the earliest
known forms to contemporary examples, in terms of architectural theory,
structural realities and socio-cultural usages.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the ma ny ways
architecture serves the human race, and be able to constructively analyze
the speciﬁc functions buildings serve within their particular cultural
temporal milieu
FNAR 367R   Architecture in Rome   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores architectural drawing as a way to incorporate
hands-on experience in students` study of architecture in Rome. Students
will develop drawing skills by conceptualizing architectural ideas in
relationship to Rome's buildings and sites.
Outcomes:
Upon successful completion of this course, students will be able
to develop basic architectural drawing skills, to understand graphic
standards and drawing conventions of the architectural design as well as
to analyze and appreciate Rome's architectural buildings and spaces

--- Page 110 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 141
FNAR 368   Fine Arts Internship   (1-4 Credit Hours)   
A comprehensive introduction to gallery and/or studio operations in
the Fine Arts Division. Internships will provide opportunities in various
aspects of administration, scholarship, teaching, and sustaining
standards in studio and/or gallery performance. Gallery internships
available at Loyola's Fine Arts Galleries. External internships upon
approval. Teaching/studio assistantship based on class availability.
Departmental consent required for enrollment.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will develop practical experience for the professional world and
be able to demonstrate knowledge of gallery/museum administration,
scholarship, exhibition production, and/or class preparation and teaching
FNAR 380   Internship I   (1-4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FNAR 332 Visual Communication III; Fine Arts Majors only   
Visual Communication majors complete an internship providing an
opportunity to use their visual and technical skills in a professional
setting.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students work with others to develop and complete projects on
a predetermined schedule; they get the opportunity to learn from
professionals in the ﬁeld; they ﬁnd out how well they are doing as judged
by the world outside the classroom
FNAR 381   Internship II   (1-4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Permission of chairperson   
Visual Communication majors complete an internship providing an
opportunity to use their visual and technical skills in a professional
setting.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students work with others to develop and complete projects on
a predetermined schedule; they get the opportunity to learn from
professionals in the ﬁeld; they ﬁnd out how well they are doing as judged
by the world outside the classroom
FNAR 382   Visual Communication IV   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FNAR 332 Visual Communication III and Senior standing or
instructor permission   
This course perfects the practice and tools of visual communication
through a series of advanced projects with the aim of creating a robust
and well-balanced body of work.
Outcomes:
Students are prepared to use their skills in research, analysis, and the
design processes that lead to creative conceptualization to create
appropriate design decisions and reﬁned design solutions
FNAR 383   Interactive Design   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FNAR 233 Digital Media Design   
This course introduces aspects of interaction and web design including
theory, common best practices, usability, information architecture,
graphic design in the interactive context, prototyping, and the technical
parameters of an interactive environment. Industry standard software will
be used. Strong emphasis will be placed on design principles, information
hierarchy, and typography.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-FNAR383/ICVM383/IFMS383   
Outcomes:
Experience in the research, planning, design, and prototyping of
interactive communicationFNAR 388   Critical Approaches to Visual Art   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FNAR 202: Modern Art, C- or higher   
This course examines key theoretical issues in contemporary
art. Students will apply these concepts to develop strategies for
creative output. The course will feature readings, discussions, written
assignments, and projects to explore interdisciplinary approaches that
emphasize idea as the primary means of visual production.
Outcomes:
Gain an understanding of key theoretical concepts in contemporary art;
Apply theoretical concepts for the production of artworks; Develop a
contemporary art practice in preparation for FNAR 398 Capstone
FNAR 390   Art History: Methods and Research   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Restricted to Art History Majors and Minors   
An examination of theoretical, critical and methodological issues as
related to Modern and Post-Modern art.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-FNAR390/IFMS390   
Outcomes:
Students will learn to recognize and apply a range of appropriate
theoretical approaches and scholarly methods
FNAR 391   Senior Thesis in Art History   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students develop an in-depth scholarly research paper while engaging
new theoretical frames or topics to expand upon the writing and research
of a paper of their choice from a previous art history class. In addition,
they will share their research in a ﬁnal, formal oral presentation.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students produce a polished in-depth research paper; They demonstrate
the ability to synthesize and apply ideas from scholarly sources;
formulate, develop, and articulate in verbal and written form relevant
issues
FNAR 392   Senior Thesis II: FNAR Art History Capstone   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FNAR 391 or instructor permission; Art History majors only;
Senior standing   
The second half of the capstone experience for art history majors. In
Senior Thesis II, students write an in-depth scholarly research paper.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students produce a polished in-depth research paper; They demonstrate
the ability to synthesize and apply ideas from scholarly sources;
formulate, develop, and defend a thesis; and critically analyze and
articulate in verbal and written form the issues and ideas relevant to their
topic
FNAR 393   Topics in Studio Art   (3 Credit Hours)   
Special topics in speciﬁc areas of study in studio art.
Outcomes:
Students will master topics in areas of studio art not offered elsewhere in
the curriculum
FNAR 394   Topics in Art History   (1-4 Credit Hours)   
Special topics in speciﬁc areas of study in art history.
Outcomes:
Students will master topics in areas of art history not offered elsewhere
in the curriculum

--- Page 111 ---
142  College of Arts and Sciences
FNAR 398   Fine Arts Capstone   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of the most advanced course in the student's
FNAR concentration   
The course serves as the culmination of each student's experience as a
Fine Art major. Students will demonstrate the ability to produce work that
exempliﬁed the application and synthesis of the knowledge gained from
the courses and experiences.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate the ability to produce art work suitable for
exhibit
FNAR 399   Independent Study   (1-4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  written permission of instructor and chairperson   
Advanced student are afforded the opportunity to work on an in-depth
project in the medium of his/her choice in a tutorial setting. The course is
developed in consultation with a faculty advisor and is stated formally in
a written contract. of deﬁnition, goals, procedures and outcomes.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate the ability to produce a signiﬁcant
body of original artwork on a focused theme
Forensic Science (FRSC)
FRSC 340   Introduction to Forensic Science   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CJC 101; Forensic Science Majors Only   
This course provides an overview of the basic principles and uses
of forensic science within the ﬁeld of criminal justice. The course is
designed for forensic science majors emphasizing the scientiﬁc aspects
in the forensic sciences.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to identify the uses and limitations of the existing
forensic science techniques used within the ﬁeld of criminal justice
FRSC 341   Forensic Ethics and Professional Practice   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FRSC 340; Forensic Science Majors only   
This course develops a basic scientiﬁc literacy, understanding of
the scientiﬁc method of inquiry, understanding ethical thought and
application of ethics to the ﬁeld and professional practice of forensic
science.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding and application of ethics
in the forensic sciences; Students will be able to articulate the role
and challenges of ethical issues facing forensic science today, the
applicability of ethics in the profession and their individual careers
FRSC 342   Expert Witness Testimony and Court Room Demeanor   (3
Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FRSC 341; Forensic Science Majors Only   
The goal for this course is to give you the information necessary to
be an effective and ethical witness. This should help throughout your
career and help make testimony not so much something to be feared as
something which represents the culmination of your work in a case.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Students should develop courtroom and expert witness testimony
literacy, understanding of the dynamics during court and appreciate the
impact to the judicial systemFRSC 343   Physical Organic Chemistry for Forensic Science   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHYS 112; MATH 132; CHEM 222 or (CHEM 224 and
CHEM 226) or (CHEM 240, CHEM 241, CHEM 260, and CHEM 272); and
Forensic Science majors   
An introduction to the foundational principles of physical and physical
organic chemistry. The course focuses on the application of these
principles to solving problems in forensic science. The numerous aspects
of forensic science require a working knowledge of physical chemistry,
the foundational principles, and the interrelation of cause and effect.
Outcomes:
Understand the basic concepts of physical and physical organic
chemistry; Acquire and interpret data and form conclusions; and Use
critical thinking skills in problem solving
FRSC 350   Pattern Evidence I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FRSC 341; Forensic Science Majors only   
This course introduces the basic principles and methods of forensic
pattern evidence: latent ﬁngerprints, ﬁrearms and tool marks, and
question documents.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Course equivalencies:  X-CRMJ382/FRSC382   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the three (3) forensic
pattern evidence areas; Students will develop techniques, work on non-
probative cases, and written formal reports of ﬁndings
FRSC 350L   Pattern Evidence Lab I   (1 Credit Hour)   
Co-requisites:  FRSC 350; Forensic Science Majors only   
This course introduces the basic laboratory methods of forensic
pattern evidence: latent prints, ﬁrearms and toolmarks, and questioned
documents. Prerequisite or
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate a basic competency through development of
various techniques; Students will work non-probative cases, along with
written formal reports of their ﬁndings
FRSC 360   Forensic Drug Chemistry I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (CHEM 212, CHEM 214, CHEM 224, and CHEM 226) or
(CHEM 241, CHEM 272, and CHEM 280); FRSC 342; and Forensic Science
majors   
This course provides an introduction to the basic principles of forensic
drug analysis. The use of microscopic, chemical, and chromatographic
techniques to gather data, interpret results and form conclusions are
developed. Recognizing the strengths and weaknesses in the techniques
used and the correct interpretation of results is stressed.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Course equivalencies:  CHEM 316/FRSC 360   
Outcomes:
The techniques, skills, advances and limitations of the modern forensic
laboratory discussed; The students will be able to summarize basic
concepts of forensic drug analysis, testing, and formal reporting

--- Page 112 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 143
FRSC 360L   Forensic Drug Chemistry Laboratory I   (2 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (CHEM 212, CHEM 214, CHEM 224, and CHEM 226) or
(CHEM 241, CHEM 272, and CHEM 280); FRSC 342 and Forensic Science
majors   
Co-requisites:  FRSC 360   
This course provides both basic and advanced foundations to the
principles of forensic drug analysis. The use of basic and advanced
analytical techniques to gather data, interpret results and form
conclusions are developed. Additionally, national forensic laboratory
operational standards and requirements are incorporated.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Course equivalencies:  CHEM 316L/FRSC 360L   
Outcomes:
The techniques, skills, advances and limitations of the modern forensic
laboratory will be discussed; The students will be able to demonstrate
basic/advanced concepts of forensic drug analysis, testing, and formal
reporting
FRSC 361   Forensic Toxicology I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FRSC 360/360L; Co-requisite FRSC 361L; Forensic Science
Majors Only   
This course stresses the practical and theoretical aspects to forensic
toxicology, the study of drugs and their implications in a forensic
setting when toxicity sets in. The analysis and description of drugs are
introduced. Case studies are reviewed where drug use may become a
forensic matter.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Course equivalencies:  CHEM 315/FRSC 361   
Outcomes:
Students should develop basic scientiﬁc literacy, understanding of
the scientiﬁc method of inquiry, understanding ethical thought and
application of ethics to the ﬁeld of forensic toxicology
FRSC 361L   Forensic Toxicology Laboratory I   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  FRSC 360/360L; Corequisite: FRSC 361; Forensic Science
Majors Only   
This course stresses the practical and theoretical aspects to forensic
toxicology, the study of drugs and their implications in a forensic
setting when toxicity sets in. The analysis and description of drugs are
introduced. Case studies are reviewed where drug use may become a
forensic matter.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
The techniques, skills, advances and limitations of the modern forensic
laboratory discussed; The students will be able to summarize basic
concepts of forensic drug analysis, testing, and formal reporting
FRSC 370   Forensic Biology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FRSC 341, BIOL 102 and 112; Corequisite: FRSC 370L;
Forensic Science Majors Only   
This course stresses the practical and theoretical aspects to forensic
biology. Forensic biology includes the examination, identiﬁcation, and
characterization of biological materials found on various types of
evidence.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Students should develop basic scientiﬁc literacy, understanding of
the scientiﬁc method of inquiry, understanding ethical thought and
application of ethics to the ﬁeld of forensic biologyFRSC 370L   Forensic Biology Laboratory   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  FRSC 341, BIOL 102 and 112; Corequisite: FRSC 370;
Forensic Science Majors Only   
This course stresses the practical and theoretical aspects to forensic
biology. Forensic biology includes the examination, identiﬁcation, and
characterization of biological materials found on various types of
evidence.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Students should develop basic scientiﬁc literacy, understanding of
the scientiﬁc method of inquiry, understanding ethical thought and
application of ethics to the ﬁeld of forensic biology
FRSC 371   Forensic Molecular Biology Lecture and Laboratory   (5 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 282, BIOL 283, FRSC 342, FRSC 370, FRSC 370L;
Forensic Science Majors only - Biology/DNA Option   
This course prepares students to work in forensic DNA analysis. The
lectures cover the basic aspects of DNA structure and function while
the laboratory gives students experience with the techniques and
instruments used in forensic DNA analysis.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Students will have a strong theoretical understanding of STR marker
origin, population biology, and legal uses, and will be able to isolate and
process DNA for STR scoring
FRSC 390   Forensic Science Internship   (3-4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FRSC 342; Forensic Science Majors Only   
The purpose of this course is to enhance the student's development and
learning through observational and participatory experience in forensic
focused criminal justice agencies.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  X-FRSC 390/ANTH 396A   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to contribute in a meaningful way to the operation
of a speciﬁc forensic focused criminal justice agency and be able to
identify and describe the link between their ﬁeld experience and prior
courses
FRSC 392   Forensic Science Seminar   (1 Credit Hour)   
A weekly seminar course with presentations, generally given by outside
speakers, covering topics in chemistry usually not encountered in the
classroom. Forensic Science Majors Only.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate their understanding by writing a one page
summary of each presentation
FRSC 394   Forensic Science Research   (1-4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Prior consultation with the instructor and a completed
agreement form; Agreement forms for this directed study course are
obtained from the program ofﬁce, and the completed form (signed by
the student, instructor, and program director) must be deposited in the
program ofﬁce before enrollment   
This course gives undergraduate students an opportunity to participate in
research in a selected area. Forensic Science Majors Only.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will accomplish the research task deﬁned in the contractual
arrangement between the student and the instructor

--- Page 113 ---
144  College of Arts and Sciences
FRSC 395   Special Topics in the Forensic Science   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FRSC 341; Forensic Science Majors Only   
Special topics courses provide students with an opportunity to examine
various forensic science topics not normally offered as part of the
Program's regular curriculum.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to gain an understanding of new issues co nfronting
the forensic sciences, or an advanced understanding of traditional
subjects covered in basic courses
French (FREN)
FREN 101   Elementary French I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  No previous knowledge of French is expected; Please
go to http://www.luc.edu/modernlang/exam.shtml for placement test
instructions, especially if you took any French courses in high school or
college   
Taught in French. Instructs basic communicative French, the people
and cultures where it is spoken, using formal and informal registers, and
speaking in present and future time. Students will listen and respond,
read and write, ask and answer simple questions in basic functional
French. Content: personal topics, everyday living.
Outcomes:
Student will successfully interpret and express needs pertaining to home,
work, college, leisure, and dining; Achievement level desired: Novice
Low, American Council on the Teaching of Foreign Languages (ACTFL*)
standards
FREN 102   Elementary French II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FREN 101 or one semester college French with C- or better,
or placement test score; Please go to Modern Languages home page for
placement test instructions; You must take the placement test if you took
any French courses in high school   
Taught in French. Continuation of basic French inter-communication
skills both producing French (speaking and writing), and interpreting
French (listening and reading.) The aim is to comprehend and contribute
to discussions about families, housing, sports, travel, and traditions in
French.
Outcomes:
Students will comprehend and speak in present, future, and past
narrative; get and give simple direction; share personal information;
Achievement level desired: ACTFL* Novice Low to Mid
FREN 103   Intermediate French I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FREN 102, or equivalent French at another college, with C-
or better, or placement test score; Exam required for placement on the
basis of high-school work: please go to Modern Languages home page
for placement test instructions   
Taught in French. Course continues to work on focus on pronunciation,
grammar. and developing conversational and writing fluency. Students
will read excerpts of French and francophone media or literature. Topics
include the environment and the many francophone cultures and tasks
include narrating in more complex past, future and hypothetical contexts.
Outcomes:
Students become more fluent and precise in expressing opinions,
asking and answering more probing and data-driven questions, on topic;
Achievement level desired ACTFL* Novice Mid to HighFREN 104   Intermediate French II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FREN 103, or equivalent French at another college, with C-
or better, or placement test score; Placement test on the basis of high-
school work required: please go to Modern languages home page for
placement test instructions   
Taught in French. Students will comprehend and produce French in more
complex contexts (literary and cultural) while reviewing intermediate
grammar structures to improve fluency and accuracy. Students present
and debate cultural, historical or current events topics; practice
expressing emotion, opinion, judgment, necessity, hypotheticals, and
regret.
Outcomes:
Students will skillfully interpret and write about literature excerpts or
French and francophone media; They will summarize, narrate, and offer
opinions; Achievement level desired ACTFL* Novice High to Intermediate
Low
FREN 250   French Composition and Conversation I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FREN 104, or college transfer equivalent, with C- or better,
or placement test score; Placement test based on high-school work is
required: please go to Modern Languages home page for placement test
instructions   
Taught entirely in French. Students develop advanced interpretive and
presentation skills, detecting sequencing, time frames and chronology in
texts, whether heard or viewed. Format is discussion, presentation, role
plays, several compositions written in a process.
Outcomes:
Students will share points of view verbally and in writing on
contemporary topics discovered in current media of French and
francophone cultures; Achieved level desired ACTFL* Intermediate Low to
Mid
FREN 251   French Composition and Conversation II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FREN 104, or college transfer equivalent, with C- or better
or placement test score; Placement test based on high-school work is
required: please go to Modern Languages home page for placement test
instructions   
Taught entirely in French. Via classic, French New Wave, francophone
to contemporary French-speaking ﬁlm students discover and compare
cultural differences, discuss global or local concerns, spanning the
disciplines. Writing in a process leads to more sophisticated writing
skills.
Outcomes:
Students become ever-precise and effective in communicating facts,
opinions, and concerns about French-speaking communities in
relationship to their own; Achieved level desired ACTFL* Intermediate Low
to Mid
FREN 270   Main Currents of French Literature & Culture I   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Pass FREN 250 and/or FREN 251 with C- or better or AP
credit for both 250 and 251, or with instructor's consent   
Survey of representative works of French literature from the Middle
Ages, the Renaissance, and the 17th and 18th centuries, examining the
formation of French cultural identity up through the Enlightenment and
the French Revolution.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will identify literary and cultural trends and ruptures across
these centuries, and explain them in some detail; Achievement level
desired: ACTFL* Intermediate Mid to High

--- Page 114 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 145
FREN 271   Main Currents of French Literature & Culture II   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Pass FREN 250 and/or FREN 251 with C or better, acquire
AP credit, or instructor's consent   
Survey of representative works of French literature in all genres, from
Romanticism through narrative realism and the modernist innovations of
Surrealism and existentialism in the 20th century.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will learn to identify these literary and cultural movements, and
explain in some detail their importance regarding French cultural identity;
Achievement level desired: ACTFL* Intermediate Mid to High
FREN 300   Tutorial for Credit   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FREN 270 and 271, with C or better, and instructor's
consent; If either 270 or 271 have been completed, the other may be
taken simultaneously with 3##   
Eligible students majoring in French may elect tutorial for credit; topic
chosen in consultation with faculty member.
Outcomes:
Student may choose their own topic to explore
FREN 301   Stylistics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FREN 270 and 271, with C or better, and instructor's
consent; If either 270 or 271 have been completed, the other may be
taken simultaneously with 3##   
This is advanced work in writing expository prose is based on intensive
study of advanced grammar and syntax with attention to peculiar
features of the French idiom. Students examine phonology and phonetics
with attention to French speech patterns and rhythms whilst enhancing
vocabulary development through the varieties of lexical references and
other dictionaries.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate a sophisticated, comprehensive
command of the complexities of written and spoken French; Achievement
level desired: ACTFL* Advanced Low
FREN 302   French for Professions   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FREN 270 and 271, with C or better, and instructor's
consent; If either 270 or 271 have been completed, the other may be
taken simultaneously with 3##   
Surviving in global careers--commerce, law, diplomacy, communications,
health--requires knowledge of business terminology and organism
structures. Students study current events, and present on francophone
companies, institutions, and NGO's. Résumés are perfected in French,
interview questions are drilled. The French government DAF (Diplôme du
français des affaires) exam is optional.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to navigate conﬁdently in French business and
diplomatic sectors; They will be prepared to interview in French; ACTFL*
achievement level desired: Intermediate High to Advanced LowFREN 308   Literary Criticism and Theory   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of French major course requirements and
instructor's consent   
Capstone for all French Majors, taken with other Modern Languages
& Literatures language majors. Students will study major schools and
themes in literary theory, both historical and contemporary. Rhetorical,
philosophical, historical, and cultural approaches to literature will be
studied in intimate conjunction with speciﬁc literary texts drawn from
several linguistic and cultural traditions.
Course equivalencies:  X-FREN/GERM/ITAL/SPAN308   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate critical knowledge and
understanding of major theoretical issues in the study of literature;
ACTFL* achievement level desired: Advanced Low to Mid
FREN 309   Francophone Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FREN 271 with C or better, and instructor's consent   
Students explore salient characteristics and themes of literature of
various genres written in French from Northern and Sub-Saharan Africa,
the Caribbean, and Québec. Topics include «la négritude», other reactions
to colonialism, `borrowed language', ideas and realities of liberation, post-
colonialism, the francophone woman, literature as political agent, and
satire.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Global
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-FREN309/BWS 309/INTS309   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate critical knowledge of historical
and political implications of these movements in contemporary global
society; ACTFL* achievement level desired: Intermediate Mid to Advanced
Low
FREN 311   French Modernity   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FREN 271 with C or better, and instructor's consent   
Students study major French authors of the twentieth and twenty-ﬁrst
centuries (Proust, Malraux, Sartre, Camus, and others), with attention
to the historical context of their works against the background of two
world wars and world-wide revolutionary movements, along with their
interaction with other artistic media.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate critical knowledge of majo r literary
works studied, and appreciate the major issues and their cultural
signiﬁcance; ACTFL* achievement level desired: Intermediate Mid to
Advanced Low
FREN 314   Survey of Medieval Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FREN 270 with a grade of C or better and permission of the
instructor   
This course will explore the literature and culture of the French Middle
Ages. Students will develop familiarity with literary genres and themes
including the chansons de geste, romances, and fabliaux, courtly love,
the international character of medieval French literature, voices and
representation of women, and the role of the Church.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Medieval Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-FREN314/MSTU372   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate critical knowledge of majo r literary
works studied, and appreciate the major issues and their cultural
signiﬁcance; ACTFL* achievement level desired: Intermediate Mid to
Advanced Low

--- Page 115 ---
146  College of Arts and Sciences
FREN 316   Renaissance France   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FREN 270 with C or better, and instructor's consent   
Students study major authors of the French Renaissance in their
historical and cultural contexts. Authors to be read will include Marot,
Labé, Scève, Rabelais, Du Bellay, Ronsard, and Montaigne, in conjunction
with study of Renaissance culture, the Reformation, the Wars of Religion,
and the other arts.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate critical knowledge of majo r literary
works studied, and appreciate the major issues and their cultural
signiﬁcance; ACTFL* achievement level desired: Intermediate Mid to
Advanced Low
FREN 317   Le Grand Siècle   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FREN 270 with C or better, and instructor's consent   
Students study major authors of the "long" 17th century in historical and
cultural contexts: Corneille, Cyrano, Descartes, Pascal, Mme de Lafayette,
Molière, Racine, Mme de Sévigné, the moralistes, among others. Focus
is on complex historical contexts of the period: baby kings, the Fronde,
religious conflict, the court and wars of Louis XIV.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate critical knowledge of majo r literary
works studied, and appreciate the major issues and their cultural
signiﬁcance; ACTFL* achievement level desired: Intermediate Mid to
Advanced Low
FREN 318   Enlightenment France   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FREN 270 with C or better, and instructor's consent   
Students study major French authors of the European Enlightenment.
Authors to be read will include Montesquieu, Voltaire, Rousseau, and
Diderot, among others, in the context of the development of (and
resistance to) the Enlightenment and the French Revolution.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate critical knowledge of majo r literary
works studied, and appreciate the major issues and their cultural
signiﬁcance; ACTFL* achievement level desired: Intermediate Mid to
Advanced Low
FREN 319   Romantic Century   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FREN 271 with C or better, and instructor's consent   
Students study the emergence of French Romanticism in the wake of
Revolutionary tumult (Lamartine, Vigny, and Hugo), and of the deeper and
darker reaction to bourgeois culture (Baudelaire, Flaubert, Rimbaud, and
others), marking relations with painting, sculpture, and music.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Appreciation of works from modern sensibilities are formulated, plus an
understanding of major issues and questions in these works and their
culture; ACTFL* achievement level desired: Intermediate Mid-Advanced
LowFREN 320   Survey of Literature of the Theatre   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  French 270 and 271, with C or better, and instructor's
consent; If either 270 or 271 have been completed, the other may be
taken simultaneously with 3##   
Students study theater in French from its medieval beginnings to the
present. Authors/works to be read may include medieval farce, Turnèbe,
Corneille, Molière, Racine, Diderot, Hugo, Rostand, Ionesco, Girardoux,
Beckett, and Césaire. Works will be studied in historical, cultural, critical,
and performing contexts.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate critical knowledge of major works of French
theater, and appreciate the major issues involved and their cultural
signiﬁcance; ACTFL* achievement level: Intermediate Mid to Advanced
Low
FREN 330   Survey-Poetry Thry & Practice   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FREN 270 and 271, with C or better, and instructor's
consent; If either 270 or 271 have been completed, the other may be
taken simultaneously with 3##   
Theory and Practice. Study of French narrative, dramatic, and lyric poetry,
with emphasis on the lyric.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate detailed critical knowledge and
comprehension of major literary works of the genre under study, as well
as a sophisticated critical appreciation of the major issues and questions
in these works and their culture
FREN 340   Survey of Prose: Fictional & Non-Fictional   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FREN 270 and/or FREN 271 with C or better, and
instructor's consent   
Students conduct detailed analysis of the outstanding stylistic  features
of France's great prose writers from the XVIth century to the present day.
Works may include writings by Rabelais, Montaigne, Pascal, Voltaire,
Flaubert, Balzac, Michelet, Proust, Camus, Malraux and Lévi-Strauss,
among others.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Appreciation of the rich variety of expressive skills and moral penetration
among France's great prose writers; ACTFL* achievement level desired:
Intermediate Mid to Advanced Low
FREN 369   Introduction to French for Reading Knowledge   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course will prepare students for reading and conducting research in
French. Fundamentals of grammar, syntax, and vocabulary essential to
reading competence will be covered, using materials drawn from a wide
range of ﬁelds. Completion of this course with a passing grade fulﬁlls
the Graduate School language competency requirement. This course is
restricted to graduate students.
Course equivalencies:  FREN369 / FREN109   

--- Page 116 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 147
FREN 390   French & Francophone Cultures & Civilizations   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FREN 271 with C or better, and instructor's consent   
This multidisciplinary study of French and Francophone cultures as
they have developed over the centuries will focus on the historical,
institutional, religious, and artistic manifestations that have contributed
to the formation of these identities. Special attention will be  given to their
revolutionary role in politics, painting, intellectual life, and cinema.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Global
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-FREN390/INTS390   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to identify and discuss the revolutionary roles
these cultures have had in politics, painting, intellectual life, and cinema;
ACTFL* achievement level desired: Intermediate Mid to Advanced Low
FREN 395   Internship   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of at least one 300-level French course and
instructor's consent   
Eligible students who have secured an internship related to the ﬁeld of
study may complete an internship for credit, with the approval of a faculty
member. Students complete reflective assignments and a ﬁnal project in
French, in consultation with the faculty member.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students gain professional experience while working with the French
language and Francophone cultures and applying skills they have learned
in the classroom
FREN 399   French Honors Tutorial   (3 Credit Hours)   
Eligible students majoring in French and with departmental honors may
elect tutorial for credit; topic chosen in consultation with faculty member.
Instructor's consent, restricted to students in French BA.
Course equivalencies:  FREN399H / FREN399   
Outcomes:
Students will explore a topic of their choice guided by a faculty member,
and will conduct a research project that will result in a ﬁnal paper
German (GERM)
GERM 101   Elementary German I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to German, designed for students with no
previous experience. Students develop communicative language skills
and acquire a fundamental knowledge of German-speaking cultures.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand simple sentences and short
narratives, respond to basic inquiries about themselves and others,
formulate basic questions, comprehend basic written texts, and write
simple German sentences
GERM 102   Elementary German II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  GERM 101   
Students will further develop communicative language skills and
knowledge of German-speaking cultures, and will ﬁnish learning all the
basic grammatical structures of the language.
Outcomes:
Students will have learned to express themselves through a wider range
of vocabulary and grammatical structures; They will be able to express
appropriate reactions to ordinary situations, read more complex texts,
and write sentences in short but cohesive paragraphsGERM 103   Intermediate German I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  GERM 102 Students will review and develop their
understanding of German grammar and vocabulary   
Students will read and discuss a variety of short readings, including short
stories and poetry.
Outcomes:
Students will have gained a wider range of oral expression, both lexical
and grammatical; They will be able to express more complex reactions,
read more complex narrative and literary texts, and write sentences in
longer paragraphs
GERM 104   Intermediate German II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  GERM 103 This course focuses on review and practice of
more complex grammatical elements   
Students will read texts of greater length and complexity, expand their
vocabulary, and increase their ability to communicate, both orally and in
writing.
Outcomes:
Students will have gained a wider range of oral expression, both lexical
and grammatical; They will be able to express more complex reactions,
read more complex narrative and literary texts, and write sentences in
cohesive paragraphs and short essays
GERM 250   Composition & Conversation I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  GERM 104   
This is a briskly paced class in which students engage in learning to
express themselves effectively, both orally and in writing, in German. All
work is carried out in German.
Interdisciplinary Option:  German Studies   
Outcomes:
Students gain conﬁdence in their ability to speak, read and write modern
German, and will gain a wider range of oral expression, both lexical and
grammatical
GERM 251   Composition & Conversation II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  GERM 250   
Students will learn to express themselves with increasing sophistication
in both oral and written German. Course materials are challenging and
may include a full length literary text.
Interdisciplinary Option:  German Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain further conﬁdence in their ability to speak, read and
write modern German, and will have gain a wider range of oral expression,
both lexical and grammatical
GERM 270   Modern German Literature and Culture I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  GERM 103 or equivalent   
Representative works in literature, philosophy, and ﬁne arts, with
sociopolitical backgrounds, 1830-1900.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand revolutionary post-romanticism,
realism, and naturalism in German literature and culture
GERM 271   Modern German Literature and Culture II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  GERM 271   
Representative works in literature, philosophy, and ﬁne arts, with
sociological backgrounds, 1900-present.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand neoromanticism, expressionism,
literature and fascism, socialist realism, and postwar culture in West and
East Germany

--- Page 117 ---
148  College of Arts and Sciences
GERM 300   Tutorial for Credit   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Permission of chairperson   
Eligible students minoring in German may elect tutorial for credit.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to focus on a speciﬁc aspect of German li terature or
culture
GERM 320   German-American History: Focus on Chicago   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This engaged-learning course traces the history of German-speaking
immigrants in the United States from its very beginnings in 1608, through
the 19th century heyday of German immigration, and to the present day.
Chicago will function as a case study. Students will interact with the
DANK Haus and the German community in Chicago.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will learn about the historical chronology of German-speaking
immigration to the United States, assimilation, and German-American
cultural contributions to the US, with a focus on Chicago; Students will
interact with the DANK Haus and the German community in Chicago
GERM 369   German Reading Knowledge   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides graduate students in the humanities, arts and social
sciences with the fundamentals of German grammar for the purposes of
reading and translating academic German. Students will work through
German grammar explanations, vocabulary, strategies for negotiating
meaning, and translation exercises.
Course equivalencies:  GERM369 / GERM109   
GERM 370   German Cinema   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course provides an overview of German ﬁlm from its beginnings until
the present time. Movies will be screened and discussed chronologically
from the various eras of German ﬁlm: Silent Movies, Weimar Sound
Movies, Film in the Third Reich, Post-War Films, New German Cinema and
Movies of Uniﬁed Germany. Taught in English.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Film & Digital Media Studies,
German Studies, Global Studies, International Film & Media Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-GERM370/ICVM370/IFMS370   
German Studies (GRMS)
GRMS 300   German Studies Minor Capstone   (1 Credit Hour)   
In an independent study format, students write a 10-15 page paper
that synthesizes the knowledge gained in their coursework into an
interdisciplinary project, combining that knowledge with the student's
other academic interests. Alternatively, students may secure a supervised
internship at a German-related institution or organization that also
lines up with their interests Students must be near completion of
most requirements for German Studies Minor in order to be eligible for
enrollment.
Interdisciplinary Option:  German Studies   
Outcomes:
Interdisciplinary synthesis of coursework into a paper, or outcomes based
on a speciﬁc internship, including a reflection componentGlobal Studies (GLST)
GLST 101   Introduction to Global Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course serves as an introduction to the interdisciplinary ﬁeld
of global studies. It provides an overview of the major disciplines
represented in the program, introduces the main regions covered in the
program, and discusses important global issues.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Asian
Studies, European Studies, Global Studies, Islamic World Studies, Latin
American Studies   
Outcomes:
By analyzing various topics in global studies, students will gain an
understanding of the different regions of the world and the ways that
different disciplines contribute to this interdisciplinary ﬁeld
GLST 301   Capstone in Global Studies: Directed Readings   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Course requires permission of instructor; GLST will enroll
approved students directly (no self-enrollment or non-GLST advisors);
Course is open only to junior and senior majors and minors   
This course number may be used only exceptionally for a course of study
that a student contracts with a faculty mentor of their choosing and that
is not offered otherwise at Loyola. The contracted course must function
as a way for students to draw together their undergraduate studies in a
"capstone" fashion and in a way that is relevant to the concerns of the
Global Studies Program. Students must arrange this course of study
with their chosen faculty mentor. The faculty mentor should send the
syllabus to the director of global studies at least one month before the
start of the term in which the student plans to undertake their course of
study. Students will complete a very substantial research project or paper
of approximately 20,000 to 25,000 words (about 40-50 double-spaced
pages) that they work on over the course of the entire semester with their
faculty mentor.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will improve their research and writing skills and will acquire an
in-depth knowledge of an issue critical to a comprehensive understanding
of the interdisciplinary ﬁeld of global studies
GLST 302   States and Firms   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the relationship between multinational
corporations and the state. It explores the origin of ﬁrms, as well
as issues such as corruption, tax policy, bailouts, and economic
development. It also examines the development of private military
contractors and their relationship to state security.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the various
relations between multinational corporations and states as well as
private military contractors and states
GLST 303   Technological Change and Society   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores how changes in technology affect society in four
broad areas: its impact on how we communicate, on the workplace, on
regulatory issues surrounding technology ﬁrms, and on humanity itself.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the various
relations between technology and society

--- Page 118 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 149
GLST 304   Global Civil Society and Social Movements   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on global civil society groups (both advocacy groups
or apolitical) and on social movements that seek to ﬁght injustices.
We discuss a variety of examples of civil society projects ranging
from monitoring government corruption and promoting micro-credit to
organizing transnational protest campaigns.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-GLST 304/SOCL 304   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate a comprehension of the dynamics of global
civil society and social movements, both for cases discussed in class and
to material from outside class
GLST 305   Globalization and Environmental Sustainability   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course introduces students to social, political and economic factors
that have contributed to globalization, development and their impact
on the environment. It provides students with the background and
conceptual tools to understand global environmental challenges and
questions.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will develop a fundamental knowledge of the study of global
development and environmental challenges and develop analytical
skills to assess the tradeoffs involved in economic development and
environmental sustainability
GLST 306   International Development   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides an interdisciplinary overview of the international
development system and issues related to development in those
countries variously referred to as third world, developing, underdeveloped,
or peripheral countries.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-GLST 306/SOCL 306   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate a fundamental knowledge of the
various factors that are considered to help or hinder development
GLST 370   Internship in Global Studies   (3-6 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Open to all GLST major and minors but requires instructor
permission to enroll   
Students enrolled in this course must secure an internship relevant to
the ﬁeld of global studies. Students not only engage in regular workplace
activities but also attend class meetings, complete writing assignments
reflecting on their internship placements, write a ﬁnal paper, and submit a
ﬁnal evaluation from their workplace supervisor.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Asian
Studies, European Studies, Global Studies, Islamic World Studies, Latin
American Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate awareness of at least one important global
concern or issue as addressed in the internship
GLST 398   Topics in Global Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
This is a variable topics course. Speciﬁc topics vary from semester to
semester.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge of a unique topic in the
interdisciplinary ﬁeld of Global StudiesGreek (GREK)
GREK 101   Ancient Greek I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces students to elementary grammatical forms, basic
syntax, and vocabulary of ancient Greek, and simple readings in the
language.
Course equivalencies:  GREK131/GREK101   
Outcomes:
students should be able to demonstrate basic knowledge of ancient
Greek vocabulary, syntax and grammar and deploy it to be able to
translate accurately simple Greek sentences and passages into English
GREK 102   Ancient Greek II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  GREK 101   
This course continues the study of the fundamentals of the ancient
Greek language, including more vocabulary, grammar, syntax and more
advanced readings. (Ancient Greek I or its equivalent is a prerequisite for
this course.)
Course equivalencies:  GREK132/GREK102   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate more advanced knowledge of
ancient Greek vocabulary, syntax and grammar, and deploy it to be able to
translate accurately more advanced Greek sentences and passages into
English
GREK 236   Xenophon   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  GREK 102   
This course centers on translation of representative selections from the
prose works of Xenophon, with special emphasis on review of ancient
Greek grammar as it is encountered in the selected texts.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the selected prose passages in
ancient Greek with accuracy, as well as demonstrate understanding of the
content of the passages
GREK 262   Introduction to Plato   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  GREK 102   
This course centers on translation of representative selections from
works of the philosopher Plato, with special emphasis on review of
ancient Greek grammar as it is encountered in the selected texts.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate accurately the selected passages
from Plato, as well as demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the
content of the passages
GREK 267   Intro to New Testament Greek   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  GREK 102   
This course centers on translation of selections from the New Testament,
with special emphasis on review of ancient Greek grammar as it is
encountered in the selected texts.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-GREK267/THEO307   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate accurately the selected passages, as
well as demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the content

--- Page 119 ---
150  College of Arts and Sciences
GREK 271   Intermediate Greek   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  GREK 101; GREK 102 or equivalent This intermediate-level
course centers on translation of prose and poetry of Greek authors, with
special emphasis on review of Greek grammar as it is encountered in the
selected texts   
No course description is available
Outcomes:
To review and master basic Greek grammar, vocabulary, and syntax; To
read and understand selections of Greek prose and poetry in the original
language; To prepare for further study in ancient Greek literature (in the
original), history, and culture
GREK 275   Introduction to Greek Oratory   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  GREK 102   
This course centers on translation of selections from Attic and other
ancient Greek orators, with special emphasis on review of ancient Greek
grammar as it is encountered in the selected texts.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate accurately the selected passages,
analyze and appreciate their style and content, and demonstrate
knowledge and understanding of their contexts and meanings, as well as
rhetorical ﬁgure and constructs in them
GREK 281   Intro to Greek Historiography   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  GREK 102   
This course centers on translation of representative selections from
the historical works of ancient Greek authors, with special emphasis on
review of ancient Greek grammar as it is encountered in the selected
texts.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate accurately ancient Greek historical
prose passages, analyze and appreciate their style and contents, and
demonstrate knowledge and understanding of their various contexts and
meanings
GREK 285   Introduction to Greek Poetry   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  GREK 102   
This course centers on translation of representative selections from the
poetic works of ancient Greek authors, with special emphases on review
of Greek grammar as it is encountered in the selected texts and the basic
style and structure of Greek poetry.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate accurately the selected passages in
Greek poetry, comprehend, analyze and appreciate various poetic genres,
as well as demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the content and
artistry of the selected poetry
GREK 286   Introduction to Greek Drama   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  GREK 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
This course centers on translation of representative selections from
the dramatic works of ancient Greek authors, with special emphases on
review of Greek grammar as it is encountered in the selected texts and
the basic style and structure of Greek drama.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate accurately the selected passages in
Greek drama, comprehend, analyze and appreciate the genre, as well as
demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the content and artistry of
the selected textsGREK 287   Introduction to Christian Greek   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  GREK 102   
This course focuses on the translation of selected passages from
Christian Greek writers, such as Origen, Basil, and Gregory, with special
emphasis on review of grammar as it is encountered in the selected texts.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate accurately the selected readings,
analyze and appreciate their style and content, and demonstrate
knowledge and understanding of their contexts and meanings
GREK 289   Readings in Ancient Greek Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  GREK 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
Students study a selected range of texts in ancient Greek literature. (This
is a special topics course in ancient Greek.)
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate deeper knowledge and
understanding of ancient Greek literature, its style, and its possible
interpretations
GREK 303   Greek Composition   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Two other GREK author courses   
This course involves practical exercises to develop correct and fluent
expression in written ancient Greek prose.
Outcomes:
students should be able to write ancient Greek in various styles,
demonstrating facility in deploying fluent knowledge of vocabulary,
syntax and grammar in the writing of ancient Greek prose
GREK 315   The Greek Fathers   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the writings of the early church fathers, including
such as Athanasius, Basil and John (Chrysostom); it also comprises an
introduction to the historical background of Eastern patristic thought.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate these works with proﬁciency,
demonstrate knowledge in detail of the writings, their authors and their
times, and appreciate more deeply the issues and concerns located in
these writings
GREK 325   Demosthenes   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the works of the Attic orator Demosthenes, amid
the political and historical context of later Classical Athens.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate these works with proﬁciency,
demonstrate knowledge in detail of the genre, the author and his times,
and understand and appreciate the ideas, issues and concerns expressed
in the orations
GREK 331   Herodotus   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the Histories of Herodotus, the events about
which he writes, and the various contexts in which his work was
produced.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the Histories with proﬁciency, as
well as demonstrate knowledge in detail of the work, its author, and its
historical and political contexts and signiﬁcances
GREK 335   Thucydides   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the History of the Peloponnesian War of
Thucydides, the events about which he writes, and the various contexts in
which his work was produced.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the History with proﬁciency, as
well as demonstrate knowledge in detail of the work, its author, and its
historical and political contexts and signiﬁcances

--- Page 120 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 151
GREK 341   The Iliad   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course centers on Homer's Iliad and the genre of ancient Greek epic
poetry, in particular, on the characters of the heroes and their place within
the context of Greek society and thought.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the Iliad with proﬁciency, and
demonstrate detailed knowledge of the author, the poem, its contents and
meanings, as well as deeper understanding and appreciation of various
contexts of the poem, its transmission, and the accomplishment of its
composition
GREK 342   The Odyssey   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on Homer's Odyssey and the genre of ancient Greek
epic poetry, in particular, on the character of Odysseus and his place
within the context of Greek society and thought.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the Odyssey with proﬁciency, and
demonstrate detailed knowledge of the author, the poem, and its contents
and meanings, as well as deeper understanding and appreciation of
various contexts of the poem, its transmission, and the accomplishment
of its composition
GREK 343   Greek Lyric Poetry   (3 Credit Hours)   
The subject of this course is ancient Greek lyric poetry involving
selections from such as Archilochus, Sappho, Alcaeus, and Anacreon.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the selected works with proﬁciency,
demonstrate knowledge in detail about the authors, their poetry, and the
various poetic styles they employed, as well as deeper understanding
and appreciation of the historical, social and intellectual contexts and
influences pertaining to them
GREK 351   Aristophanes   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the comedic poetry of Aristophanes, set against
the backdrop of Athens in the late ﬁfth century B.C.E.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Shakespeare Studies   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the selections of Aristophanes with
proﬁciency, and demonstrate knowledge in detail about the author and
his comedies, as well as deeper understanding and appreciation of the
historical, social and intellectual contexts and influences pertaining to
them
GREK 353   Aeschylus   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on selected tragedies of Aeschylus, set against the
backdrop of Athens in the earlier ﬁfth century B.C.E.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Shakespeare Studies   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the selections from Aeschylus with
proﬁciency, and demonstrate knowledge in detail about the author and
his tragedies, as well as deeper understanding and appreciation of the
historical, social and intellectual contexts and influences pertaining to
them
GREK 354   Sophocles   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on selected tragedies of Sophocles, set against the
backdrop of Athens in the ﬁfth century B.C.E.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Shakespeare Studies   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the selections from Sophocles with
proﬁciency, and demonstrate knowledge in detail about the author and
his tragedies, as well as deeper understanding and appreciation of the
historical, social and intellectual contexts and influences pertaining to
themGREK 355   Euripides   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on selected tragedies of Euripides, set against the
backdrop of Athens in the later ﬁfth century B.C.E.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Shakespeare Studies   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the selections from Euripides with
proﬁciency, and demonstrate knowledge in detail about the author and
his tragedies, as well as deeper understanding and appreciation of the
historical, social and intellectual contexts and influences pertaining to
them
GREK 360   Theocritus   (3 Credit Hours)   
This courses centers on the poetry of Theocritus of Syracuse, set against
the background of Hellenistic Alexandria.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the selections from Theocritus with
proﬁciency, and demonstrate knowledge in detail about the author, his
poetry, and the styles he employed, as well as deeper understanding
and appreciation of the historical, social and intellectual contexts and
influences pertaining to them
GREK 362   Plato Republic   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course centers on translation, evaluation and interpretation of
selections from Plato's Republic.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the selections with proﬁciency, and
demonstrate knowledge in detail about the author and his work, as well
as deeper understanding and appreciation of the work's meaning and the
historical, social and intellectual contexts and influences pertaining to it
GREK 388   Readings in Greek Literature I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students study a selected range of masterworks in Greek literature. (This
is a special topics course in ancient Greek.)
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the selected works with proﬁciency
and demonstrate deeper knowledge and understanding of them, their
styles and possible interpretations
GREK 389   Readings in Greek Literature II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students study a selected range of masterworks in Greek literature. (This
is a special topics course in ancient Greek.)
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the selected works with proﬁciency
and demonstrate deeper knowledge and understanding of them, their
styles and possible interpretations
Hebrew (HEBR)
HEBR 101   Modern Hebrew I   (3 Credit Hours)   
An introduction to the fundamentals of modern Hebrew, together with
study of the distinctive culture of the Jewish state of Israel.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand basic Hebrew sentences and to give
basic information about themselves in Hebrew, and will demonstrate
knowledge of the culture of modern Israel
HEBR 102   Modern Hebrew II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  HEBR 101   
A continued introduction to the fundamentals of modern Hebrew,
together with study of distinctive culture of the Jewish state of Israel.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand basic Hebrew sentences and to give
basic information about themselves in Hebrew, and will demonstrate
knowledge of the culture modern Israel

--- Page 121 ---
152  College of Arts and Sciences
HEBR 103   Modern Hebrew III   (3 Credit Hours)   
Taught in Hebrew. Course focuses on pronunciation, grammar, and
developing conversational and writing fluency.
HEBR 104   Modern Hebrew IV   (3 Credit Hours)   
Taught in Hebrew. Students will comprehend and produce Hebrew
in more complex contexts (literary and cultural) while reviewing
intermediate grammar structures to improve fluency and accuracy.
Students present and debate cultural, historical or current events topics;
practice expressing emotion, opinion, judgment, necessity, hypotheticals,
and regret.
History (HIST)
HIST 101   Culture, Power and Identity: Western Ideas & Institutions to
17th Century   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course traces the early development of Western ideas and
institutions from the ancient Near East; Greece and Rome; the medieval
civilization(s); to the European Renaissance and Reformation.
Knowledge Area:  Foundational Historical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST101/CATH101/ACHIS101   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of history as a discipline; be able
to place Judaism, Christianity, and Islam in historical context; explain
the expansion of the West; and develop their critical thinking and
communications skills
HIST 102   Culture, Power and Identity: Western Ideas & Institutions from
17th Century   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course traces the development of Western ideas and institutions and
their global impact from the seventeenth century to the present.
Knowledge Area:  Foundational Historical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Course equivalencies:  ACHIS 102 / HIST 102   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of history as a discipline, develop
critical thinking skills based on historical knowledge about th e key
people, places, and events that shaped the modern world, and hone their
communication skills
HIST 103   American Pluralism   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to the origins, development and structure
of the United States as a pluralistic and multiracial society f rom 1609 to
the present.
Knowledge Area:  Foundational Historical Knowledge   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of history as a discipline,
demonstrate historical knowledge, draw links between the American
experience and national identities, and develop critical thinking and
communication skillsHIST 104   Global History Since 1500   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course deals with the emergence of the modern world, including
such topics as the expansion and intensiﬁcation of cross-cultural
interaction; imperialism, colonialism, and nationalism; the spread of
information; capitalism, industrialism, and popular sovereignty; race and
ethnicity, gender, and socio-economic status.
Knowledge Area:  Foundational Historical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  HIST / ACHIS 104   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of history as a discipline; Evaluate
and explain the forces of historical continuity and change; Demonstrate
how the encounters/changes between and among societies produced the
world we have today; Analyze and discuss the signiﬁcance of primary and
secondary sources and how they relate to the history under discussion
HIST 205   Modern Western Civilization: Social Sciences in Context   (3
Credit Hours)   
An introduction to history as a discipline and an analysis of the history of
Western civilization since the 17th century that emphasizes the contexts
from which emerged the concepts of the social sciences and their related
value systems.
HIST 208   East Asian History: Themes & Issues   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  HIST 101, HIST 102, HIST 103, HIST 104, or equivalent;
please check requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course explores the roles and contributions of China, Japan, and
Korea from the sixteenth century to the present tracing such themes
as nationalism, capitalism, socialism, imperialism, war, peace, race, and
gender struggles.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Historical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies, Japanese Language
and Culture   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST108/ASIA108/INTS108   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an ability to evaluate and explain the forces
of historical continuity and change; understand the relationships among
historical events, cultures and social forces; analyze and discuss the
signiﬁcance of primary and secondary sources
HIST 208X   Pre-Modern Chinese History   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course starts with the formative periods of Chinese civilization from
the Neolithic era and ends with the Opium War and the collapse of the
Manchu Qing Empire in 1911. This course will provide students with an
understanding of modern-day China by looking at China's dynamic and
multilayered past.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Historical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Chinese Language & Culture   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST342A/ASIA342A   
Outcomes:
Students will learn to: situate major historical events in China's early
history in their proper geographical, chronological, and thematic context;
and use primary and secondary sources to construct interpretations of
historical problems and events

--- Page 122 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 153
HIST 208Z   Modern Chinese History   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course is speciﬁcally designed for foreign students studying in
Beijing with the objective of enabling them to understand the ongoing
social, economic and political trends which have roots in the past. The
time period studied will span from the end of the 19th century through
the 20th century.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Historical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Chinese Language & Culture   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST346A/ASIA346A/INTS346A   
Outcomes:
students will learn to situate major historical events such as the May
Fourth Movement in their proper geographical, chronological, and
thematic context; and recognize the extent to which history is at the core
of current Chinese leaders' speeches, policy making, and rule making
HIST 209   Survey of Islamic History   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  HIST 101, HIST 102, HIST 103, HIST 104, or equivalent;
please check requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions   
The course will introduce the historical development of Islamic
civilization and the formation of Muslim social and political institutions
from the 7th century to the present.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Historical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Arabic
Language and Culture, Asian Studies, Global Studies, Islamic World
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  HIST/ASIA/IWS/INTS109/AFR111   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge of the historical
development and diversity of Islamic beliefs, practices, and institutions in
varied regional contexts and historical periods
HIST 210   Latin American History: Themes & Issues   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  HIST 101, HIST 102, HIST 103, HIST 104, or equivalent;
please check requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course explores the formation of modern Latin America by
examining the region as a global nexus where ideologies, cultures,
peoples, and political entities have conjoined and clashed from the
ﬁfteenth century to the present. Demonstrate and understanding of
the relationships among historical events, culture and social forces.
Differentiate between students' values and ways of understanding the
world & those of other cultures.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Historical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Global
Studies, Latin American Studies   
Outcomes:
Demonstrate and ability to evaluate and explain forces of historical
continuity and change; Demonstrate and understanding of the
relationships among historical events, culture and social forces;
Differentiate between students' values and ways of understanding the
world & those of other cultures
HIST 211   US History to 1865: Themes & Issues   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  HIST 101, HIST 102, HIST 103, HIST 104, or equivalent;
please check requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course is an introduction to the history of the United States from the
colonial era through the Civil War.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Historical Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  HIST201/HIST111/ACHIS201   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of Native American
societies, the impact of European colonization, the creation and evolution
of democratic institutions in a multicultural society, the geographic
expansion of the United States, and the impact of slaveryHIST 212   US History since 1865: Themes & Issues   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  HIST 101, HIST 102, HIST 103, HIST 104, or equivalent;
please check requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course is an introduction to the history of the United States from the
Civil War to the present.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Historical Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  HIST202/HIST112/ACHIS202   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of how the United States
became a modern industrial society, the emergence and evolution of the
modern welfare state, the rise of the United States as a global power, and
the impact of controversies over civil rights and liberties on American
society
HIST 213   African History: Themes & Issues   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  HIST 101, HIST 102, HIST 103, HIST 104, or equivalent;
please check requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course surveys the history of Africa from dynastic Egypt to
post-colonialism. The primary focus of this class is to examine the
interactions African peoples had with non-Africans from the 15th century
to the present. Engage communication skills and sensitivities. Possess a
heightened understanding of diversity in the world.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Historical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Global
Studies, Islamic World Studies   
Outcomes:
Engage in critical thinking skills and disposition; Engage communication
skills and sensitivities; Possess a heightened understanding of diversity
in the world
HIST 253A   Barbarians and the Fall of the Roman Empire   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course examines the interaction between Romans and the so-called
'barbarians' such as the Goths, Huns, Slavs, and Arabs from the 2nd to
the 7th centuries, with a focus on how new archaeological and skeletal
data is changing our understanding of the barbarians.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Italian Studies, Medieval
Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will study the role of neighboring peoples in the collapse of
the Roman Empire; interpret archaeological data; compare receptions of
immigrants and refugees in the ancient and modern world
HIST 254A   The Vikings   (3 Credit Hours)   
The Vikings are popularly thought of as invaders, marauders, destroyers
of civilized peace. However, recent research has focused on their society,
culture, accomplishments and contributions in a much more positive
sense.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Medieval Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST334/MSTU326   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of the impact of the Vikings
on European development; a knowledge of historiographical issues
concerning the Vikings; and awareness of various types of primary
sources

--- Page 123 ---
154  College of Arts and Sciences
HIST 257A   Witchcraft and Science in Pre-Modern Europe   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course will trace the history of medieval and early modern ideas
about nature, magic, demonology, and witchcraft, exploring the history of
reason and rationality, elite and popular culture, persecution and society,
and the intersections between Magic, Science, and Witchcraft.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Medieval Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will understand connections between witchcraft and popular
religions; the gendering of witches; the political and economic aspects of
witch trials; and modern portrayals of witches in popular media
HIST 258A   Blood, Heresy, and Treason: The Tudors and Stuarts   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course covers the most crucial period in the history of England,
encompassing the Reformation, The Tudors, the Civil War, the Glorious
Revolution, and the rise of Britain as a great power. Major ﬁgures featured
include Richard III, Henry VIII, Thomas More, Elizabeth I, Shakespeare,
Oliver Cromwell, and Charles II. Students will confront developments
signiﬁcant not just for the British Isles, but across the globe for centuries.
Students will hone their critical thinking skills through the analysis of
historical evidence.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
HIST 265A   The First World War   (3 Credit Hours)   
World War I is arguably the greatest watershed separating us from our
pre-modern past. This course proposes to explore the causes, campaigns
consequences, and cultural legacies of the war. Students will be required
to read eyewitness accounts and memoirs, and view ﬁlms that assess
the war's impact on world civilization. Students will learn about the First
World War by engaging with primary accounts by combatants and non-
combatants. Students will hone their critical thinking skills t hrough the
analysis of historical evidence.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
HIST 267A   Modern German Culture and Ideas I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will investigate intellectual and cultural responses to major
events of nineteenth-century German history, including the Napoleonic
Wars, the Restoration, the Revolution of 1848, the uniﬁcation of Germany,
the German Empire under Bismarck and Wilhelm II, and events leading to
the First World War.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, German Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST321A/INTS321A   
Outcomes:
The student will be able to connect German cultural life to political and
social developments, and be able to identify intellectual currents such as
Romantic Germany, Idealist Germany, and Dionysian Germany
HIST 267B   Modern German Culture and Ideas II   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will cover the major phases of modern German history:
Wilhelmine Germany, Volkish Germany, Germany in the First World War,
Weimar Germany, National Socialist Germany, Germany in the Second
World War, Post-War West Germany, East Germany, and Reuniﬁcation.
While setting forth the background of political and social developments,
we will carefully consider responses to these issues by leaders in German
intellectual and cultural life.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, German Studies, Global
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST336/INTS336   
Outcomes:
Students will apprehend the role of Germany in World War I; the turn
to the Weimar Republic; the Rise and Fall of National Socialism; the
emergence of two Germanies as a consequence of defeat in World War II;
reuniﬁcation in 1989; and cultural responses to these developmentsHIST 275A   The Silk Roads: Global Trade, Culture, & Politics   (3 Credit
Hours)   
The course will cover: exchanges between nomad and sedentary
populations in East Asia and the flourishing of information routes to
modern day Mongolia, Afghanistan, India, Greece and Rome; interactions
with European powers, concepts of colonialism, imperialism, and the
emergence of 20th century world wars; contemporary geo-political
challenges in the region.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Understand diversity in the World from a historical, political, and
economic point of view; familiarize oneself with the relations between
Asia and the West; highlight differences, similarities and reciprocal
influences
HIST 278A   Violence Drug Trafﬁcking & Crime in Latin America   (3 Credit
Hours)   
The aim of this course is to examine the historical factors behind Latin
America's contemporary security crisis. With a particular focus on the
region's process of modernization, state building and democratization,
the course examines the linkages between political and criminal, as well
as between past and present forms of violence. Students will be able to
demonstrate an understanding of the main institutional, cultural, and
political reasons behind the prevalence of violence and crime in the Latin
American region.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Latin American Studies   
HIST 279C   History of Computing   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will teach students about the history of computing from the
development of number systems and arithmetic, through calculating
and computing machines, to advanced communication technology via
the Internet. The History of Computing will foster historical awareness
about the ongoing relationships between social organization, intellectual
climate, and technological innovation. Students will attain computer
science literacy while studying core historical concepts. They will learn
the background of the computing discipline, which plays a signiﬁcant role
in modern human experience.
Course equivalencies:  X - COMP 111 / HIST 279C   
HIST 279E   Climate and History   (3 Credit Hours)   
Explores the role of climate in history, from the emergence of homo
sapiens to recent anthropogenic climate change. Major topics include
the social impact of climate variability, sources of resilience, origins of
scientiﬁc knowledge, and the use of historical knowledge in the  present.
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST279E/ ENVS279   
Outcomes:
Students will analyze examples of climate shaping history, learn different
ways that scholars have treated this relationship, and reflect on how this
knowledge might be useful today
HIST 280A   Pirates and Sailors in the Revolutionary Atlantic   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Moving beyond seafaring lore and legend, this course places the history
of pirates and sailors in the context of "Atlantic history. " Students
will explore how organized conquests and trading ventures led to the
formation of the ﬁrst British empire and the expansion of commercial
networks around the Atlantic and beyond.
Outcomes:
Course prepares students to confront the way political and economic
power is exercised, justiﬁed, questioned, and resisted during periods of
rapid, global capitalist expansion

--- Page 124 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 155
HIST 290A   History of Sexuality in the United States   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides a historical introduction to sexual behaviors and
attitudes in the United States from the early American period to the
present. The primary emphasis concerns the impact of social and
political change on sexual norms and behavior.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST392/WOST/WSGS320   
Outcomes:
The course enables students to comprehend the evolving boundaries of
sexual behavior and the historical transformations of the family, sexuality,
gender, and personal identity in the United States
HIST 291A   American Icons: Heroes, Images, Ideas   (3 Credit Hours)   
We explore US history through Iconic photographs, movies, artworks
and essays. For example, the ﬁlm "To Kill a Mockingbird, " allows us to
delineate the image of race, class and family in the South during the
Great Depression, even as the ﬁlm opens up Hollywood's role in shaping
popular ideologies. Learn about 20th-century US history, including the
Great Depression, Civil Rights Movement, and Cold War; develop writing
and discussion skills; learn about the relationship between history and
memory.
HIST 297E   North American Environmental History   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course surveys the environment and environmentalism in United
States history, from the transformation of New England into a farm
ecology, the expansion of the cotton South, the settlement of the West, to
the rise of industrial cities, suburban sprawl, and the globalization of the
economy.
Course equivalencies:  X-ENVS297/HIST297E   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate historical knowledge of
environmental thought and ecological science, to draw links between
environmental concerns and public policies, and to develop critical
thinking and communication skills
HIST 298A   History and the Public: Intro to Public History   (3 Credit
Hours)   
History and the Public explores the ﬁeld of public history with special
emphasis on the theory, methods, practice, ethics, and controversies
faced when preserving or presenting history outside of a formal
classroom environment.
Outcomes:
Appreciate how public historians shape public perceptions of the past
and how public perceptions of the past shape public history; appreciate
the diverse areas of historical practice; enhance teamwork skills
HIST 299   Historical Methods   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  12 hours in HIST   
This course studies the ways historians arrive at their interpretation
of events. This is accomplished through a history of historical writing
or through a special selected topic that illustrates the use of different
methods by past and present historians. Students are expected to take
this course after completing their four introductory courses for the major.
Outcomes:
students will understand that history is not a set of facts but a discipline
that depends on competing paradigms and the ongoing interpretation of
primary sources
HIST 300   Topics in History   (3 Credit Hours)   
Special topics or new approaches of current interest to the instructor.
They may be used, like all other 300-level courses, to fulﬁll the history
major distribution requirements. The title of each Topics course,
specifying date and/or area, will indicate which distribution requirement
it fulﬁlls within the history major. Students can take HIST 300 multiple
times.HIST 300A   Topics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Special topics or new approaches of current interest to the instructor.
This course counts as a 300-level history elective. Students may repeat
the course for credit when the topic changes.
Outcomes:
Students will gain familiarity with the topic; the ability to m ake
connections between secondary and primary sources; and the capacity
to think critically about the ways that historians have approached major
issues
HIST 300B   Topics in Premodern History   (3 Credit Hours)   
Special topics or new approaches of current interest to the instructor.
This course may be used to fulﬁll the history major distribution
requirement in 300-Level Pre-1700 European History or may count as
a 300-Level history elective. Students may repeat the course for credit
when the topic changes.
Outcomes:
Students will gain familiarity with the topic; the ability to m ake
connections between secondary and primary sources; and the capacity
to think critically about the ways that historians have approached major
issues
HIST 300C   Topics in European History (Post-1700)   (3 Credit Hours)   
Special topics or new approaches of current interest to the instructor.
This course may be used to fulﬁll the history major distribution
requirement in 300-Level Post-1700 European History or may count as
a 300-Level history elective. Students may repeat the course for credit
when the topic changes.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain familiarity with the topic; the ability to m ake
connections between secondary and primary sources; and the capacity
to think critically about the ways that historians have approached major
issues
HIST 300D   Topics in U.S. History   (3 Credit Hours)   
Special topics or new approaches of current interest to the instructor.
This course may be used to fulﬁll the history major distribution
requirement in 300-level U.S. history or may count as a 300-level history
elective. Students may repeat the course for credit when the topic
changes.
Outcomes:
Students will gain familiarity with the topic; the ability to m ake
connections between secondary and primary sources; and the capacity
to think critically about the ways that historians have approached major
issues
HIST 300E   Topics in World History   (3 Credit Hours)   
Special topics or new approaches of current interest to the instructor.
This course may be used to fulﬁll the history major distribution
requirement for a 300-level course in the history of Africa, Asia, Latin
America, or the Middle East or may count as a 300-level history elective.
Students may repeat the course for credit when the topic changes.
Outcomes:
Students will gain familiarity with the topic; the ability to m ake
connections between secondary and primary sources; and the capacity
to think critically about the ways that historians have approached major
issues

--- Page 125 ---
156  College of Arts and Sciences
HIST 301   Plagues: The Black Death and Other Pandemics   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course examines some of the worst pandemics ever to strike
humanity, starting with the outbreaks of smallpox and bubonic in the
ﬁnal centuries of the Roman Empire, the devastating Black Death of the
14th century, and the diseases that destroyed the native Americans in the
wake of Columbus's voyages.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST301/ESP 304   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of: the role of poverty, nutrition,
and population in epidemics; state, church, or community responses to
epidemics; how science has changed the history of disease
HIST 302   History of Western Education   (3 Credit Hours)   
History of Western Education. (ELPS 310)
Course equivalencies:  X-ELPS301/HIST302   
HIST 303   Pre-Industrial City in Europe   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course traces urban development from late antiquity to the early
modern period.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Medieval Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST303/MSTU324   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the origins and
chronology of European town planning and development; and make
comparisons with Islamic and Asian cities
HIST 307   Greece to Alexander the Great   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores ancient Greek history, society and culture, from the
Bronze Age through the period of Classical Greece ending with Alexander
and his empire.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-CLST309/HIST307   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to evaluate and interpret different types of sources
critically and explain how these affect our understanding of the ancient
Greeks
HIST 308A   History of Rome to Constantine   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course surveys ancient Roman history, with a focus on Rome's
conquest of the Mediterranean, the civil wars that ended the Roman
Republic, the good and bad emperors of the Principate, and the
conversion of Constantine to Christianity.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-CLST308/HIST308/ROST308   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the interrelationship among political, social,
economic, and cultural developments and develop their research and
writing skills
HIST 308B   Pompeii and Herculaneum   (3 Credit Hours)   
The two best known Roman towns - Pompeii and Herculaneum - whose
remains were preserved by the eruption of Mt. Vesuvius in 79 CE - will
serve as a microcosm for understanding Roman society.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Italian Studies   
Course equivalencies:  HIST328/CLST328/ANTH328   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of how recent archaeological
discoveries have changed our view of Pompeii and Herculaneum and
learn to "read" such things as dining and bathing rituals, gladiator games,
and public and private architecture to gain insight into the structures of
Roman social and cultural lifeHIST 308C   History of Early Christianity   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the history of Christian communities and beliefs
from their emergence in Jewish Palestine to the legalization of that
religion in the Late Antique period. Students will gain familiarity with the
diversity of early Christian belief, the interaction with the Roman imperial
government, the evangelization and spread of Christianity both within the
Roman Empire and outside it, the impact of Christianity on Roman social
and family life, and the birth of monasticism.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST309/CATH309   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to evaluate the impact of discoveries such as the
Dead Sea Scrolls and the Nag Hammadi library on the history of early
Christianity; appreciate the extraordinary diversity of early Christianity;
understand why Christianity was seen as a threat to Roman family life;
improve their research, writing, and oral presentation skills; improve their
critical reading skills of both secondary and primary sources
HIST 308D   Transformations of Rome in Late Antiquity   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the City of Rome itself from the third century up
to the reign of Charlemagne. It demonstrates that this period was a time
of gradual transformation and continuity. Both literary sources and the
archaeology and epigraphy of the City shall be combined to show that
barbarian invasions did not destroy the walls of Rome, and that the arrival
of Christianity did not cause the fall of classical culture.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, German Studies   
Course equivalencies:  HIST 339/CLST 318   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the working
of historical mechanisms, evaluate and critically analyze this historical
period
HIST 309   Shipwreck Archaeology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students study how the technology of scuba diving combined with
scientiﬁc archaeology has created a new discipline of shipwreck
archaeology since the 1960s. They follow the history of the discipline
and explore shipwrecks from Bronze Age Greece to nineteenth-century
Chicago. They synthesize the research and conclusions of nautical
archaeologists worldwide and organize those ﬁndings for presentation
to a broader public in the coherent and imaginative form of their own
Museum.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Medieval Studies   
Course equivalencies:  XHIST324MSTU330ANTH347CLST324   
Outcomes:
Students understand the importance of vessels conserved at Skuldelev,
Lake Nemi and Uluburun for tracing the development of commerce and
technology among the Vikings, the Romans, and the Syro-Palestinians of
the Levant
HIST 310   The Middle Ages   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines European, Islamic and Byzantine society and
culture in the Middle Ages.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, German Studies, Medieval
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST310/MSTU328/CATH310   
Outcomes:
Students will learn of the Middle Ages, including relations between
religious and political institutions; cultural developments; the rise of
towns; reactions to the Black Death and the Hundred Years War

--- Page 126 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 157
HIST 310A   Medieval World 1100-1500   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines European society and culture in the later Middle
Ages.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, German Studies, Medieval
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  HIST311/MSTU332/CATH311   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of new forms of schools and
learning; the origins of national monarchies; the crusades; chivalry;
courtly love and the role of women; the rise of towns; church and state
relations; the Black Death and the Hundred Years War
HIST 310B   Medieval Culture   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores the three cultures of the Middle Ages - Islam,
Byzantium, and Europe, with particular emphasis on art, music, and
literature.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, German Studies   
Outcomes:
students will understand how these cultures developed through shared
roots, mutual influence, interaction and reaction; be able to interpret
artistic expression and material culture in historical context; and gain skill
in the analysis of primary sources
HIST 310C   Medieval Women   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores the lives of medieval women from 500-1500
CE. While paying close attention to medieval ideas about gender and
sexuality, students will examine experiences of medieval women from a
range of backgrounds and social statuses as well as male and female
roles in family life, religion, and politics.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Medieval Studies, Women & Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will understand resources concerning medieval women
while gaining appreciation for the need to challenge historical "master
narratives" that frequently ignore or minimize the experiences and roles
of women
HIST 310D   Medieval Popular Religion   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will explore the "lived" religious experience of medieval
people through their actions, behaviors and artifacts. "Folk" (or pagan)
survivals, pilgrimage, music and arts, devotion to saints, magical beliefs
and practices, and attitudes to the natural/supernatural world[ s] may be
covered, depending on subtitle.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, Medieval Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will appreciate the complex world view and agency of regular
medieval people; they will acquire research skills and be able to critically
assess primary and secondary source materials
HIST 310F   Medieval Inquisitions and Heresy   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the intriguing range of religious beliefs and
practices in medieval Europe. Over the course of the semester, students
will explore the criteria and processes by which local communities and
translocal authorities deﬁned heresy as well as the political interests and
cultural assumptions that shaped labels and deﬁnitions.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Medieval Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will understand beliefs that shaped medieval religiosity, gain
appreciation for roles played by heretics and inquisitions in premodern
Europe, and look for similar phenomena in the modern worldHIST 310G   Supernatural in the Middle Ages   (3 Credit Hours)   
Understanding the medieval supernatural leads to an appreciation of the
richness of medieval society and intellectual culture. How were "natural"
and "supernatural" deﬁned across time and space, popular and elite
cultures? How were ideas about the "supernatural" shaped by daily life,
theology?
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies, Medieval
Studies   
Outcomes:
Think historically about social and intellectual approaches to the
supernatural; Assess arguments; interpret and contextualize primary
sources; Develop research skills and ability to formulate questions
HIST 310L   Love and Violence in Medieval Culture and Society   (3 Credit
Hours)   
We will investigate the extent to which chivalric ideas controlled or
encouraged aristocratic violence; the relationship between violence and
courtliness; the extent to which chivalry threatened or strengthened royal
government; and the influence of courtly love on gender.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Medieval Studies, Women & Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
Familiarity with medieval ideas about acceptable forms of violence;
understand long-term influence of medieval ideas about love, sexuality,
and violence; how to read and interpret medieval literary and social texts
HIST 311B   The Crusades: Christianity and Islam   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the origins and development of the Crusades and
the Crusader States in the Islamic East. It will explore crusade ideology,
political and military histories of crusades, compare Christian, Jewish,
and Muslim perceptions of the crusading movement, and consider
invocations of Jihad and Crusade into the modern era.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies, Interreligious
and Interfaith Studies, Islamic World Studies, Medieval Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will learn about the histories of the Crusades, the communities
impacted by them, and historiographical debates on the topic; They will
write papers using primary and secondary sources
HIST 312   England to 1485   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the history of medieval England, with an emphasis
on its cultural history as manifested through written documents, material
remains, art and music.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Medieval Studies, Shakespeare Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST329/MSTU340   
Outcomes:
Students will understand that English culture is an amalgamation of
Anglo-Saxon and Norman-French culture, with influences from the Celtic
and the Latin culture of Roman Catholicism; and will gain skill in the
analysis of primary sources
HIST 314   Renaissance   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the political and cultural life of Italy's ﬁve principal
city-states (Rome, Florence, Venice, Milan and Naples) from the era of St.
Francis and Dante until the sack of Rome in 1527.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies, Italian
Studies, Medieval Studies, Shakespeare Studies   
Course equivalencies:  HIST314/MSTU336   
Outcomes:
Students gain appreciation for the debate about a rebirth of ancient
culture in the city-states of Italy; They acquire special cognizance of
humanism as a historical phenomenon and the influence of humanism on
education, politics, the visual arts and religion

--- Page 127 ---
158  College of Arts and Sciences
HIST 314A   The Jesuits: Life and History   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the history of the Society of Jesus from its
founding by Ignatius Loyola in the 16th century to its activities in the
contemporary world.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST297/CATH297   
Outcomes:
Students will gain a sense of the characteristics of Jesuit spirituality and
the contribution of Jesuits to various ﬁelds of human endeavor such as
evangelization, education, politics, literature, and the visual arts
HIST 315   The Reformation   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the birth and progress of the Reformation in
Europe from Luther's protest in 1517 to the conclusion of the Thirty Years
War in 1648.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies, German
Studies, Shakespeare Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST315/CATH316   
Outcomes:
Students gain familiarity with the social, religious, intellectual, and
political background of the Reformation; Luther's personal religious
experience and his theological convictions; the Swiss Reformation of
Zwingli and Calvin; the nature and spread of Calvinism; the elements of
the Radical Reformation; and the efforts for Catholic Reform culminating
at the Council of Trent
HIST 316   History of Poland   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines political, socioeconomic, and cultural
developments in Poland since the ﬁrst Polish state. Its major themes
include: the consolidation of the Polish state; economic and political
problems in the 17th Century; revolution and independence; World War II;
Communist rule in Poland; and Solidarity.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, European Studies, German
Studies, Global Studies, Polish Studies, Shakespeare Studies, European
Studies, European Studies, German Studies, Global Studies, Polish
Studies, Shakespeare Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will improve their analytical, quantitative synthetic, and critical
cognitive skills; develop written and oral communications skills; and gain
historical knowledge
HIST 317   Age of Absolutism & the Enlightenment   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course explores the period that leads directly into the French
Revolution.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students gain an appreciation of the social and economic role of Western
Europe in the world of the 17th and 18th centuries; the nature of classic
absolutism as illustrated by the reign of Louis XIV of France; and the
origin and evolution of Prussia and Austria as examples of enlightened
absolutism
HIST 318A   Early Modern England 1485-1760   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course surveys the major political, social, economic, religious, and
cultural developments in England under the Tudors, Stuarts and early
Hanoverians (1485-1760).
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Shakespeare Studies   
Outcomes:
Students examine the complexities of the aftermath of the Wars of the
Roses; the English Reformation; Elizabethan and Jacobean culture and
society; the English Civil War and Glorious Revolution of 1688; the wars
against Louis XIV; and the rise of England as a great powerHIST 318B   English Social History 1450-1750   (3 Credit Hours)   
This is a course in the social and cultural history of early-modern
England. It focuses, in particular, upon the tension between how early
modern English men and women saw their world (ordered, hierarchical,
stable, divinely sanctioned) and what their world was actually like
(disordered, socially mobile, unstable, secular).
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of the best and most recent work
in demography, iconography, family history, women's history, and the
histories of material culture, popular culture, religion, education and
crime, and be exposed both to a wide variety of historical methodologies
as well as related ﬁelds such as anthropology and art history
HIST 318C   London 1550 - 1715   (3 Credit Hours)   
This interdisciplinary introduction to the history of London will assess the
economic, political, social, and cultural reasons for the city's importance
in British and world history.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Shakespeare Studies, Urban
Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of how a variety of source materials
can be are used to develop an urban history of Great Britain's capital and
apply this knowledge to enhance their own communication and critical
thinking skills
HIST 320   Era French Revolution & Napoleon   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course analyzes the causes, meanings, and consequences of the
French Revolution of 1789 by examining French society and culture from
the age of absolutism to the end of Napoleon Bonaparte's empire.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of both the Revolution itself and its
effects on the course of world history and become familiar with variety of
analytic styles, such as narrative, political, economic, social, Marxist, and
revisionist approaches to the history of the period
HIST 321   19th Century European Culture and Ideas   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course investigates the main currents of European thought and
culture from the Romantic era to the ﬁn de siècle. Using literary texts and
music, as well as visual arts, we will study the major intellectual trends
of the nineteenth century and attempt to determine their influence on
European society.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, German Studies   
Outcomes:
By using their historical knowledge of nineteenth century Europe as a
guide, students will develop critical thinking and communications skills
about the art, music, and literature of the era
HIST 322   Modern France: From Empire to Postcolonial Nation   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course explores the cultural and political development of modern
France as a nation and imperial power. It examines the formation of
national identities; the discourse and practice of French nationalism and
republicanism; and the forms of resistance and collaboration that shaped
relations between citizens, state, colonized peoples, and empire.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST338/INTS338   
Outcomes:
Students will understand how the development of French republicanism
and Enlightenment thinking shaped nation and empire building in the
19th century but also influenced colonial resistance in the 20th century

--- Page 128 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 159
HIST 324   Italy 19th & 20th Centuries   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course studies the major currents in Italy from the defeat of
Napoleon to the present.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies, Italian American
Studies, Italian Studies, European Studies, Global Studies, Italian
American Studies, Italian Studies   
Course equivalencies:  HIST335/INTS335/ROST335   
Outcomes:
Students explore the political, social, religious, economic and intellectual
currents against the background of Italy's uniﬁcation as a nation-state
HIST 325   Modern Britain: Empire, Industry, Democracy   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines political changes in Britain, economic and social
causes and consequences of industrialization, and the changing position
of Great Britain in Europe and the world.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the political process of
democratization and the global affect of economic change on Britain
as evidenced in the extension of voting rights, the growth of Empire, the
creation of the Commonwealth and participation in the European Union
HIST 325A   The British Empire: From Barbados to Brexit   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course examines the rise and decline of Britain's empire.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST332/INTS332   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the different factors responsible for its growth;
relationship of empire and British economic and political change; place of
empire in the Victorian ethos; different imperial governing arrangements;
growth of nationalism and movements for independence within the
empire and commonwealth
HIST 326   Ireland: Colony to Nation State   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course traces the transformation of Britain's oldest colony into an
independent nation between the seventeenth and twentieth centuries.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  HIST333/INTS333   
Outcomes:
Students will develop an understanding of how Irish nationalism shaped
British and Irish history and use Ireland as a template to develop critical
thinking and communications skills about the transformation of colonies
into independent states
HIST 327A   The Balkans: History, Fiction, Film   (3 Credit Hours)   
Covering southeast European areas once ruled by the Habsburg,
Venetian, and Ottoman Empires, the course explores the following
issues: the rise and fall of empires; nationalism and nation-formation;
Communism and post-socialist transformations; popular culture and
politics; and experiences of war, organized violence, and international
intervention. Students will gain fain factual knowledge (terminology,
trends, basic structures) of Balkan societies and develop advanced skills
in speaking and writing about history
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies, Islamic World
Studies   HIST 328   Russia Pre-1917: Empire Building   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines how, by the middle of the 19th century, Russia
emerged as the largest empire in the world.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to explain how Russia survived the ravages of
the Mongols under Chingis Khan, the reign of terror under Ivan the
Terrible, westernization under Peter the Great; opened itself to new ideas
under Catherine the Great, while it continued to preserve an oppressive
institution of serfdom and remained a deeply divided society ready to
explode in 1917
HIST 328A   Russian Empire and Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines a history of the Russian empire through the works
of Russian literature. What Russian writers from Pushkin to Tolstoy
can tell us about Russia and how a history of the Russian empire is
crystallized in the works of ﬁction are among the issues addressed in this
course. Course introduces students to the history of the Russian empire
and classics of Russian literature. A historical and literary context will
help students understand the predicament of contemporary Russia.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
HIST 329   Women's Sphere in Past Society   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines comparative perspectives on feminism, sexuality,
and women in the family and in public life in Europe 1700-present.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST293/WOST256/WSGS256   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of women's contributions to
history, historian's perspectives on women in history, and the gendered
deﬁnition of public and private spheres
HIST 329C   Empire, Sex, Violence: European Colonial History   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course examines European colonialism in Africa and Asia. Topics
include theories of imperial expansion; the rise of "scientiﬁc" racism;
the role of class and gender in colonial ideologies; the relationship
between ideas of "civilization" and colonial violence; the forces behind
decolonization; and globalization in the post-colonial world. Students
will know the political and socio-economic factors that shaped European
imperialism in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries and understand the
consequences of colonialism and decolonization on the world tod ay.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies, Women &
Gender Studies   
HIST 329N   Modern European Nationalism: Myth and Reality   (3 Credit
Hours)   
The course will begin by tracing the origins and various forms of
European nationalism, continue with the establishment of nation-
states in Western and Eastern Europe, and end with a discussion of
various national and ethnic issues that dominate European political and
ideological discourse today.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies, Polish Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will explore ways in which nationalism has affected relations
between individuals, communities, and states in Europe; Students will
assess nationalism's adaptability to diverse social, political, and cultural
environments

--- Page 129 ---
160  College of Arts and Sciences
HIST 330   Europe in the Age of Catastrophe, 1900-1945   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course traces the origins of the two world wars in the ﬁrst half of the
twentieth century and assesses the cultural and political movements that
transformed Europe and the west in those years.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, German Studies, Global
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST325/INTS376   
Outcomes:
Students will develop critical thinking and communications skills about
how the contemporary world was shaped by the political, military,
cultural, and social transformations in the ﬁrst half of the twentieth
century
HIST 330F   Fascinating Fascism:  1919 to the Present   (3 Credit Hours)   
The recent emergence of populist nationalism in the western world has
sparked a renewed interest in the political phenomenon of Fascism.
This course explores the rise and evolution of Fascist movements and
regimes from early twentieth century to the present. Students will learn
about the characteristics of Fascist movements, the circumstances that
brought some of them to power, and the factors that shaped the behavior
of Fascist Regimes.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
HIST 331A   Food, Hunger, and Power in the Modern World   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course explores how conflicts over food shaped the modern world.
We compare shifting interpretations of famine (in Ireland, India, and
Ethiopia), and explore how food became a "weapon of war" during the
World Wars. Finally, the course analyzes how race, gender, and class
shaped American food and welfare policies.); Students will develop skills
in analytically interpreting both primary and secondary sources; Students
will have engaged in independent research with both primary and
secondary sources to complete a historical research project; Students
will understand how race and gender have shaped and been shaped by
the modern food system.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics, European Studies, Global Studies,
Women & Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will have developed an awareness of the biological, political,
social, cultural, and economic meanings of food in modern societies;
Students will have gained exposure to different methodological
approaches to studying food and hunger (anthropology, economics,
sociology, psychology, gender studies etc
HIST 334A   The Nazi Revolution   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course will deal with the causes, main features and consequences of
the Nazi movement in Germany and Europe from 1919 to 1945.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, German Studies   
Outcomes:
The students explore the origins of Nazism and the reasons for Hitler's
success; Students appreciate the elements of "Nazi culture, " the nature
of Nazi rule in the 1930s, Nazi foreign policy and aggression in the
1930s, and World War II; They acquire a sense of the Nazi movement as
a phenomenon growing out of unique German circumstances as well as
one reflecting the larger context of modern western historyHIST 334B   The Holocaust: History and Memory   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores a deﬁning event of modernity, the genocide of
Europe's Jews, by exploring Nazi actions, victims' varied experiences,
and international reactions. We will also tackle questions like: Was the
Holocaust unique? What does it mean to be a "bystander"? What are the
politics of memory and commemoration?
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies, Peace, Justice,
and Conflict Studies, Polish Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST304/PAX 304   
Outcomes:
Students acquire a sense of the causes, processes and implications of
recent genocide; They are challenged to develop the outlines of a theory
for predicting when genocide is likely to occur and to provide a clear
deﬁnition of the term; Most importantly, they articulate from the historical
data ways to prevent genocide
HIST 335   The Second World War   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course examines the history of the war from its origins to the
destruction of the Axis powers and the onset of the Cold War.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, German Studies, Global
Studies, Polish Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST326/INTS328/PAX 326   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the interrelationship among political, social,
economic, military, and diplomatic developments as demonstrated in the
events of the Holocaust, the spread of nationalism, and the origins of the
Cold War
HIST 336   Contemporary Europe 1945 to Present   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the postwar world, the movement toward European
integration; the tensions between East and West; problems and proposed
solutions in contemporary Europe, as well as responses to these issues
made by intellectual and cultural leaders of the modern age.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, German Studies, Global
Studies, Polish Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST327/INTS327   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the process of European integration, including
the effects of the Cold War on Europe, the challenges of the re-uniﬁcation
of Germany, the integration of ten Central European nations into the
European Union, and cultural reactions to these developments
HIST 337   Rise & Fall of Soviet Union   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will cover such issues as the Revolution and Civil War, Stalin's
repression, victories in World War II, the years of stagnation, Soviet
society, its institutions and culture.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies, Polish Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST341/INTS392   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to explain how the Russian Socialist revolution
came into being, what kind of society it sought to create, and how this
new society, the Soviet Union, developed and ﬁnally dissolved in 1991

--- Page 130 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 161
HIST 337A   Women in Russia and Eurasia, 1860-Present   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course surveys the experiences of women in the late Russian
empire, the Soviet Union, and the states that now comprise the region.
In particular, we will examine the ways in which writers, ﬁlmmakers, and
activists of the 19th, 20th, and 21st centuries have addressed the 'woman
question. '
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies, Women &
Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain understanding of key concepts related to women's
history in Russia; they will produce written and oral commentaries on the
texts and issues studied in class
HIST 338A   History of European Communism   (3 Credit Hours)   
In this course students will study the history of European Communism
from its inception. The success that this ideology enjoyed among
European societies makes it necessary to study this phenomenon in
detail. The course will begin by tracing the origins of Communism and
end with a discussion of its downfall.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, German Studies, Global
Studies   
Outcomes:
Improved cognitive skills and communications skills; Enhanced historical
knowledge
HIST 338B   Eastern Europe in the 20th Century   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course offers a historical survey and analysis of the processes of
political, social, cultural, and economic change that affected Eastern
Europe in the twentieth century. The course will begin with the break-up
of multi-national empires in Eastern Europe and end with the collapse of
communism.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Improved cognitive skills and communications skills; Enhanced historical
knowledge
HIST 339C   Modern Europe and the Arts   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course takes advantage of Chicago's access to one of the most
important collections of modern European art in the world. The Art
Institute of Chicago offers masterpieces representing every major
aesthetic movement in Western history. Full appreciation of these
treasures involves recognizing the historical circumstances that
surrounded their creation and considering the ideas their creators
intended to communicate.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST305/INTS305A   
Outcomes:
Students will better appreciate the great works themselves and learn
from them about major developments in modern European social,
political, and cultural historyHIST 339F   History of Feminist Thought and Social Action   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course focuses on the history and development of feminist thought
and activism since the late eighteenth century. Attention goes beyond
just U.S. and European feminist history, exploring Indigenous, Black, and
postcolonial feminism to investigate their unique feminist ideas and the
challenges they pose to "traditional" feminist thought and action.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X - WSGS 330 / HIST 339F   
Outcomes:
Students will learn to identify key concepts, thinkers, activists; analyze
and critique some of the major works; and develop an integrated
understanding of the history of feminist thought, broadly conceived
HIST 340B   Introduction to Islamic History   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the early and medieval history of the states,
societies, and cultures of the Middle East from the prophetic mission until
the fall of the 'Abbasid empire in 1258.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Islamic World Studies, Medieval Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST312/IWS312   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the impact of Islam as a
religious and cultural phenomenon and be able to analyze historically the
Quran as well as primary sources from jurisprudence, philosophy, ethics,
and historiography
HIST 341   Modern Middle East   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course surveys the modern Middle East, with a focus on the Arab
world.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Arabic Language and Culture, Global Studies,
Islamic World Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST313/INTS313/IWS313   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the Ottoman background;
the age of imperialism; and the 20th century, and be able to approach the
period from an anthropological as well as historical perspective
HIST 341B   Arab-Israeli Conflict   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores the history of the Arab-Israeli conflict since the
beginnings of the immigration of the East Europeans and Russian Jews
to Ottoman Palestine in the late 19th century.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Islamic World Studies, Peace,
Justice, and Conflict Studies   
Course equivalencies:  HIST322/INTS322/PAX 322/IWS322   
Outcomes:
Students will gain understanding of national Zionism in Europe; Ottoman
and British Palestine; the declaration of the state of Israel; the Palestinian
refugee problem; the Arab-Israeli wars; the Camp David agreement and
recent peace talks and their aftermath

--- Page 131 ---
162  College of Arts and Sciences
HIST 341C   Tunisia On-Site: Arab Spring, Democratic Change, Islam   (3
Credit Hours)   
A combination of site visits, lectures, and group discussions throughout
Tunisia provides a unique experiential understanding of the relationship
between the Arab spring, democratic change, Islam, gender relations, and
U.S. foreign policy amidst the historical inheritances of the Carthaginian,
Roman, Islamic, and French empires in North Africa.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Arabic
Language and Culture, Global Studies, Islamic World Studies, Women &
Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC 399/HIST 313T   
Outcomes:
Experientially based knowledge of the politics, society, culture, history,
and international relations of a country (Tunisia) in a region (North Africa)
at the intersection of Africa and the Middle East
HIST 342A   African History to 1600   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course traces the history of the African continent to 1600.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST350/BWS 386/INTS378   
Outcomes:
students will demonstrate understanding of the development and
diversity of political, economic, ecological, cultural and religious forces in
Africa, as well as the relationship between Africa and other world areas
HIST 342B   African History Post-1600   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course traces the history of the African continent from 1600 to the
present, i.e., from the tumult of the slave trade through Africa's resistance
to European imperialism and colonialism, and its eventual emergence as
an independent continent.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Global
Studies, Islamic World Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST351/BWS 387/INTS351   
Outcomes:
Students will appreciate the legacies of colonialism and place the
contemporary problems of independence in historical perspective
HIST 342C   The History of Islam in Africa   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the development of Islam in Africa, including
issues such as Islamic mysticism, eschatology, and state formation.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Islamic
World Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST349/BWS300/IWS349   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of how and when Islam entered
Africa and how the religion shaped African societies prior to the colonial
period
HIST 342D   African Diaspora in the Middle East and South Asia   (3 Credit
Hours)   
The purpose of this course is to explore the African Diaspora as it
pertains to the Middle East and South Asia. Issues such as the concept
of slavery in Islam, and identity preservation will be treated throughout
the course of the semester. Emphasis will be placed on the role Black
Africans such as Antara ibn Shadad, Malik Kafur, and Malik Ambar, just to
name a few, played in the formation and crystallization of Middle Eastern
and South Asian states, kingdoms and empires.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora   HIST 342M   African Music's Influence on American Music   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This historically-based exploration will analyze the role that African music
from the continent played in shaping and forming such American musical
forms as the Blues, Jazz, Rock and Roll, Soul Music, and Hip-Hop. The
course begins in 15th century West Africa, and ends in the late 20th
century American milieu.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Global
Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of the development and
diversity of African, as well as the influence of African music on American
culture
HIST 343   Modern South Asia   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will examine the modern history of South Asia. It will explore
the history of South Asia with a thematic and chronological approach.
Important subjects to be examined include: early modern state formation,
colonial forms of knowledge, religious identity, gender and class relations,
and the political economy in the early modern and colonial state.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies, Islamic World
Studies, Asian Studies, Global Studies, Islamic World Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will enhance their written and oral communication skills;
improve their critical thinking skills and improve their ability to engage in
historical analysis
HIST 345A   Traditional China from Antiquity to 1550   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will trace Chinese history from the origins of classical
Chinese civilization in the Shang and Zhou periods to the evolution of an
agrarian society under the imperial state.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Chinese Language & Culture, Asian
Studies, Chinese Language & Culture   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST342/ASIA341   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of how domination by aristocratic
lineage gave way to the Confucian state and society based on peasant
farming; and how a bureaucratic and autocratic polity existed in
symbiosis with a socioeconomic elite that maintained itself through the
dominance of the agrarian economy as well as through increasing access
to the sources of commerce and trade
HIST 346A   Early Modern China: 1550-1800   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course studies early modern Chinese society, economy, and the state
from ca. 1550 to 1800, a period which marked the culmination of the
development of the centralized, bureaucratic, imperial state and exhibited
signiﬁcant innovations in economic structure and activity. Students will
be able to describe the pressure of unprecedented demographic growth,
and explain how the society began to experience many of the problems
that continue. They will be able analyze China's failure to build on its
earlier economic and technological successes by exploring intellectual
life and its relation to scientiﬁc and technological innovation.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Chinese Language & Culture   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST344/ASIA344/INTS371   

--- Page 132 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 163
HIST 346B   Reform & Revolution in China, 1800-1949   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores China's attempt to adjust to the complex
transformations in its economy, society, politics and intellectual life
initiated during the early modern period and transﬁgured into crisis
proportions by unchecked demographic growth. These challenges were
heightened and made more acute by the often hostile encounter with ﬁrst
the West and then Japan through the end of World War II.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Chinese Language & Culture, Global
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST345/ASIA345/INTS372   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to describe and assess the numerous evolutionary
and revolutionary strategies for change during the period in China under
discussion
HIST 346C   History of Christianity in China   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course will cover the encounter between China and Christianity,
from 7th century Nestorian monks, 12th century Franciscan Missions,
16th century Jesuit missionaries, Christianity in the period of Western
imperialism, the expulsion of Western missionaries after the 1949
Communist revolution, and the formation of underground churches.
Develop critical, writing, and research skills. Deepen understanding of
Christianity as a world religion, the history of China, Christianity in China,
and historical ties between China and The West.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Catholic Studies, Chinese
Language & Culture, Global Studies   
HIST 347A   China Since 1949: The People's Republic   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the attempt to create and foster the growth of a
socialist state and society in China under the Chinese Communis t Party,
with attention to the steady transformation of society, the economy, and
political life since 1949.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Chinese Language & Culture, Global
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST346/ASIA346/INTS373   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to assess the major convulsive episodes such
as land reform, the Great Leap Forward, the Great Proletarian Cultural
Revolution, the Four Modernizations, and the impact and legacy of Mao
Zedong
HIST 347C   Cultural Revolution-China   (3 Credit Hours)   
The Great Proletarian Cultural Revolution (1966-1976) was a watershed in
China's modern history. Over the course of a decade, Mao summoned the
populace to battle "bourgeoisie" of the state by attacking various parts of
the social, cultural and political structure.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Chinese Language & Culture, Global
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST346B/ASIA346B/INTS346B   
Outcomes:
Students will examine the Cultural Revolution from the perspectives of
political, social, and cultural history, utilizing memoirs, oral histories,
documentary and dramatized ﬁlms, primary documents written by
China's party leaders, and scholarly writings; come to understand these
events not solely from the hindsight of post-reform China, but from the
perspective of the times during which these events unfolded; and develop
their own understandings of what these years meant for the shaping of
modern China's state, economy, institutions, and citizensHIST 347D   Modern Chinese History through Film   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course presents Chinese modern History through the lens of feature
ﬁlms and documentaries. Through a chronological approach, it focuses
on the period from the Opium Wars to the present. It discusses political
struggles, economic shifts, the encounter with Western Imperialism, the
birth of Communist China, the shift to a market economy; it focuses on
issues of war, gender, society, rural versus urban, and the environment.
Acquire a non-Western Historical perspective; understand diversity in the
World; be conversant in modern Chinese History; connect those notions
to the historical development of the West; understand ﬁlm theory and
practice.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Chinese Language & Culture, Film &
Digital Media Studies, Global Studies, International Film & Media Studies   
HIST 349   Contemporary Global Issues: Historical Perspectives   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course will introduce students to important contemporary issues
such as globalization, resurgent ethnic and religious strife, racism,
imperialism, and the crisis of the nation state, among others. Both
thematic and chronological approaches will be employed in examining
selected world regions.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  HIST299BCDE/INTS298   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the way history
shapes pressing issues in the contemporary world, the way a historical
approach helps make sense of these same issues, and the value of
comparative study and analysis across time and place
HIST 349A   Women in East Asia   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course studies the lives of Asian women in China, Japan, and Korea
from early modern times to the present by examining changing roles of
women and how these changes have come about.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies, Japanese Language
and Culture, Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST296/ASIA296/INTS296/WOST   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to explain how life reflects law in the political, social,
economic and cultural history of Asian women; how imperialism and war
have affected women; how women have effected change
HIST 350   Colonial Latin America   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will introduce students to the major themes in the colonial
history of the region known today as Latin America from conquest to
independence.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Latin American Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST352/LASP350   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the following
broad themes: the nature and difﬁculties of colonial rule in culturally
diverse societies; the different ways in which individuals from all walks of
life fared in the colonies; and the role that religion and the church played
in everyday life

--- Page 133 ---
164  College of Arts and Sciences
HIST 351   Latin American Independence, 1750-1830   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines independence movements and wars in the region
known today as Latin America. Course readings and lectures will explore
the impact of the Enlightenment on Bourbon Spain and Spanish America,
new movements toward free trade, friction between the church and state,
and crown policies toward indigenous peoples.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Latin American Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST353/LASP351   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the basic
contours of independence movements in Latin America
HIST 352   Latin America in the 19th Century   (3 Credit Hours)   
This is a survey course that introduces students to the history of Latin
America during the nineteenth century through two: 1) Nation Formation:
1780s-1850s and 2) Liberal Reforms and Progress: 1850s-1910.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Latin American Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST354/LASP352   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the persistence of
political instability, the problems of economic development, and elite and
popular perceptions of race, class, and gender; Students will also be able
to draw comparisons between different Latin American experiences
HIST 353   Latin America in Recent Times   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines major political, cultural and socio-economic
developments in Latin America from the twentieth century to today.
Topics to be covered include nationalism and revolution, military
dictatorship and state oppression, and hemispheric relations.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Latin American Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST355/INTS389/LASP353   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate a broad understanding of the
impetus behind the following events and themes: the Mexican Revolution
of 1910; Castro and the Cuban Revolution; Peronism; Dirty Wars in Chile,
Argentina and Central America; Cold War politics and CIA operations; and
the current Drug War in Colombia
HIST 355   The Caribbean & Central America in Colonial/Modern Times   (3
Credit Hours)   
This course examines the Caribbean and Central America from European
conquest and colonization to the present day.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Latin American Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST356/INTS380/LASP354   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the signiﬁcance of the
Caribbean and Central America region in world, but especially US, politics
since the nineteenth century and increasingly during the Cold War;
Students will demonstrate an ability to draw comparisons and contrasts
between nations in these regions, especially as they relate to the rest of
Latin America and the United States
HIST 356   Mexican History-Ancient to Modern Times   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will introduce students to the major themes in Mexican
history from pre-Columbian to contemporary times based on three
historical periods: Early Mexico, the Nineteenth Century, and Recent
Mexico.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Latin American Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST357/INTS379/LASP355   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an ability to draw on the major
themes in Mexico history as they relate to the Aztec empire, Spanish
conquest and colonialism, independence, modernization, revolution, and
democratizationHIST 357   The Mexican Revolution in Popular Imagination   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course explores debates about the Mexican Revolution (1910-1917)
by analyzing its interpretation in scholarship and its representations in
memoir, ﬁction, art and ﬁlm.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Latin American Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the Mexican Revolution
as an event and as a myth in history and popular culture
HIST 358   Women in Latin American History   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces students to the life experiences of women in Latin
America through history, ﬁlm, oral history, and their personal narratives.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Latin American Studies, Women &
Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  HIS358/INT368/LASP299/WSGS385   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the way notions of
femininity have been constructed and have changed over time throughout
Latin American history, the various and sometimes subtle ways that
women have empowered themselves, and the more overt politicization of
women since the mid-twentieth century
HIST 359   Teaching World History   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on pedagogical approaches, curricular analysis, and
methodological developments in the ﬁeld of World (or Global) history.
Students will become familiar with world history by developing a syllabus
for a course they may teach in the future at the high school or college
level.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
HIST 359C   Nationalist Politics: A Global Perspective   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course traces the origins and different forms of nationalism,
discussing the establishment of nation-states in Europe and the
escalation of nationalist conflicts across the globe, from the Balkans
to the Middle East to Latin America. It explores how nationalism
affected relations between states and various populations and ethnic
communities. Students will acquire factual knowledge (terminology,
classiﬁcation, structures) and theoretical frameworks (methods and
debates) about the origins and global spread of nationalism.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
HIST 359D   The Ottoman Empire: A Global Perspective   (3 Credit Hours)   
The main themes of the course include rise and development of the
Ottoman Empire; relations between Muslims, Jews, Christians, and
other communities; the practices of inclusion and exclusion along class,
gender, and ethno-religious lines; the rise of nationalism; experiences of
violence and war; and imperial legacies in post-Ottoman states.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Interreligious and Interfaith
Studies, Islamic World Studies   
Outcomes:
Gain factual knowledge; Learn to analyze different ideas and texts
HIST 359E   Concentration Camps: A Global History   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores the underlying logic of extrajudicial encampment
from the camps of 19th-century colonialism to the Soviet Gulag, Nazi
death camps, and more contemporary detention centers for refugees
and political prisoners. Why have modern states - across the ideological
spectrum - made use of camps against real and perceived enemies?
Students will understand the underlying political, racial, and economic
motives that lead to concentration camps. A transnational approach will
help students contextualize speciﬁc camp regimes within a larger global
history.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   

--- Page 134 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 165
HIST 359F   Genocides in the Modern World   (3 Credit Hours)   
This class evaluates the motives and circumstances of global genocides
and uncovers the experiences of those targeted by genocidal violence.
The course will range widely from settler colonial violence in the
Americas to the Armenian Genocide, the Holocaust, the Khmer Rouge,
Rwanda, ISIL, and beyond.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Race and Ethnicity   
Outcomes:
Students will compare and contrast global genocides across space and
time, evaluate the conﬁgurations of twentieth-century politics that have
generated multiple genocides, and hone critical reading and writing skills
HIST 359H   Anti-Colonial Resistance in the Twentieth Century   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course will explore the end of modern colonialism and the
emergence of nation-states in Africa and Asia: one of the most signiﬁcant
transformations in modern history. It will consider how imperial agents
justiﬁed their subjugation of colonized peoples and how colonial objects
came to resist and end colonial rule. Students will learn about theoretical,
political, and historical explanations about the processes of resistance
and decolonization. Further, they will develop critical analysis skills and
historical knowledge.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies, Islamic World
Studies   
HIST 360   Community and Culture in Colonial America   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course covers the story of America's colonial past from its origins in
the Atlantic world of the 16th century through its contact and conflicts
with Native American peoples.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the process of colonial
settlement, colonial labor and economic patterns, trans-Atlantic
immigration, Colonial Wars of Empire and the conquest of native lands
HIST 360A   Slavery and Abolition: Then & Now   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will ﬁrst examine the history of slavery in the ancient and
medieval eras, but is devoted mainly to the rise and maturation of slavery
and slave trading in the Atlantic world (ca. 1500-1865). The last third of
the class charts the resurgence of post-abolition slavery.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Race and Ethnicity   
Outcomes:
Students will learn about slavery past and present to fashion a moral
philosophy of human freedom that can make a world without slavery a
reality
HIST 361   The American Revolution, 1763-1815   (3 Credit Hours)   
When British colonists in North America declared themselves
independent from the British Crown in 1776, they affected the most
successful revolution in modern history. This course covers the
antecedents and outcomes of their actions from the Seven Years War
through the American Revolution to the War of 1812.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the origins, actions and
signiﬁcance of the American Revolution; the development of the United
States Constitution; and the development of the nation up the War of
1812
HIST 362   America in the Age of Slavery and Capitalism   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course covers United States social, cultural, economic, and political
development during the ﬁrst half of the nineteenth century.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of how Modern America was
built between 1800 and 1850 through the study of urban development,
immigration, gender history, educational developments, wars of
expansion, and the growth of a democratic societyHIST 363   Civil War & Reconstruction 1850-1877   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course covers the crisis of the Union from the Compromise of 1850
through the Civil War and the era of Reconstruction.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST363/BWS 363   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the institution o f slavery,
the rise of abolitionist sentiment, the failure of democratic political
institutions, the military history of the war, its cultural impact on the
nation, and the struggle for racial justice in the Reconstruction era
HIST 366A   World War I and American Culture   (3 Credit Hours)   
Although World War I's impact on America paled in comparison to that of
the European combatants, the wartime experiences affected the nation's
economic, political, and cultural life for the remainder of the twentieth
century. This course examines America's World War I experience and
explores its legacy.
Outcomes:
Students will understand how the United States underwent the
transformation from a relatively minor player on the international
scene to an international presence, how those living through these
years experienced social, cultural, economic, and political challenges
associated with American life in the twentieth century; and how the roads
taken and not taken during this period have shaped the options available
to us today
HIST 367   United States from Great Depression to Recession   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course focuses on American history from 1929 to the present,
a period of economic turmoil, domestic reform, and international
engagement.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Sociolegal Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate historical knowledge of the politics and
government of the United States since the start of the Great Depression
and develop critical thinking and communication skills
HIST 369   20th Century Popular Culture   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the social and cultural patterns of twentieth
century life as revealed in popular novels, vaudeville, movies, music,
nightlife, and advertising.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate historical knowledge of American
traditions of success, family, home, consumption and culture, to draw
links between gender and social life, and to develop critical thinking and
communication skills
HIST 370   American Business, Wealth, and Inequality   (3 Credit Hours)   
Beginning with colonization and extending to the 2000s global expansion
of Starbucks, this course outlines the history of American business,
wealth, and the attendant inequality by exploring the interplay between
business, labor, politics, and culture.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Sociolegal Studies, Sociolegal Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will improve their written communication skills; develop their
critical thinking skills; and learn how to execute historical analysis

--- Page 135 ---
166  College of Arts and Sciences
HIST 372   American Constitutional & Legal History to 1865   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course focuses on the constitutional and legal history of the U. S.
from colonial times to the end of the Civil War.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate historical knowledge of American
legal traditions of common law, federalism, and civil liberties, to draw
links between social and legal change; to evaluate US Supreme Court
decisions, and to develop critical thinking and communication skills
HIST 373   US Law & Public Policy   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the constitutional, legal, & public poli cy history of
the U. S. from the end of the Civil War to the twenty-ﬁrst century
Interdisciplinary Option:  Sociolegal Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of American legal traditions of
federalism, civil rights, criminal justice, and civil liberties; understand
social, legal, & policy changes; and evaluate US Supreme Court decisions
HIST 373A   Crime and Punishment   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines how notions of crime and punishment have
evolved between the nineteenth and twentieth centuries (with the early
modern period serving as a backdrop).
Interdisciplinary Option:  Sociolegal Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST373A/CRMJ345   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to draw conclusions on what precisely caused
the shifts in punishment, with attention to such things as the
professionalization of the judiciary, industrialization and urbanization, the
American Civil War, and Constitutional changes; Students will also gain
an understanding of sociological and anthropological approaches to this
topic
HIST 374   Black Politics   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will present a general overview of black politics in America,
including the major black political ideologies and their theoretical
underpinnings and the role of race in urban politics in the late twentieth
and early twenty-ﬁrst centuries.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Race
and Ethnicity, African Studies and the African Diaspora, Race and
Ethnicity   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST374/PLSC393/BWS374   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of how the circumstances of
Reconstruction shaped black political ideologies; how blacks came into
political power in major urban centers; and what the contours of debate
are in the black community over provocative issues such as the criminal
justice system, afﬁrmative action, reparations, and education
HIST 375   Digital History   (3 Credit Hours)   
Digital resources make primary source material available while
database, mapping, and text-mining applications allow us to ask new
types of research questions. Digital history is more than just gaining
familiarity with digital resources, applications, and platforms; it is about
understanding how using these tools has changed the way we study
history.
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST375/LASP375/INTS375A   
Outcomes:
Gain an introductory technical knowledge of digital tools or methods;
Learn to apply technical knowledge about digital history tools to
historical questions; Acquire experience managing and creating a team-
based digital humanitiesHIST 376   History of the American Frontier Movement   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will cover the process of frontier expansion in American
history.
Outcomes:
Students will understand the frontier as a social process that was part
of the American experience from its earliest colonial origins to the end
of the nineteenth century; Students will also understand the frontier
as a place in the western United States where Americans engaged in
cooperation, conflict, and conquest with native peoples, Mexicans, and
Asians
HIST 376A   History of the American Indian   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a survey of the history of American Indians, including the
variety of Pre-Columbian societies, the encounter between Indians and
European settlers, the impact of Eurasian diseases, American Indians'
ﬁght to avoid removal from their homelands, and the resurgence of
Indians as sovereign peoples.
Outcomes:
The student is to emerge from the course with an enhanced ability to
appreciate the unique cultures and experiences of American Indians;
appreciate the many and important ways in which Indian peoples have
changed and adapted over time; and understand the religious, racial,
and cultural values that motivated European-American policies toward
American Indians
HIST 377   African American Women's History   (3 Credit Hours)   
Course deepens students' understanding of African American Hist ory
by emphasizing African American women's leadership, intellectualism,
challenges, and social impact. Covering multiple eras from slavery, the
civil rights movement to the present-day and difﬁcult topics (including
sexual assault), the course examines the diverse experiences of
historically marginalized black women.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies, Women & Gender
Studies   
Outcomes:
Students become familiar with multiple important African American
historical ﬁgures; increase their understanding of intersectionality (race,
gender, sexuality, class) in American history; and gain essential research
skills
HIST 378   Latina/o History   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces the history of Latinos in the United States from
the Spanish Colonial period to the present.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Latin American Studies, Race and Ethnicity   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST378/LASP378   
Outcomes:
students will develop a greater appreciation and understanding of the
important roles played by Latino men and women in U.S. society; the
heterogeneity of the Latina/o population, including generational, regional,
class, and gender divisions; and the formation of transnational immigrant
communities
HIST 379A   Italian Americans in World War II   (3 Credit Hours)   
The impact of World War II on Italian-Americans and their roles in the war
effort. Topics include influence of Fascism in the U.S., classiﬁcation of
Italian-Americans as "ENEMY ALIENS, " participation of Italian-Americans
on the home front and as OSS members, and lasting impact of GI
experience and the GI Bill.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Italian American Studies, Italian Studies   
Outcomes:
To understand and analyze the effect that World War II had upon Italian-
Americans as a community and representative ethnic group, drawing on
detailed knowledge of World War II history

--- Page 136 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 167
HIST 379B   History of Italians in Chicago   (3 Credit Hours)   
The History of Italians in Chicago offers an in-depth look at one of
Chicago's important ethnic groups. The course will utilize local resources
and include a number of guest speakers from the ﬁelds of sociology,
literature and political science.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Italian American Studies, Italian Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the major social-economic forces shaping
the history of Italians in Chicago; learn how to do primary research; see
themselves and local institutions as a part of history
HIST 380   Introduction to African-American History   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a general survey of African-American history from its
African origins to the Present.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Race
and Ethnicity   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST380/BWS 380   
Outcomes:
Upon completion of this class students should have a broad
understanding of African-American History from 17th to the early 21st
century
HIST 380A   Islam in the African-American Experience   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course traces the development of Islam among African Americans
from West African societies prior to the trans-Atlantic slave trade to the
influence of Islam on popular culture in the 21st century.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Islamic
World Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST380A/BWS302/IWS380   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of how Islamic identity was
maintained in the face of slavery, how and if African-American Muslim
communities differ from their emigrant counterparts, and how black
nationalist groups such as the Moorish Science Temple and Nation of
Islam influenced the Islamization of black consciousness in the 20th
century
HIST 381   Rebels & Reformers in U.S. History   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores the success and failure of radical political and social
movements in the United States.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Peace,
Justice, and Conflict Studies, Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  HIST381/AFR388/PAX387/WSGS303   
Outcomes:
Students will understand ﬁve major movements for social change in the
United States: abolition, women's rights, socialism, peace, and the quest
for racial equality
HIST 382   Teaching Race, Class, and Gender   (3 Credit Hours)   
What resources are there for future K-12 teachers wanting to explore the
intersections of gender, race, ethnicity, and class into their classrooms
and meet new requirements, like those in Chicago, to broaden the K-12
curriculum? This course is designed for primary and secondary education
majors eager to explore digital resources.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Italian American Studies, Latin American Studies,
Sociolegal Studies, Women & Gender Studies, Italian American Studies,
Latin American Studies, Sociolegal Studies, Women & Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will: discover a range of free, digital resources; hone their
critical reading and writing skills; craft and share lesson plans and
reflections; write and present a peer-reviewed research paperHIST 384   Irish Diaspora in America   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the origins and diversity of Irish migration to the
United States since the eighteenth century.
Outcomes:
Students will use historical knowledge to develop critical thinking and
communications skills about the ﬁrst large American ethnic minority and
its impact on the history of the United States
HIST 385   Chicago in America   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course surveys the history of Chicago from its origins to the present,
using the city as a case study of American urbanization.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Urban Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST385/URB385   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate historical knowledge of Ch icago's
environmental, economic, social, cultural, and political history, to draw
links between race relations and urban change, and to develop critical
thinking and communication skills
HIST 386   Creation the American Metropolis   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the transformation of the United States from a
simple agrarian and small-town society to a complex urban and suburban
nation, covering the pre-Columbian period to the present.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Urban Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST386/URB386   
Outcomes:
Study history of American urbanization; improve writing and analytical
thinking
HIST 388   U.S. Wars   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will study United States Military history from the
Revolutionary War to the War on Terror. We will study key battles,
strategy, weapons and leaders. We will also focus on the individual
soldier: his pay, recreation, beneﬁts and equipment.
Outcomes:
Students will gain familiarity with the military aspects of warfare in U.S.
history and the social aspects of warfare; They will be challenged to
integrate those varying perspectives into a coherent synthesis of the
topic
HIST 388A   Vietnam War   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course offers a comprehensive examination of origin, execution, and
failure of America's war in Vietnam.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST/ASIA/PAX389/INTS388   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the ancient origins of the Vietnamese nation,
the rise and fall of the French colonial regime, the role of Vietnam in the
Cold War, the peace movement, the political and cultural impact of the
war on America, the success and failures of the United States military, the
impact of the war on the Indo-China region, and the memory of the war in
American culture
HIST 389B   Topic: Gender, Race, & Class in US History   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the historical interplay of gender, race and class in
the lives of African-American and white women in the United States.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Race and Ethnicity, Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST295/PAX295/WSGS299   
Outcomes:
Students will understand critical themes and periods in the development
of racism and sexism, especially the ways in which the two relate;
differences and similarities in the manifestations of and reactions to
racism and sexism in the lives and thought of African-American and white
women of differing class backgrounds

--- Page 137 ---
168  College of Arts and Sciences
HIST 389C   Gender Benders   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the changes in gender roles and the relationship
between men and women from the colonial era to the present.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST294/WOST290/WSGS294   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of the changing expectations
about and deﬁnitions of men and women of how families were organized,
how childrearing was handled, who made up the home, and how work and
family production followed a sexual division of labor
HIST 389F   The Sixties   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the turbulent years from 1960 to 1974 in
American history, a period of active social movements and foreign wars.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate historical knowledge of American
social, political, gender, and cultural change during the 1960s, to draw
links between popular mobilizations, countercultures, and social change,
and to develop critical thinking and communication skills
HIST 389K   Autobiography and Memoir in Recent US History   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Autobiography and Memoir in Recent US History uses personal
recollections as a way to get at large themes in history. Topics include
immigration, nativism, ethnicity, gender, regionalism, war, religion,
and class. Students read intensively as a way of understanding how
individuals live their lives within large historical forces and events. This is
a writing intensive course. It is also a reading intensive course. It is run as
a seminar - learning to discuss and engage with ideas is a key element.
HIST 389N   Anti-Immigrant Politics in U.S. History   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course features studies of anti-immigrant politics sponsored by: 1.
the Federalist Party (late 18th c); 2. the "Know Nothing" Party (mid-19th
c); 3. the Populist Party (late 19th c); 4. the Ku Klux Klan (1920s); 5. the
Republican Party (early 21st c).
Interdisciplinary Option:  Italian American Studies, Latin American Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will use historical perspective to deconstruct the rhetoric and
analyze the socio-economic and political contexts of past and present
nativist political movements
HIST 389W   Races to the White House: Presidential History   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course aims to show how the president's election, job, power, and
mystique has changed since the Founding. Students will delve into the
modern primary and party system's origins, the ﬁerce debates about the
Electoral College, the controversies over executive power, the media's
importance, and the ﬁrst families' changing role.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Sociolegal Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain historical knowledge of the American presidency,
federalism, and electoral politics and develop critical thinking and
communication skills
HIST 390   Senior Capstone   (3 Credit Hours)   
Each participant will utilize the research skills, historical studies and
writing abilities acquired to date to produce a signiﬁcant paper based
largely on historical research in primary sources and bolstered by
appropriate secondary sources. Restricted to students in senior standing.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate appropriate historical scholarship,
analysis and writing skillsHIST 397   History Honors Tutorial   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students in this course will produce a signiﬁcant research paper on a
topic of their own choice (25-30 pages) based largely on primary sources
through archival research and will present their work in a symposium at
the end of the course.
Course equivalencies:  HIST397H / HIST397   
HIST 398   History Internship   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides three hours credit for students engaged in history
related internships in the public and private sectors.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to obtain an internship position, to learn on-the-
job from an experienced practitioner in a wide variety of public and
private sector settings, to draw links between their present situation and
historical research, and to develop critical thinking and communication
skills
HIST 399   Directed Study   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides students with the opportunity to work under the
direction of a faculty member on a particular area of interest that is not
part of the department's usual curriculum.
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of a speciﬁc area of history through
the close reading of selected texts and the preparation of a research
paper
Hindi (HNDI)
HNDI 100   Urdu Script   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
A course in the script for Urdu, the national language of Pakistan and
much of Muslim India.
Course equivalencies:  HNDI100/ASIA100U/IWS100U   
HNDI 101   Hindi-Urdu I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to the two sister languages, Hindi and
Urdu. No previous knowledge of either language is assumed. It also
introduces the Devanagari script in which Hindi is written.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Islamic World Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HNDI101/ASIAHU1/IWS101U   
Outcomes:
Students will be introduced to the spoken language and the script in
which the majority of native speakers write the language
HNDI 102   Hindi-Urdu II   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is for students who have a basic knowledge of either spoken
Hindi or Urdu, but do not read or write in Hindi. The course emphasizes
the ability to read and write the script and the acquisition of basic
grammatical structures and vocabulary.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Islamic World Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HNDI102/ASIAHU2/IWS102U   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to develop basic proﬁciency in the language and will
be able to speak, read and write in simple sentences at the elementary
level

--- Page 138 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 169
HNDI 103   Hindi-Urdu III   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is for students who have an elementary to intermediate
knowledge of either spoken Hindi or Urdu but do no read or write in Hindi.
The course emphasizes the ability to read and write in the script and the
acquisition of formal grammar and vocabulary.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Islamic World Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HNDI103/ASIAHU3/IWS103U   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to develop better understanding of grammatical
structures and usage; Students will develop more proﬁciency in reading
and writing the language at the intermediate level
HNDI 104   Hindi-Urdu IV   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course is a continuation of 103 and emphasizes the ability to
read and write in the script and the acquisition of formal grammar and
vocabulary.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Islamic World Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HNDI104/ASIAHU4/IWS104U   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to develop better understanding of grammatical
structures and usage; Students will develop more proﬁciency in reading
and writing the language at the intermediate level
Honors (HONR)
HONR D101   Developments Western Thought I Discussion   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This is the discussion section that complements the Honors Freshman
lecture course on the Western Intellectual Traditions: Antiquity to the
Middle Ages. All students enrolled in HONR 101 must also be enrolled in a
section of HONR D101.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HONRD101/CATH101D   
HONR D102   Developments in Historical Western Thought II
Discussion   (3 Credit Hours)   
This is the discussion section that complements the Honors Freshman
lecture course on the Western Intellectual Traditions: the Renaissance to
Modernism. All students enrolled in HONR 102 must also be enrolled in a
section of HONR D102.
HONR 101   Western Traditions - Antiquity to the Middle Ages   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course,(and its companion, HONR 102), opens perspectives on
works that have shaped the self-understanding of the Western intellectual
tradition. An interdisciplinary team of professors examines these
works from a variety of disciplinary paradigms. Students will examine
the recurring questions the works pose to each other and to our own
culture: questions about the nature of human existence and destiny,
and the characteristic problems and possibilities of humanity's struggle
for justice, search for truth and hunger for beauty. These courses are
structured as three hours of lecture and three hours of seminar each
semester.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HONR10/CATH102   
Outcomes:
Studying a selection of major works from antiquity to the present,
students learn how each text reflects its own period, how texts within
each period present different views, and how ideas change over time;
Written and visual expressions of these themes are examined in relation
to the political and cultural background of each period: Ancient Greece
and Rome, the Middle Ages, the Renaissance, the Enlightenment, the
Romantic Period and modernismHONR 102   Western Traditions-Renaissance to Modernity   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course (and its companion, HONR 101) opens perspectives on works
that have shaped the self-understanding of the West. An interdisciplinary
team of professors examines these works from a variety of disciplinary
paradigms. Students will examine the recurring questions the works
pose to each other and to our own culture: questions about the nature
of human existence and destiny, and the characteristic problems and
possibilities of humanity's struggle for justice, search for truth and
hunger for beauty. These courses are structured as three hours of lecture
and three hours of seminar each semester.
Outcomes:
Studying a selection of major works from antiquity to the present,
students learn how each text reflects its own period, how texts within
each period present different views, and how ideas change over time;
Written and visual expressions of these themes are examined in relation
to the political and cultural background of each period: Ancient Greece
and Rome, the Middle Ages, the Renaissance, the Enlightenment, the
Romantic Period and modernism
HONR 203   The United States Experience   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, HONR D102   
Restricted to students in the Honors Program This course examines the
formation and development of the United States. Focusing on selected
topics, students learn how much is at stake in competing versions of
the past. Students read influential political, literary and historical texts.
Professors will introduce students to various ways of understanding the
United States experience.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the various
ways in which the distinctive U.S. experience has been presented;
Students will learn to use available public sources to conduct research on
aspects of the American experience
HONR 203A   The United States Experience   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102   
Restricted to students in the Honors Program. This course examines
the question, "Who are we in the United States of America?" Students
approach this question using multiple texts and visual materials that
address social, political, and cultural aspects of the U.S. experience.
The course illustrates the main contours of American society and the
American story and explores the ways in which our self-image as a
people reflects and contradicts reality.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Historical Knowledge   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the role of key historical processes such as the
frontier experience, industrialization, immigration, religious pluralism, and
the struggle for equality in the development of a distinctive American
story; They will learn to use available public sources to conduct research
on aspects of the American experience

--- Page 139 ---
170  College of Arts and Sciences
HONR 203B   The United States Experience   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102   
Restricted to students in the Honors Program. This course examines
the question, "Who are we in the United States of America?" Students
approach this question using multiple texts and visual materials that
address social, political, and cultural aspects of the U.S. experience.
The course illustrates the main contours of American society and the
American story and explores the ways in which our self-image as a
people reflects and contradicts reality.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the role of key social processes such as the
frontier experience, industrialization, immigration, religious pluralism, and
the struggle for equality in the development of a distinctive American
story; They will learn to use available public sources to conduct research
on aspects of the American experience
HONR 203C   The United States Experience   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102   
Restricted to students in the Honors Program. This course examines
the question, "Who are we in the United States of America?" Students
explore the multiple ways in which key American experiences such as the
western expansion, industrialization, immigration, religious pluralism, and
the struggle for equality are reflected in its ﬁction and drama.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the various
ways in which the distinctive U.S. experience has been presented in its
literature; they will be able to analyze and defend interpretations of a
variety of literary texts
HONR 204   Science and Society   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Prerequisite HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, HONR
D102   
Restricted to Honors students. Students will examine the ways natural
science and social science address a particular issue as well as the
effects of science on society. They will study scientiﬁc ways of knowing
and organizing knowledge, and demonstrate the capacity to make
reasoned and ethical judgments about the impact of science on society.
Outcomes:
Students will learn scientiﬁc principles and methods of producing
knowledge and to make reasoned and ethical judgments about the
impact of science on the individual, community and society
HONR 204A   Science and Society   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Restricted to Honors students   
Students will examine the ways natural science and social science
address particular issues as well as the effects of science on society.
They will study the history of science and scientiﬁc ways of knowing, and
demonstrate the capacity to make reasoned and ethical judgments about
the impact of science on society.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Historical Knowledge   
Outcomes:
Students will learn the history of scientiﬁc principles and methods of
producing knowledge and to make reasoned and ethical judgments about
the impact of science on the individual, community and societyHONR 204B   Science and Society   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102   
Restricted to students in the Honors Program. Students will examine the
ways natural science and social science address a particular issue as
well as the effects of science on society. They will study scientiﬁc ways
of knowing and organizing knowledge, and demonstrate the capacity to
make reasoned and ethical judgments about the impact of science on
society.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Outcomes:
Students will learn scientiﬁc principles and methods of producing
knowledge and to make reasoned and ethical judgments about the
impact of science on the individual, community and society
HONR 204D   Science and Society   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102   
Restricted to students in the Honors Program. Students will examine the
ways natural science and social science address a particular issue as
well as the effects of science on society. They will learn scientiﬁc ways
of knowing and organizing knowledge and demonstrate the capacity to
make reasoned and ethical judgments about the impact of science on
society.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Scientiﬁc Knowledge   
Outcomes:
Students will learn scientiﬁc principles and methods of producing
knowledge and to make reasoned and ethical judgments about the
impact of science on the individual, community and society
HONR 204E   Science and Society   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102   
Restricted to students in the Honors Program. Students will examine the
ways natural science and social science address a particular issue as
well as the effects of science on society. They will learn scientiﬁc ways
of knowing and organizing knowledge, and demonstrate the capacity to
make reasoned and ethical judgments about the impact of science on
society.
Knowledge Area:  Quantitative Knowledge   
Outcomes:
Students will learn quantitative methods of producing knowledge and to
make reasoned and ethical judgments about the impact of science on the
individual, community and society
HONR 208   Encountering Latin America and the Caribbean   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102   
Restricted to students in the Honors Program. This course introduces
students to the history and culture of selected nations of Latin America
and the Caribbean. Students will study signiﬁcant ideas and events
that have shaped this area. These might include indigenous cultures,
colonization, slavery, race relations, independence and revolutionary
movements, economic dependency and political instability.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the relationships among cultural, economic,
political, and social forces, and their impact on human behavior; Students
will become aware of variations in human values and behavior, ideas of
justice, and shared understandings in unfamiliar cultures

--- Page 140 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 171
HONR 208A   Encountering Latin America and the Caribbean   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102   
Restricted to students in the Honors Program. This course introduces
students to the history and culture of selected nations of Latin America
and the Caribbean. Students will study signiﬁcant ideas and events
that have shaped this area. These might include indigenous cultures,
colonization, slavery, race relations, independence and revolutionary
movements, economic dependency and political instability. Students
will understand the relationships among cultural, economic, political,
and social forces, and their impact on human behavior. They will become
aware of variations in human values and behavior, ideas of justice, and
shared understandings in unfamiliar cultures.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Historical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
HONR 208B   Encountering Latin America and the Caribbean   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102   
This course introduces students to the history and culture of selected
nations of Latin America and the Caribbean. Students will study
signiﬁcant ideas and events that have shaped this area. These might
include indigenous cultures, colonization, slavery, race relations,
independence and revolutionary movements, economic dependency and
political instability. Restricted to students in the Honors Program.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the relationships among cultural, economic,
political, and social forces, and their impact on human behavior; They
will become aware of variations in human values and behavior, ideas of
justice, and shared understandings in unfamiliar cultures
HONR 208C   Encountering Latin America and the Caribbean   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102; Restricted to students in the Honors Program   
This course introduces students to the literature of selected nations
of Latin America and the Caribbean. Students will study the multiple
ways in which indigenous cultures, colonization, slavery, race relations,
independence and revolutionary movements, economic dependency and
political instability are reflected in the region's ﬁction and drama.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the various
ways in which human identities and values have been presented in
literature; they will be able to analyze and defend interpretations of a
variety of literary textsHONR 209   Encountering Asia   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102; Restricted to students in the Honors Program   
This course will introduce students to various regions in Asia and some
of the fundamental components of Asian civilizations as they have
evolved historically and persist in the modern world. Regions might
include East, South and Southeast Asia.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will learn different methods of interpreting cultural, economic,
political, and social forces, and their impact on human behavior; Students
will become aware of variations in human identities and values, ideas of
justice, and shared understandings in unfamiliar cultures
HONR 209A   Encountering Asia   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102; Restricted to students in the Honors Program   
This course will introduce students to various regions in Asia and some
of the fundamental components of Asian civilizations as they have
evolved historically and persist in the modern world. Regions might
include East, South and Southeast Asia.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Historical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will learn different methods of interpreting cultural, economic,
political, and social forces, and their impact on human behavior; They
will become aware of variations in human identities and values, ideas of
justice, and shared understandings in unfamiliar cultures
HONR 209B   Encountering Asia   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102; Restricted to students in the Honors Program   
This course will introduce students to various regions in Asia and some
of the fundamental components of Asian civilizations as they have
evolved historically and persist in the modern world. Regions might
include East, South and Southeast Asia.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will learn different methods of interpreting cultural, economic,
political, and social forces, and their impact on human behavior; They
will become aware of variations in human identities and values, ideas of
justice, and shared understandings in unfamiliar cultures
HONR 209C   Encountering Asia   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102; Restricted to students in the Honors Program   
This course will introduce students to the literature of various regions in
Asia. Students read representative literary texts, exploring cross-cultural
linkages and influences within Asia as a whole as well the dist inctive
characteristics of individual societies.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the various
ways in which human identities and values have been presented in
literature; they will be able to analyze and defend interpretations of a
variety of literary texts

--- Page 141 ---
172  College of Arts and Sciences
HONR 210   Encountering Africa   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102; Restricted to students in the Honors Program   
This course introduces students to various regions in Africa and some
of the fundamental components of African civilizations as they have
evolved historically and persist in the modern world. These might include
classical African civilizations, origins of the slave trade, agriculture,
ethnicities, colonialism, nationalism, the modern state.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Islamic World Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will learn different methods of interpreting cultural, economic,
political, and social forces, and their impact on human behavior; Students
will become aware of variations in human identities and values, ideas of
justice, and shared understandings in unfamiliar cultures
HONR 210A   Encountering Africa   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102; Restricted to students in the Honors Program   
This course introduces students to various regions in Africa and some
of the fundamental components of African civilizations as they have
evolved historically and persist in the modern world. These might include
classical African civilizations, origins of the slave trade, agriculture,
ethnicities, colonialism, nationalism, the modern state.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Historical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Islamic World Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will learn different methods of interpreting cultural, economic,
political, and social forces, and their impact on human behavior; They
will become aware of variations in human identities and values, ideas of
justice, and shared understandings in unfamiliar cultures
HONR 210B   Encountering Africa   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102; Restricted to students in the Honors Program   
This course introduces students to various regions in Africa and some
of the fundamental components of African civilizations as they have
evolved historically and persist in the modern world. These might include
classical African civilizations, origins of the slave trade, agriculture,
ethnicities, colonialism, nationalism, the modern state.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Islamic World Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will learn different methods of interpreting cultural, economic,
political, and social forces, and their impact on human behavior; They
will become aware of variations in human identities and values, ideas of
justice, and shared understandings in unfamiliar cultures
HONR 210C   Encountering Africa   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102; Restricted to students in the Honors Program   
This course introduces students to the literature of various regions
in Africa. Topics might include the multiple ways in which classical
African civilizations, the slave trade, agriculture, ethnicities, colonialism,
nationalism, the modern state are reflected in the region's ﬁction or
drama.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Islamic World Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the various
ways in which human identities and values have been presented in
literature; they will be able to analyze and defend interpretations of a
variety of literary textsHONR 212   Encountering the Middle East   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102; Restricted to students in the Honors Program   
This course introduces students to various regions in the Middle East and
some of the components of selected civilizations in this region as they
have evolved historically and persist in the modern world. Topics might
include monotheistic religions, the Ottoman Empire, Islamic culture,
creation of the modern system of states after the First World War, the
place of women in Middle Eastern societies, urban and rural cul tures, the
political and economic consequences of water scarcity and oil wealth.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Islamic World Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will learn different methods of interpreting cultural, economic,
political, and social forces, and their impact on human behavior; Students
will become aware of variations in human identities and values, ideas of
justice, and methods of interpretation in unfamiliar cultures
HONR 212A   Encountering the Middle East   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102; Restricted to students in the Honors Program   
This course introduces students to various regions in the Middle East and
some of the components of selected civilizations in this region as they
have evolved historically and persist in the modern world. Topics might
include monotheistic religions, the Ottoman Empire, Islamic culture,
creation of the modern system of states after the First World War, the
place of women in Middle Eastern societies, urban and rural cul tures, the
political and economic consequences of water scarcity and oil wealth.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Historical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Islamic World Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will learn different methods of interpreting cultural, economic,
political, and social forces, and their impact on human behavior; They
will become aware of variations in human identities and values, ideas of
justice, and methods of interpretation in unfamiliar cultures
HONR 212B   Encountering the Middle East   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102; Restricted to students in the Honors Program   
This course introduces students to various regions in the Middle East and
some of the components of selected civilizations in this region as they
have evolved historically and persist in the modern world. Topics might
include monotheistic religions, the Ottoman Empire, Islamic culture,
creation of the modern system of states after the First World War, the
place of women in Middle Eastern societies, urban and rural cul tures, the
political and economic consequences of water scarcity and oil wealth.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Islamic World Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will learn different methods of interpreting cultural, economic,
political, and social forces, and their impact on human behavior; They
will become aware of variations in human identities and values, ideas of
justice, and methods of interpretation in unfamiliar cultures

--- Page 142 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 173
HONR 212C   Encountering the Middle East   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102; Restricted to students in the Honors Program   
This course introduces students to various regions in the Middle East and
some of the components of selected civilizations in this region as they
have evolved historically and persist in the modern world. Topics might
include monotheistic religions, the Ottoman Empire, Islamic culture,
creation of the modern system of states after the First World War, the
place of women in Middle Eastern societies, urban and rural cul tures, the
political and economic consequences of water scarcity and oil wealth.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Islamic World Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will learn different methods of interpreting cultural, economic,
political, and social forces, and their impact on human behavior; They
will become aware of variations in human identities and values, ideas of
justice, and methods of interpretation in unfamiliar cultures
HONR 216   Encountering Contemporary Europe   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102; Restricted to students in the Honors Program   
This course introduces students to selected areas of Europe as they have
evolved since World War II. Topics might include Europe's cultural history,
nationalism, the European Union, immigration, economic development,
and political life. Professors introduce students to various ways of
approaching an area with many languages, ethnicities, nation-states and
religions.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will learn different methods of interpreting cultural, economic,
political, and social forces, and their impact on human behavior; Students
will become aware of variations in human identities and values, ideas of
justice, and shared understandings in unfamiliar cultures
HONR 216A   Encountering Contemporary Europe   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102; Restricted to students in the Honors Program   
This course introduces students to selected areas of Europe as they have
evolved since World War II. Topics might include Europe's cultural history,
nationalism, the European Union, immigration, economic development,
and political life. Professors introduce students to various ways of
approaching an area with many languages, ethnicities, nation-states and
religions.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Historical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will learn different methods of interpreting cultural, economic,
political, and social forces, and their impact on human behavior; They
will become aware of variations in human identities and values, ideas of
justice, and shared understandings in unfamiliar culturesHONR 216B   Encountering Contemporary Europe   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102; Restricted to students in the Honors Program   
This course introduces students to selected areas of Europe as they have
evolved since World War II. Topics might include Europe's cultural history,
nationalism, the European Union, immigration, economic development,
and political life. Professors introduce students to various ways of
approaching an area with many languages, ethnicities, nation-states and
religions.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will learn different methods of interpreting cultural, economic,
political, and social forces, and their impact on human behavior; They
will become aware of variations in human identities and values, ideas of
justice, and shared understandings in unfamiliar cultures
HONR 216C   Encountering Contemporary Europe   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102; Restricted to students in the Honors Program   
This course introduces students to European literature as it has
evolved since World War II. Topics might include the various ways in
which Europe's cultural history, nationalism, immigration, economic
development, and political life are reflected in its ﬁction and drama.
Professors introduce students to various ways of approaching an area
with many languages, ethnicities, nation-states and religions.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the various
ways in which human identities and values have been presented in
literature; they will be able to analyze and defend interpretations of a
variety of literary texts
HONR 290   Literacy Center   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Students in or beyond their second semester; UCWR 110 or
equivalent   
This course offers training and practical experience in tutoring adults in
written and spoken English in a volunteer literacy program. Students will
be able to demonstrate understanding of societal and cultural factors
affecting literacy, and will develop communication and critical thinking
skills.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
HONR 301   Honors Capstone: Moral Responsibility   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is the capstone of the Interdisciplinary Honors Program
and may be taught from the disciplinary perspectives of philosophy or
theology. Students will be able to analyze ethical theories and to apply
principles of ethical reasoning and individual moral responsibility to
contemporary social issues and questions that arise in everyday life.
Students must have 75 credit hours or more to enroll.
Knowledge Area:  Ethics   
HONR 370   Fieldwork in Honors - Internship   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
The main goal of this course is to provide students with valuable work
experience in a professional ﬁeld connected with their academic program.
It allows students to apply and further develop their knowledge and
skills through an internship in a non-academic setting. The course
is also intended to serve as a "bridge" between college and career.
This internship presents an opportunity for students to gain valuable
professional experience as an intern in public or private institutions
engaged in public service projects. HONR 370 will satisfy the "service"
requirement for all Honors students.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   

--- Page 143 ---
174  College of Arts and Sciences
Human Services (HMSV)
HMSV 101   Survey of Human Services   (3 Credit Hours)   
Survey of Human Services will cover basic concepts and models of
service delivery in the ﬁeld. Primary emphasis will be on the growth and
evolution of the ﬁeld, types of services and needy populations, and issues
that affect the delivery of human services in the United States.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services   
HMSV 201   Human Services Practice   (3 Credit Hours)   
The purpose of this course is to prepare students for their future work in
HMSV agencies and to introduce them to HMSV clients. The course will
teach students about the basic issues that face HMSV providers and will
help them put a human face on HMSV clients. In addition, the course will
emphasize the importance of client diversity in formulating assessment
and case management strategies for HMSV clients.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
HMSV 390   Supervised Fieldwork II   (6 Credit Hours)   
No course description is available
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Interdisciplinary Studies (INDS)
INDS 380   Newberry Seminar   (6 Credit Hours)   
This course is for students selected for the Newberry Library
Undergraduate Seminar, an interdisciplinary, humanities research course
offered every Spring. The theme of research changes annually. The
competition for the ﬁve spots for Loyola students is held every Fall.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
International Cinema, Video, and New
Media (ICVM)
ICVM 201   Media Theory and Criticism   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to the study of traditional mass media and
new media from a critical and interpretive perspective.
Course equivalencies:  X-IFMS201/COMM201   
Outcomes:
This course reviews semiotics and other methods of textual analysis
of media; Students taking the course should be able to understand and
apply textual analysis methods to speciﬁc media texts, such as ﬁlms, TV
shows or videogames
ICVM 297   Special Topics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Advanced courses that offer in-depth reading. Research, and discussion
in a specialized area, Course titles and content vary, and prerequisites are
established by the instructor. May be repeated (with different topics) for a
total of 9 hours.
Course equivalencies:  ICVM297/IFMS297   
ICVM 323   Film Genre   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ICVM 201 or 222   
This course offers an in-depth analysis of ﬁlm genres, their conventions,
and /or cultural functions (e.g., documentary ﬁlm noir, science ﬁction).
Selected ﬁlm viewing is a catalyst for analyzing the relations between
ideology, authorship, and storytelling. May be repeated with different
topic for a total of 9 hours but only 6 may count towards the major.
Course equivalencies:  X-COMM323/ICVM323/IFMS323   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge what constitutes  a genre
and the varied approaches used to analyze ﬁlms within the context of
genre studiesICVM 365   History of Photography   (3 Credit Hours)   
A chronological and thematic survey of the history of photography,
especially in Europe and America. Fine art and utilitarian applications of
the medium are considered by examining photographers who represent
the origin and development of major pictorial forms; the interaction
between technology and imagery; and the relationships between
photography and historical, social and cultural events.
Course equivalencies:  X-FNAR365/ICVM365/IFMS365   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the most
important pictorial forms, themes, practitioners, processes and context
of photography as a ﬁne and applied art from the beginning of the
nineteenth century to the present
ICVM 395   Special Topics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Advanced courses that offer in-depth reading, research, media production
training, and discussion in a specialized area. May be repeated (with
different topics) for a total of 9 hours.
Outcomes:
Would vary from topic to topic; Students will be able to demonstrate an
understanding of the speciﬁc topic area selected
ICVM 398   Practicum   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
This course allows advanced students to work independently and gain
advance practical experience in the production of signiﬁcant ﬁlm, video,
and digital media projects.
Course equivalencies:  ICVM398/IFMS398   
Outcomes:
The student will gain experience in developing and producing a
signiﬁcant ﬁlm, video or digital media project
Interreligious and Interfaith (IRIF)
IRIF 300   Religious Diversity in Theory & Practice   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides an integrative overview of the ﬁeld of interreligious
and interfaith studies by way of its main components: Interreligious
literacy, religious pluralism, and interreligious conflict resolution. It is
intended to equip students to work in a multireligious setting.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Interreligious and Interfaith Studies   
Outcomes:
To be prepared to work in religiously diverse environments, understand
religious diversity in America and its practical implications, and
understand basic methodologies and concepts in the study of
interreligious relations
IRIF 380   Interreligious and Interfaith Internship   (3 Credit Hours)   
An internship in an interreligious or multireligious setting. Upon
completion students will write an analysis of the ways diverse religious
traditions interact in practical settings. Restricted to Interreligious and
Interfaith Minors.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Interreligious and Interfaith Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-IRIF 380/SOCL 380I   
Islamic World Studies (IWS)
IWS IWS   Survey of Islamic History   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course will introduce the historical development of Islamic
civilization and the formation of Muslim social and political institutions
from the 7th century to the present.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge of the historical
development and diversity of Islamic beliefs, practices, and institutions in
varied regional contexts and historical periods

--- Page 144 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 175
Italian (ITAL)
ITAL 101   Italian I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides an introduction to the basic grammatical elements
of Italian, promoting the development of listening comprehension,
speaking, reading and writing skills while examining the geography and
culture of Italy.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and write basic Italian sentences and
to produce orally and in writing short sentences providing basic personal
information about themselves, their activities and plans in Italian
ITAL 102   Italian II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ITAL 101   
This course continues the introduction to the basic grammatical
elements of Italian, promoting the further development of listening
comprehension, speaking, reading and writing skills while examining the
geography and culture of Italy.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and write basic Italian sentences and
to produce orally and in writing short sentences providing basic personal
information about themselves, their activities and plans in Italian
ITAL 103   Italian III   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ITAL 102   
This course examines more complex grammatical elements of Italian,
and promotes the development of intermediate listening comprehension,
speaking, reading and writing skills.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and write more complex Italian
sentences and paragraphs, and to produce orally and in writing
paragraphs and longer pieces providing accounts of their present past
and future activities, and oral and written reactions to Italian cultural
products
ITAL 104   Italian IV   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ITAL 103   
This course is a comprehensive review of the basic grammatical
elements of Italian, while continuing to promote all language skills with
particular emphasis on reading and writing proﬁciency in areas of cultural
and societal investigation.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and write increasingly complex Italian
sentences and paragraphs and to produce orally and in writing utterances
and texts about Italy, its cultural distinctness and its differences from the
United States
ITAL 250   Composition & Conversation I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ITAL 104   
This advanced conversation and composition course emphasizes
the development of advanced Italian speaking and writing skills and
examines advanced grammar and vocabulary in relation to advanced skill
development.
Outcomes:
Students will further develop their Italian language skill acquired in
previous courses and through experience and will strive for functional
conversational fluency and the ability to write with clarity, precision and
control of grammatical elementsITAL 251   Composition & Conversation II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ITAL 104   
This advanced conversation and composition course can either be
taken as a continuation of ITAL 250 or independently. It also emphasizes
the development of advanced Italian speaking and writing skills and
examines advanced grammar and vocabulary in relation to advanced skill
development.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Italian Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will further develop their Italian language skill acquired in
previous courses and through experience and will strive for functional
conversational fluency and the ability to write with clarity, precision and
control of grammatical elements
ITAL 270   Main Currents of Italian Literature I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course, taught in Italian, is an introduction to Italian literary texts
of the Middle Ages and early Renaissance in relation to the cultural and
social and political history of Italy during its most noteworthy period of
development.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Italian Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of how medieval and Renaissance
Italian literary text reflect in a profound way Italy's cultural, artistic and
political history in a systematic manner
ITAL 271   Main Currents of Italian Literature II   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course, taught in Italian, is an introduction to Italian literary texts and
ﬁlms in relation to the cultural and political history of Italy from 1700 to
the present.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies, Italian Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of how Italian literary texts and ﬁlm
reflect in a profound way Italy's social, cultural, economic and political
history in a systematic manner
ITAL 280   Masterpieces of Italian Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ITAL 250 and ITAL 251, with C or better; If either 250 or 251
have been completed, the other may be taken simultaneously with this
course   
This course is dedicated to the study of selected literary masterpieces
written in Italian. Canonical and non-canonical works may be included,
alongside essays that reflect on the deﬁnition and the history of Italian
literature and its canon.
Outcomes:
By the end of the course, students will be able to describe, discuss,
and present works of literature in expository writing; Students will
demonstrate adequate reading and writing skills at level through oral
presentations and term papers; Achievement level desired: ACTFL*
Intermediate High to Advanced Low

--- Page 145 ---
176  College of Arts and Sciences
ITAL 282   Studies in a Theme   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ITAL 250 and ITAL 251, with C or better; If either 250 or 251
have been completed, the other may be taken simultaneously with this
course   
This course explores a theme chosen by the instructor on any social,
artistic, and intellectual currents in the cultural history of Italy. The
course may include cultural expressions such as the visual arts, music,
theatre, performance, and ﬁlm. It may consider different communication
platforms such as - but not limited to - social media and pop c ulture. It
may examine different genres and periods.
Outcomes:
By the end of the course, students will be able to identify the historical
and social roots of Italian cultural phenomena and differentiate traditions
and cultural perspectives in expository writing; Students will demonstrate
adequate reading and writing skills at level through oral presentations
and term papers; Achievement level desired: ACTFL* Intermediate High to
Advanced Low
ITAL 283   Studies in Italian Authors   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ITAL 250 and ITAL 251, with C or better; If either 250 or 251
have been completed, the other may be taken simultaneously with this
course   
This course is dedicated to the study of selected Italian authors.
Canonical and non-canonical writers may be included, alongside authors
of the Italian diaspora.
Course equivalencies:  X-ITAL283/MSTU376   
Outcomes:
By the end of the course, students will be able to describe, discuss, and
present the works of Italian authors in expository writing; Students will
demonstrate adequate reading and writing skills at level through oral
presentations and term papers; Achievement level desired: ACTFL*
Intermediate High to Advanced Low
ITAL 284   Studies in Italian Film   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ITAL 250 and ITAL 251, with C or better; If either 250 or 251
have been completed, the other may be taken simultaneously with this
course   
This course will focus on one or more aspects of Italian ﬁlms and may
concentrate on narrative structure, genre, authorship, cinematography,
casting, setting, and so on. The course may include a diverse selection of
Italian high-brow and popular ﬁlms, alongside readings that highlight their
societal and cultural roots.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Outcomes:
By the end of the course, students will be able to describe, discuss, and
present on various aspects of Italian cinema and the work of Italian
ﬁlmmakers; Students will demonstrate adequate reading and writing
skills at level through oral presentations and term papers; Achievement
level desired: ACTFL* Intermediate High to Advanced LowITAL 290   The Italians   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ITAL 250 and ITAL 251, with C or better; If either 250 or 251
have been completed, the other may be taken simultaneously with this
course   
This course aims at the acquisition of the Italian language for
professional purposes in conducting business in Italy or with Italian
companies. It will provide students with professional opportunities in an
international and global environment.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Italian American Studies   
Outcomes:
By the end of the course, students will be familiar with business etiquette
and the organization of Italian companies and corporations; Students
will demonstrate use of appropriate written professional language in
business letters and CV writing, and in oral communication; Ach ievement
level desired: ACTFL* Intermediate High to Advanced Low
ITAL 300   Tutorial for Credit   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
Students will cover a specially designed program of study through regular
meeting with Italian faculty.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Italian Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of literature and culture and will
improve their language skills
ITAL 301   Stylistics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ITAL 270 and ITAL 271, with C or better; If either 270 or 271
have been completed, the other may be taken simultaneously with this
course   
This course helps students develop writing skills in expository prose.
Based on intensive study of advanced grammar and syntax, the course
enhances students' vocabulary through prose, poetry, and essay
readings.
Outcomes:
By the end of the course, students will demonstrate a ﬁrm and
comprehensive command of the complexities of written and spoken
Italian in expository writing and oral presentations; Achievement level
desired: ACTFL* Advanced Low
ITAL 305   Advanced Grammar   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course, taught in Italian, is a study of advanced Italian composition
and rhetoric, with advanced study of Italian grammar.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Italian Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will further develop their Italian language skills acquired in
previous courses and through experience and will strive to achieve as
high a proﬁciency level as personally possible in their advanced Italian
reading and writing ability
ITAL 308   Literary Criticism   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ITAL 270 and ITAL 271, with C or better; If either 270 or 271
have been completed, the other may be taken simultaneously with this
course   
Students will study major schools and themes in literary theory, both
historical and contemporary. Rhetorical, philosophical, and cultural
approaches to literature will be studied in conjunction with speciﬁc
literary texts drawn from several linguistic and cultural traditions.
Course equivalencies:  X-FREN/GERM/ITAL/SPAN308   
Outcomes:
By the end of the course, students will be able to debate, cont extualize,
and interpret major critical issues in the study and theory of literature
in expository writing and oral presentations; ACTFL* achievement level
desired: Advanced Low to Mid

--- Page 146 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 177
ITAL 312   Dante-The Divine Comedy   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course, taught in Italian, will examine the Vita Nuova and Divine
Comedy of Dante Alighieri and study Dante's poetic world in the context
of Medieval culture.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies, Italian
Studies, Medieval Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ITAL312/CATH312/MSTU364   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of Dante's Italian and
understanding of the historical, cultural, critical and technic al vocabulary
needed to analyze the Divine Comedy
ITAL 314   Survey 13th & 14th Century Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course, taught in Italian, will examine the influential li terary works
of Francis Petrarch and Giovanni Boccaccio with emphasis on their
respective masterpieces: the Canzoniere and the Decameron.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, Medieval Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ITAL314/MSTU368   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of Petrarch's poetry and
Boccaccio's difﬁcult prose and their techniques of composition
ITAL 315   Italian Renaissance Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course, taught in Italian, will examine the influential li terary works of
Poliziano, Lorenzo dei Medici, Machiavelli and Castiglione.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Italian Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of Renaissance literature in a
variety of genres
ITAL 316   Renaissance Chivalric Poems   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course, taught in Italian, will examine the Chivalric Romance Epics of
Boiardo, Ariosto and Tasso.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of Renaissance literature 's
greatest works
ITAL 317   Survey Early 19th Century Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will examine the influential literary works of Ugo Foscolo,
Giacomo Leopardi, Alessandro Manzoni and other authors in a crucial
period in the formation of modern Italian cultural identity.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of Foscolo and Leopardi poetry and
Manzoni's prose and their literary style
ITAL 318   Survey Late 19th Cent Lit   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will examine the influential literary works of Giovanni Verga
and the school of Verismo and the "romanzi di formazione" of Edmondo
De' Amicis, Carlo Collodi, and other signiﬁcant Italian authors.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Italian Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of Verga and verismo and of the
works of other major late-19th century authors
ITAL 319   Survey of 20th Century Prose   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course, taught in Italian, will examine representative Italian novels
of the 20th century by authors such as Svevo, Silone, Calvino, Bassani, P .
Levi, and Ginzburg.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies, Italian Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of Italian novelists and their prose
and their literary style; Students will improve their Italian reading and
writing skillsITAL 320   Survey of 20th Century Poetry   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will examine the major Italian poets of the twentie th century
with emphasis on Ungaretti, Quasimodo, Montale, Pasolini, Zanzotto and
Luzi. Students will demonstrate the ability to interpret Italian poetry and
will write their own Italian poetry.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of Italian poetry and major 20th
century poets
ITAL 331   Survey of Italian Theater   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will examine representative works of Italian theater from the
Renaissance to the present. Featured authors will include Machiavelli,
Goldoni, Pirandello and Dario Fo.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Italian Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of Italian theater in its historical
development; Students will demonstrate the ability to analyze Italian
plays and act out famous scenes
ITAL 340   Italian Short Story   (3 Credit Hours)   
This survey course will examine representative works of the Italian short
story tradition from the 13th century Novellino to the present.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Italian Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of Italian short story in its
historical development; Students will demonstrate the ability to analyze
Italian short stories and will create their own
ITAL 390   Culture & Civilization   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course taught in Italian studies the Italy that has emerged since
the World War II. examines contemporary Italian culture and society and
the problems Italy faces through study of a variety written texts (literary,
historical, journalistic) and media.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies, Italian American
Studies, Italian Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ITAL390/INTS394   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of Italian society as it has been
transformed over the past 60 years and will be able to under the role
of representative political and cultural ﬁgures and forces in promoting
change
ITAL 395   Internship   (3 Credit Hours)   
The internship will enable students to gain practical experience in
working in Italian government institutions in Chicago (such as the Italian
Cultural Institute) or working in businesses or education.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Italian Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will work 4-8 per week and reflect on their experience in
conversations with supervising professor and other interns

--- Page 147 ---
178  College of Arts and Sciences
ITAL 397   Topics in Italian Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ITAL 270 and ITAL 271, with C or better; If either 270 or 271
have been completed, the other may be taken simultaneously with this
course   
This course explores a topic chosen by the instructor on any genre,
tradition, and form in the literary history of Italy. The course may include
literary expressions such as poetry, the short story, the novel, theatre,
travel literature, etc., and may also consider different genres and periods.
Outcomes:
By the end of the course, students will be able to debate, cont extualize,
and interpret major critical issues in the study of Italian literature in
expository writing and oral presentations; Achievement level desired:
ACTFL* Advanced Low to Advanced Medium
ITAL 399   Italian Honors Tutorial   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Instructor's consent, restricted to students in Italian BA   
Eligible students majoring in Italian and with departmental honors may
elect tutorial for credit; topic chosen in consultation with faculty member.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Italian Studies   
Course equivalencies:  ITAL399H / ITAL399   
Outcomes:
Students will explore a topic of their choice guided by a faculty member,
and will conduct a research project that will result in a ﬁnal paper;
Achievement level desired: ACTFL* Advanced Low to Advanced-Mid
Italian American Studies (ITAS)
ITAS 101   Introduction to Italian American Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course provides a framework for understanding the processes
by which Italian immigrants and their descendants became/become
members of American society, developing complex ethnic identities while
often retaining some afﬁliation and/or transnational relations with Italy.
It addresses questions of class, race, gender, and multiculturalism in
relation to the Italian-American experience.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Italian Studies   
Outcomes:
Interpret and contextualize the experience of Italian-Americans and
their expressive culture through historical, sociological, and political
perspectives, extrapolating from the particular (Italian-American
experience) to the general (immigration, assimilation, American identity)
ITAS 264   Italian Americans on Screen   (3 Credit Hours)   
Through its survey of representations of Italians/Italian Americans, this
course seeks to go beyond the stereotypical ways in which their cultures
have been depicted in American ﬁlm and television and to investigate
how these images are often produced (and received) to ask questions
about the development of American ethnicity.
Outcomes:
Students will acquire literacy in the analysis of moving image culture
and understand how ﬁlm and television not only represent the Italian-
American experience, but also help to construct Italian-American identity
ITAS 299   Explorations of the Italian Immigrant Experience   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course will analyze the "close encounter" between emigrants of
Italian origin and the American society at the turn of the 20th  century.
Students will be exposed to Historical, Sociological, Literary, Cinematic,
Cultural studies, and will develop a ﬁnal on-ﬁeld research taking
advantage of their stay in Italy.
Outcomes:
To learn how Italian migrants participated in building the US; to
appreciate the contributions of Italian migrants to US culture, to use the
time in Italy to explore Italian cultural rootsJapanese (JAPN)
JAPN 101   Japanese I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces the four basic communicative skills in Japanese:
listening, speaking, reading, and writing. Students gain knowledge of
Japanese culture and ways of thinking which provide the context for
communicating in Japanese. No previous knowledge of Japanese is
required.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Japanese Language and Culture   
Course equivalencies:  X-JAPN101/ASIAJ01   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and respond to greetings,
introductions, and basic question about time, location, and directions and
will be able to read and write hiragana and katakana, the two phonetic
Japanese scripts as well as about 25 ideographic characters
JAPN 102   Japanese II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  JAPN 101   
Students will build on the skills in listening comprehension, speaking,
reading and writing gained in JAPN 101.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Japanese Language and Culture   
Course equivalencies:  X-JAPN102/ASIAJ02   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to introduce themselves and others, discuss daily
life, and read and write simple paragraph length compositions with the
aid of vocabulary lists
JAPN 103   Japanese III   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  JAPN 102   
Students will expand their knowledge of Japanese vocabulary, grammar,
usage, and speech levels, using Japanese as a medium for learning
Japanese.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Japanese Language and Culture   
Course equivalencies:  X-JAPN103/ASIAJ03   
Outcomes:
Students will use written and spoken Japanese to ask for and express
opinions, to ask for assistance, and to participate in a variety of written
and verbal social routines
JAPN 104   Japanese IV   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  JAPN 103   
This course extends students' knowledge of Japanese grammar,
vocabulary, verbal routines, and cultural patterns. Students will read and
respond in Japanese to short works of ﬁction and non-ﬁction.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Japanese Language and Culture   
Course equivalencies:  X-JAPN104/ASIAJ04   
Outcomes:
Students will converse in Japanese for extended periods and be able to
decode and create many written items from daily life such as application
forms, catalogs, and recipes
JAPN 250   Composition & Conversation I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students gain mastery of intermediate Japanese grammar and increase
their ability to use honoriﬁc and humble speech, with increasing use of
Japanese as the medium of instruction.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Japanese Language and Culture   
JAPN 251   Composition & Conversation II   (3 Credit Hours)   
This class is conducted mostly in Japanese with students developing the
ability to read and discuss longer texts, including primary sources, to gain
greater knowledge and understanding of Japan.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Japanese Language and Culture   

--- Page 148 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 179
Latin (LATN)
LATN 101   Latin I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces students to elementary grammatical forms, basic
syntax, and vocabulary of Latin, and simple readings in the language.
Course equivalencies:  LATN131/LATN101   
Outcomes:
students should be able to demonstrate basic knowledge of Latin
vocabulary, syntax and grammar and deploy it to be able to translate
accurately simple Latin sentences and passages into English
LATN 102   Latin II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101   
This course continues the study of the fundamentals of the Latin
language, including more vocabulary, grammar, syntax and more
advanced readings. (Latin I or its equivalent is a prerequisite for this
course.)
Course equivalencies:  LATN132/LATN102   
Outcomes:
students should be able to demonstrate advanced knowledge of basic
Latin vocabulary, syntax and grammar and deploy it to be able to
translate accurately more advanced Latin sentences and passages into
English
LATN 271   Introduction to Reading Latin   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101, 102 (grade of 'B' or higher) or their equivalents
(AP Latin credit; CAS Latin competency exam)   
This intermediate-level course centers on translation of prose and poetry
of Roman authors, with special emphasis on review of Latin grammar as
it is encountered in the selected texts.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to translate selected passages of Latin p rose and
poetry with accuracy, analyze and appreciate Roman literature, and
demonstrate understanding of the content of the passages
LATN 281   Intro to Roman Historians   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
This course centers on translation of representative selections from the
historical works of Republican, Augustan and other Latin authors.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate accurately Latin historical
prose passages, analyze and appreciate their style and contents, and
demonstrate knowledge and understanding of their various contexts and
meanings
LATN 283   The Age of Caesar   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
This course focuses on the literature and society of Rome at the time of
Julius Caesar, in particular translation of selected readings from such
authors as Lucretius, Catullus, Sallust, Caesar and Cicero.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Shakespeare Studies   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate accurately the selected readings,
analyze and appreciate their style and content, and demonstrate
knowledge and understanding of their contexts and meanings
LATN 284   The Age of Augustus   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
This course focuses on the literature and society of Rome at the time of
Augustus. Selected readings are from such authors as Vergil, Horace,
Livy, Ovid, Tibullus and Propertius.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate accurately the selected readings,
analyze and appreciate their style and content, and demonstrate
knowledge and understanding of their contexts and meaningsLATN 286   The Age of Nero   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
This course focuses on the literature and society of Rome at the time
of Nero. Selected readings are from such authors as Tacitus, Petronius,
Seneca, and Lucan.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate accurately the selected readings,
analyze and appreciate their style and content, and demonstrate
knowledge and understanding of their contexts and meanings
LATN 287   Age of Flavians   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
This course focuses on the literature and society of Rome at the time of
the emperors Vespasian, Titus and Domitian. Selected readings are from
such authors as Tacitus, Suetonius, Martial and Juvenal.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate accurately the selected readings,
analyze and appreciate their style and content, and demonstrate
knowledge and understanding of their contexts and meanings
LATN 289   Readings in Latin Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
Students study a selected range of masterworks in Latin literature. (This
is a special topics course in Latin.)
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate deeper knowledge and
understanding of selected Latin literature, its style and its possible
interpretations
LATN 303   Latin Composition   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
This course involves practical exercises to develop correct and fluent
expression in written Latin prose.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to write Latin in various styles, demonstrating
facility in deploying fluent knowledge of vocabulary, syntax and grammar
in the writing of Latin prose
LATN 314   Cicero's Letters   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
This course examines the correspondence of Cicero, as well as the
political, social, and intellectual context of Classical Rome.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate these works with proﬁciency,
to demonstrate knowledge in detail of the genre of formal Latin
correspondence, the author and his times, and to understand and
appreciate the ideas, issues and concerns expressed in the letters
LATN 315   The Latin Fathers   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
This course examines the writings of the early church fathers, including
such as Ambrose, Jerome and Augustine; it also comprises an
introduction to the historical background of Western patristic thought.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate these works with proﬁciency,
demonstrate knowledge in detail of the writings, their authors and their
times, and appreciate more deeply the issues and concerns located in
these writings

--- Page 149 ---
180  College of Arts and Sciences
LATN 317   Pliny The Younger   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
This course examines the correspondence of the younger Pliny, as well as
the political, social, and intellectual context of later Classical Rome and
Roman customs in public and private life.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate these works with proﬁciency,
demonstrate knowledge in detail of the genre, the author and his times,
and understand and appreciate the ideas, issues and concerns expressed
in the letters
LATN 325   The Orations of Cicero   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
This course centers on the public orations of Cicero, his methods of
oratorical persuasion, and the judicial processes of late Republican Rome
that form the context for these orations.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate these works with proﬁciency,
demonstrate knowledge in detail of the genre, the author and his times,
understand and appreciate the ideas, issues and concerns expressed in
the orations, and comprehend the historical and judicial background of
the orations
LATN 328   Quintilian   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and LATN 102 or their equivalents   
This courses centers on Quintilian and his Institutio Oratoria, a
comprehensive textbook of the technical aspects of ancient rhetoric.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate these works with proﬁciency,
demonstrate knowledge in detail of Latin rhetoric and oratory, and
understand and appreciate Latin rhetorical styles, literary ﬁgures, and the
structure and contents of Latin speeches
LATN 332   Historical Masterworks I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
This course examines the works of Livy or Sallust and their contexts in
the later Republic and early Empire.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate these works with proﬁciency and
demonstrate knowledge in detail of the author/s studied and the contents
of the writings, as well appreciation for the genre of historical writing and
for its signiﬁcance within its political and intellectual context
LATN 335   Historical Masterworks II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
This course examines the works of Tacitus, Suetonius or Latin historical
writers of the later Roman Empire.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate these works with proﬁciency and
demonstrate knowledge in detail of the author/s studied and the contents
of the writings, as well appreciation for the genre of historical writing and
for its signiﬁcance within its political and intellectual contexts
LATN 341   Vergil   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
This course focuses on Vergil's Aeneid and the genre of Latin epic poetry,
in particular, on the character of Aeneas and his place within the context
of Augustan Roman politics and society.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the Aeneid with proﬁciency, and
demonstrate detailed knowledge of the author, the poem, and its contents
and meanings, as well as deeper understanding and appreciation
of various contexts of the poem and Vergil's accomplishments in
composing itLATN 343   Latin Verse   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
The subject of this course is Latin poetic verse, including selections from
Catullus, Horace, Martial, Statius and other Latin poets.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the works with proﬁciency, and
demonstrate knowledge in detail about the authors, their poetry, and the
various poetic styles they employed, as well as deeper understanding
and appreciation of the historical, social and intellectual contexts and
influences pertaining to them
LATN 344   Roman Elegy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
The subject of this course is Latin elegiac poetry, including selections
from Catullus, Tibullus, Propertius, and Ovid.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate Roman elegy with proﬁciency, and
demonstrate knowledge in detail about the authors, their poetry, and Latin
elegy, as well as deeper understanding and appreciation of the historical,
social and intellectual contexts and influences pertaining to them
LATN 345   Horace   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
This course focuses on selections of the odes, satires and epistles of
Horace, set against the backdrop of late Republican and Augustan Rome.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the selections of Horace with
proﬁciency, and demonstrate knowledge in detail about the author, his
poetry, the various styles he used, as well as deeper understanding
and appreciation of the historical, social and intellectual contexts and
influences pertaining to them
LATN 346   Juvenal   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
This course focuses on the satires of Juvenal, set against the backdrop
of Flavian Age Rome and the Roman Empire.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the satires with proﬁciency, and
demonstrate knowledge in detail about the author and his satires, as well
as deeper understanding and appreciation of the historical, social and
intellectual contexts and influences pertaining to them
LATN 347   Early Christian Poetry   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and LATN 102 or their equivalents   
This courses centers on early Christian poets such as Ausonius,
Prudentius and Fortunatus, and their works.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the selected works with proﬁciency,
and demonstrate knowledge in detail about the authors and their poems,
as well as deeper understanding and appreciation of the historical, social,
spiritual, and intellectual contexts of their works
LATN 351   Roman Comedy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
This course focuses on the genre of Roman comedy, including selected
plays of Plautus and/or Terence.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Shakespeare Studies   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate selected texts in Roman comedy
with proﬁciency and demonstrate knowledge in detail about the authors
and their comedies, as well as deeper understanding and appreciation of
the historical, social and intellectual contexts and influences  pertaining
to them

--- Page 150 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 181
LATN 360   Lucretius   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
This course centers on translation and understanding of the De Rerum
Natura of Lucretius.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the poetry of Lucretius with
proﬁciency and demonstrate knowledge in detail about the author and his
work, as well as deeper understanding and appreciation of the historical,
social and intellectual contexts and influences pertaining to it
LATN 361   St Augustine's Works   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
This course focuses on translation and understanding of the works of
Saint Augustine.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
Course equivalencies:  LATN361/CATH361   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate these works with proﬁciency and be
able to demonstrate knowledge in detail about the author and his works,
as well as deeper understanding and appreciation of the historical, social
and intellectual contexts and influences pertaining to them
LATN 362   Cicero's Philosophical Works   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
This course focuses on translation and understanding of the
philosophical works of the orator Cicero, including, for example, De
Amicitia.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the philosophical works of  Cicero
with proﬁciency and be able to demonstrate knowledge in detail
about the author and his works, as well as deeper understanding and
appreciation of the historical, social and intellectual contexts and
influences pertaining to them
LATN 364   Seneca   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
This course focuses on translation and understanding of the works of the
philosopher and playwright, Seneca.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Shakespeare Studies   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the selected works of Seneca with
proﬁciency and demonstrate knowledge in detail about the author and his
works, as well as deeper understanding and appreciation of the historical,
social and intellectual contexts and influences pertaining to them
LATN 373   Workshop-Secondary School Latin   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
This course examines the objectives, standards, methods of presentation,
testing, audiovisual aids, and desirable backgrounds for the teaching of
Latin in secondary schools. This course is for prospective teachers of
Latin and is taught in cooperation with Loyola's School of Education.
Course equivalencies:  X-CIEP373/LATN373   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate knowledge of these objec tive
and standards, etc, as well as be able to employ them effectively in
classroom contextsLATN 387   Medieval Latin   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
This course focuses on readings in medieval Latin prose and poetry, as
well as on comparison with classical Latin style and content.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Medieval Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-LATN387/MSTU384   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the selected works of the course
with proﬁciency, and demonstrate knowledge in detail about their authors,
as well as deeper understanding and appreciation of the historical, social
and intellectual contexts and influences pertaining to them
LATN 388   Readings in Latin Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
Students study a selected range of masterworks in Latin literature. (This
is a special topics course in Latin.)
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the selected works with proﬁciency
and demonstrate deeper knowledge and understanding of selected Latin
literature, its style and its possible interpretations
LATN 389   Readings in Latin Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
Students study a selected range of masterworks in Latin literature. (This
is a special topics course in Latin.)
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the selected works with proﬁciency
and demonstrate deeper knowledge and understanding of selected Latin
literature, its style and its possible interpretations
Latin American Studies (LASP)
LASP 196   Topics in Latin American Studies: Introductory   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This is the 100-level special topics course. It is interdisciplinary in nature,
and it may cover a wide variety of issues and topics related to Latin
America and to Latinos in the U.S.
Outcomes:
Students who successfully ﬁnish this class will be able to demonstrate
understanding of the topics covered in class, as shown in exams, papers,
and other assignments designed to evaluate students
LASP 297   Special Topics   (3 Credit Hours)   
This is the 200-level special topics course. It is interdisciplinary in nature,
and it may cover a wide variety of issues and topics related to Latin
America. Topics will vary from semester to semester.
LASP 395   Capstone in Latin American Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
Topics in Latin American Studies. Completes the minor in Latin American
studies. This tutorial course serves an integrative purpose, requiring the
student to focus on a speciﬁc issue or theme in Latin American studies
research. Each student completes a research project integrating Latin
American studies and his/her major ﬁeld.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Latin American Studies   
Course equivalencies:  LASP395/INTS395A   
LASP 396   Topics in Latin American Studies-Advanced   (3 Credit Hours)   
This is the advanced special topics course. It is interdisciplinary in nature,
and it may cover a wide variety of issues and topics related to Latin
America and to Latinos in the U.S.
Outcomes:
Students who successfully ﬁnish this class will be able to demonstrate
a more complex and nuanced understanding of the topics covered in
class, as shown in exams, papers, and other assignments designed to
test students at an advanced level

--- Page 151 ---
182  College of Arts and Sciences
Linguistics (LING)
LING 302   Methods of Teaching Foreign Language   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to the ﬁelds of Second Language
Acquisition as well as Foreign Language Teaching.
Outcomes:
Students will gain a solid understanding of the underlying psychological
processes of language acquisition, and how this knowledge is used in
the design of pedagogical materials for the second/ foreign language
classroom; Students will also receive pragmatic instruction in the
teaching of the different linguistic skills
Literature in Translation (LITR)
LITR 161   Introduction to Italian Culture   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces students to major social, artistic, and intellectual
currents in the cultural history of Italy from antiquity to contemporary
times. The overall goal is to reflect on how Italian culture has
transcended the strict conﬁnes of its national origin to become  a source
of universal values and inspiration.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies, Italian American
Studies, Italian Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to identify the historical roots of Italian cultural
phenomena; Students will become familiar with differing traditions and
cultural perspectives; Students will enhance their reading and critical
thinking skills
LITR 200   European Masterpieces   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
Major European literary texts will be examined in a historical and cultural
context and in their transhistorical, universal aspects that make them
masterpieces. Students will understand how literary masterpieces help
us develop critical consciousness of our experience.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  LITR200/INTS200   
LITR 202   European Novel   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course will focus on major EUROPEAN novels.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  LITR202/INTS204   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an overview of the literary production of representative
EUROPEAN novelists studied in the historical and societal context
LITR 203   European Drama   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will focus on major European novels.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-LITR203/INTS205   
Outcomes:
Students will learn how drama enhances our understanding of human
interaction, violence, social order and the margins of individual freedomLITR 204   European Film   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will focus on major European ﬁlms in order to give students
an overview of the ﬁlm production of representative European ﬁlmmakers
studied in the historical and societal context.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Film & Digital Media Studies,
Global Studies, International Film & Media Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-LITR204/INTS206/IFMS205   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of the distinctive aspects of the
major European movements such as Italian neorealism, French new wave,
New German Cinema and old and new Spanish surrealism
LITR 211   Latina Authors   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course will examine the writings of Latina authors: women writers
from diverse Hispanic backgrounds who make their home in the United
States and publish their writings in a particular form of English full of
offerings from standard Spanish, "street Spanish", regional speech, and
Spanglish.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  LITR211/INTS207   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of the principal thematic and formal
differences and similarities that characterize today's writings by Latina
authors
LITR 219   African Film   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will survey African ﬁlm from the 1960s to the present,
concentrating on the cinema of Francophone West Africa, the center of
the African ﬁlm industry.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, Global Studies,
International Film & Media Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-LITR219/INTS219/IFMS219   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of the legacies of colonialism,
identity formation, corruption and violence in post-colonial so ciety,
globalization, the positive and negative effects of tradition, and changing
sex roles in modern Africa
LITR 221   Polish Authors   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the major Polish writers from the Renaissance
through the Enlightenment and Romantic periods, and into the modern
era.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies, Polish Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-LITR221/INTS221   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of the Polish cultural traditional and
the basis of Polish cultural identity
LITR 225   Russian Masterpieces   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will study 18th, 19th, and 20th century Russian literature,
including poetry, drama, and ﬁction.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-LITR225/INTS225   
Outcomes:
Students will learn of the importance of Pushkin, Russia's most influential
poet and about influential Russian psychological realists - Gogol,
Turgenev, Dostoevsky, Tolstoy and Chekhov

--- Page 152 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 183
LITR 230   German Masterpieces   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students will study German novels or other literary texts in which German
authors explore their historical and human experience and reflect on the
process of literary creation.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-LITR230/INTS230   
Outcomes:
Student will gain or enhance their abilities to examine the portrayal of
human values in literary texts
LITR 238   Arabic Literature in Translation   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course is a survey of Arabic literature in translation with a focus on
continuity and change, influence, and major trends, themes, and genres.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Arabic Language and Culture, Global Studies,
Islamic World Studies   
Course equivalencies:  LITR238/INTS238/IWS238   
Outcomes:
Students will gain a foundational knowledge of literature in the Arabic
language
LITR 243   South Asian Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will explore literature originally written in languages of
the Indian sub-continent such as Hindi, Urdu, Bengali, Assamese, or
Tamil. Themes such as nationalism, the Partition experience, communal
identities, gender and class may be highlighted.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-LIT243/INTS243/ASIA243   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of how social hierarchies, gendered
structures, and religious differences are central issues in the historical
and social evolution of South Asian nations
LITR 244   Indian Film   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will provide an introduction to popular cinema (Bollywood),
as well as regional and parallel cinema, to arrive at an assessment of the
link between culture and nationalism in modern South Asia.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Film & Digital Media Studies, Global
Studies, International Film & Media Studies   
Course equivalencies:  LITR244/INTS244/IFMS/ASIA244   
Outcomes:
Students will be introduced to political and socio-cultural issues including
religious, gender, and caste identities as reflected in and refracted
through South Asian cinema; We will examine the conventions of popular
cinema in contrast to the "realism" of parallel cinema
LITR 245   Asian Masterpieces   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course will study masterpieces of Asian literature in a variety of
literary genres in their cultural context.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-LITR245/INTS245/ASIA245   
Outcomes:
Students will gain a signiﬁcant understanding of how Asian lite rary works
reflect their Asian cultural contextLITR 260   Italian Masterpieces   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will focus on major Italian literary works in order to give
students an overview of the literary production of representatives, Italian
poets and writers studied in the historical, art-historical and societal
context.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  LITR260/INTS260   
Outcomes:
Students will understand how the importance of key authors in shaping
the Italian cultural imagination and their great influence on European
culture
LITR 262   Modern Italian Novel   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will provide an introduction to the 20th century Italian novel
and will examine literary works in the historical and societal context.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-LITR262/INTS262   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of the transformation of Italian
society in the 20th century
LITR 264   Italian Film Genre   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will feature celebrated ﬁlms of the Italian comic tradition
from the age of "commedia all'italiana" in the 1950's to the present.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Film & Digital Media Studies,
Global Studies, International Film & Media Studies, Italian American
Studies, Italian Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-LITR264/INTS264/IFMS264   
Outcomes:
Students will learn to understand and appreciate Italian comic ﬁlms and
gain insights into the Italian national character
LITR 267   Italian Film History   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will focus on major Italian ﬁlms in order to give students an
overview of the development of representative Italian ﬁlmmakers studied
in the historical and societal context.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Film & Digital Media Studies,
Global Studies, International Film & Media Studies, Italian American
Studies, Italian Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-LITR267/INTS267/IFMS267   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of the importance of ﬁlm art in the
Italian 20th and 21st century cultural traditions
LITR 268   Italy: Cultural History   (3 Credit Hours)   
This interdisciplinary, multimedia course provides a comprehensive view
of Italian civilization from its origins in Classical Antiquity to the present,
and includes an overview of the history of architecture and art from the
Greco-Roman period and the Renaissance to the modern period as well
as the study of Italian political, social, religious and cultural development
through examination of key literary and other texts.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies, Italian American
Studies, Italian Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-LITR268/INTS268   
Outcomes:
Students will develop a critical consciousness of the importance of a
multidisciplinary panoramic overview of Italy's rich past as they explore
the Italy of today

--- Page 153 ---
184  College of Arts and Sciences
LITR 268R   Italian Culture: Food & Wine   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course deals with the history of Italian cuisine and wines through
centuries up to present day. It outlines the development and change
of taste, how it has been affected and deﬁned by historical events. A
dynamic pattern of society is thus given by the intersections among
history, culture, food and wines. The course will also offer on-site classes
and guest speakers. Students will demonstrate an historical appreciation
of the change in eating and drinking habits in modern Italy, and a
knowledge of Italy's move towards a more ethnic and global taste.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies, Italian American
Studies, Italian Studies   
LITR 280   World Masterpieces in Translation   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course will study literary masterpieces, in translation, of a selected
culture or nation.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  LITR280/INTS280   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an appreciation of the literary masterpieces of another
culture or nation
LITR 283   Major Authors in Translation   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
G3This course will study the works of selected authors, in translation, of a
selected culture or nation.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  LITR283/INTS283   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an appreciation of the writings of authors of another
culture or nation
LITR 284   International Film   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will study selected ﬁlms of a speciﬁc nation, region, or
culture.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, Global Studies,
International Film & Media Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-LITR284/INTS284   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an appreciation of the cinematic themes and
techniques of another culture or nation
LITR 287   Topics in Asian Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces students to representative works of Asian
literature within their cultural, historical, and aesthetic contexts.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-LITR287/INTS287   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze literary texts of a particular genre and
write critical essays on the works read in the courseLITR 290   Classical Chinese Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a survey of the classical Chinese literature from ancient
time to the fall of Qing Dynasty.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Chinese Language & Culture, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will reach aesthetical appreciations and cultural understandings
of classical Chinese literature, and grasp the styles and creative skills
of different Chinese poets and writers; They will learn to read literary
texts within their particular Chinese social, historical, cultural and mental
contexts
LITR 291   Italian & Italian-American Women Writers   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a comparative study of 20th century Italian & Italian-
American writers from different periods and geographic areas. What
unites these writers in addition to their nationality and ethnicity is that
the city of Rome played a central role in their development as artists.
Special emphasis will be given to the construction of the female and male
subject; ties among women, and the dynamic interplay of gender, politics,
spirituality, etc.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Italian American Studies, Italian
Studies, Women & Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
To identify the differences between women and men who hail from
different parts of Italy and different immigrant communities in America,
while highlighting their common national heritage; To understand the city
of Rome as having played a central role in literary history from the 19th
century to the present
LITR 292   Modern Chinese Fiction   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces selected ﬁctional works by some of the most
insightful writers of modern China. The course focuses on signiﬁcant
aspects of these works with an objective to enhance students'
fascination with and skill in the reading and analysis of modern Chinese
ﬁction. Knowledge of modern Chinese ﬁction will enable students to
understand central aspects of 20th century Chinese culture.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Chinese Language & Culture, Global
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-LITR292/ASIA292/INTS290   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze literary texts of a particular historical
period and write critical essays on works read in the course
LITR 299   Comparative Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will examine literary themes and problems of the instructor's
choice in multiple literary traditions. Literary theory will be an important
component of the course.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-LITR299/INTS299   
LITR 392   Theories of Myth   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course surveys important models used to interpret the mythology of
Classical Greece and Rome and other cultures.
Course equivalencies:  X-CLST392/LITR392   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate a sophisticated understanding
of different interpretive theories applicable to mythology, their
advantages and limitations; They should be able to apply these theories
and to demonstrate what learning may be derived from them

--- Page 154 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 185
Mathematical Sciences (MATH)
MATH 100   Intermediate Algebra   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Math Placement Test   
This course covers the fundamentals of algebra, ranging from linear
equations and their graphs through exponents and systems of equations.
Course equivalencies:  ACMAT100/MATH100   
Outcomes:
Students will receive the preparation needed to use algebra in other
courses or, if they plan to take calculus, to enroll in Precalculus I
MATH 108   Real World Modeling with Mathematics   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course investigates mathematical modeling applied to a variety of
topics such as linear programming, coding information, probability and
statistics, scheduling problems and social choice.
Knowledge Area:  Quantitative Knowledge   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the usefulness of mathematical modeling in
a variety of disciplines within the life sciences, the social sciences, and
business; This course satisﬁes the quantitative literacy requirement of
the core curriculum
MATH 110   Business Precalculus   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (MATH100 or math placement of MATH117 or above)
AND (Declared major in the Quinlan School of Business OR the ECON-BA
Major)   
A one-semester course in precalculus designed for business students. It
includes the study of functions, their graphs, and their basic properties.
Techniques for solving equations involving linear, quadratic, polynomial,
exponential and logarithmic functions are explored, and ideas like
inverse functions are developed. An emphasis is placed on business
applications.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to work with and analyze polynomial, logarithmic
and exponential functions using a variety of techniques and apply those
skills in a variety of contexts, especially business applications
MATH 117   Precalculus I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Math Placement Test or MATH 100   
This course covers a variety of algebraic topics, including functions
and their applications, graph transformations, composition and inverse
functions, as well as polynomial and rational functions.
Course equivalencies:  ACMAT 117/MATH 117   
Outcomes:
Students who plan to study calculus will obtain the algebraic b ackground
needed to enroll in Precalculus II
MATH 118   Precalculus II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Math Placement Test or MATH 117   
This course covers topics ranging from exponential and logarithmic
functions to trigonometric functions. It also considers applications of
these topics in various settings.
Course equivalencies:  MATH 118/ ACMAT 118   
Outcomes:
Students will obtain the background needed to enroll in either of the
department's calculus sequences
MATH 123   Topics   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Freshman Mathematics/Statistics Seminar (1-3 Credit Hours): A
freshman seminar with no prerequisites on topics in the mathematical
sciences drawn from algebra, geometry, statistics, and their applications.MATH 130   Business Calculus   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (MATH110 or MATH118 or math placement of MATH131
or 161) AND (Declared major in the Quinlan School of Business OR the
ECON-BA Major)   
An introduction to calculus focused on business applications. The
following topics are considered: modeling change using algebraic,
exponential and logarithmic functions, derivatives, optimization,
integration, functions of two variables, and partial derivatives.
Outcomes:
Students will understand and be able to use methods of calculus
(especially differential calculus) and be able to apply these in a variety of
contexts, especially business applications
MATH 131   Applied Calculus I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Math Placement Test or MATH 118   
An introduction to differential and integral calculus, with an emphasis on
applications. This course is intended for students in the life and social
sciences, computer science, and business. Topics include: modeling
change using functions including exponential and trigonometric
functions, the concept of the derivative, computing the derivative,
applications of the derivative to business and life, social and computer
sciences, and an introduction to integration.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics, Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an understanding of calculus and methods
for applying calculus (especially differential calculus), including
modeling/analyzing processes (such as population growth and
cooling), interpreting the derivative (numerical, graphical, and algebraic),
and optimization (such as ﬁnding the time and level for a peak drug
concentration)
MATH 132   Applied Calculus II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 131   
This course is a continuation of MATH 131. Topics include: deﬁnition and
interpretations of the integral (numerically, graphically, and algebraically),
basic techniques for computing anti-derivatives, applications to
probability, an introduction to multi-variable calculus and optimization
for functions of several variables, and mathematical modeling using
differential equations. (This course is not a substitute for MATH 162.)
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics, Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an understanding of integral and multi-variable
calculus, including modeling/analyzing processes with the integral,
optimization of functions of several variables, and modeling with
differential equations
MATH 140L   Geometry for Middle Grade Teachers   (3 Credit Hours)   
The content covered in this course will include: Area, perimeter, volume,
surface area, Properties of two and three dimensional ﬁgures, points,
lines, planes, space, the Pythagorean theorem, transformations, fractals,
tessellations, perspective drawings and informal proofs. The material
covered will address Illinois Learning Standard Goal 7 and Goal 9 and
related content performance descriptors for educators. The course is
designed for Elementary education majors that wish to enhance, enrich
and deepen their knowledge of Geometry and apply for a 6th-8th grade
Mathematics endorsement from the State of Illinois. Mathematics
Content Area Standards 7 (Measurement) and 9 (Geometry) from the
Content-Area Standards for Educators document published by the Illinois
State Board of Education will be emphasized.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an understanding of the geometry topics taught in
the middle grade mathematics curriculum

--- Page 155 ---
186  College of Arts and Sciences
MATH 141L   Number Theory for Middle Grade Teachers   (3 Credit Hours)   
Greatest common divisors, prime factorization, decimal fractions,
continued fractions, primes, composite numbers, tests for divis ibility,
perfect numbers, polygonal numbers, numbers bases, and patterns in
addition and multiplication tables are a sample of the topics covered.
(Illinois Learning Standard Goal 6 and related performance descriptors).
Appropriate use of technology (spread sheets, CAS, etc.) will also be
addressed.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an understanding of topics from Number Theory that
are addressed in the middle grade mathematics curriculum
MATH 142L   History of Mathematics for Middle Grade Teachers   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course will provide a thematic approach to the history of
mathematics with emphasis on contributions by noted mathematicians,
mathematical societies and scientists highlighting women and under-
represented populations. The history of numbers and numerals,
computation, geometry, algebra, trigonometry, calculus, and science
patterns will be explored emphasizing the contributions of the
Babylonian, Egyptian, Chinese, and Roman civilizations as well as such
individuals as Euclid, Fermat, Archimedes, Kepler, Pythagoras, Euler,
Hypatia, Sonjs Kovalevsky, Emmy Noether and others as appropriate. The
influence of technology and its applications will also be presented as
appropriate.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain a unique historical perspective on the various
areas of mathematics that are studied in the middle grade mathematics
curriculum
MATH 143L   Probability and Statistics for Middle Grade Teachers   (3
Credit Hours)   
Data collection and display, simulations, surveys, probability and
elementary statistics such as mean, median, mode, standard deviation,
etc. will be the focus of this course (Illinois Learning Standa rd Goal
10) Appropriate techniques for graphing (scatter plots, histograms,
regression, correlation) with and without technology will be a focus of
this course.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain a background in the fundamentals of descriptive
and inferential statistics, along with an understanding of their uses and
misuses, as addressed in middle school mathematics curriculum
MATH 147   Mathematics For Teachers I   (3 Credit Hours)   
For course description, see CIEP 104.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  X-CIEP104/MATH147   
MATH 148   Mathematics For Teachers II   (3 Credit Hours)   
For course description, see CIEP 105.
Course equivalencies:  X-CIEP105/MATH148   
MATH 149   Intro to Computer Science For Teachers   (3 Credit Hours)   
For prerequisite and description, see COMP 120.
Course equivalencies:  X-COMP120/MATH149   MATH 161   Calculus I   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Math Placement Test or MATH 118   
This course provides a standard introduction to differential and integral
calculus and covers topics ranging from functions and limits to
derivatives and their applications to deﬁnite and indeﬁnite integrals and
the fundamental theorem of calculus and their applications.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics, Forensic Science   
Course equivalencies:  ACMAT 161/MATH 161   
Outcomes:
Students will obtain a theoretical understanding of principles of
differential and integral calculus, will demonstrate computational skills
in support of reasoning and interpretation, and will apply concepts such
as the derivative and the integral to modeling processes; Students will be
able to make use of a wide variety of techniques of differentiation
MATH 162   Calculus II   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 161   
This course is a continuation of Calculus I and includes the calculus of
various classes of functions, techniques of integration, applications of
integral calculus, three-dimensional geometry, and differentiation and
integration in two variables.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics   
Course equivalencies:  ACMAT 162/MATH 162   
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an understanding of techniques for ﬁnding anti-
derivatives, and applications of the integral to questions in three-
dimensional geometry and physics; Students will obtain conceptual
understanding about functions of several variables and apply these
concepts to optimization and integration questions for functions of
two variables; Students will employ techniques for solving differential
equations and their applications
MATH 162A   Calculus II, Alternate   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 161   
This course is a continuation of Calculus I and includes the calculus
of various classes of functions, techniques of integration, applications
of integral calculus, sequences and inﬁnite series, and an introduction
to differential equations. This course follows a traditional approach to
calculus sequencing.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics   
Outcomes:
Students will obtain the background needed for further study in
mathematics and to apply mathematics in the physical sciences
MATH 170   Service Learning in Mathematics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  B+ or higher in any of the following (MATH 118 or
MATH 131 or MATH 132 or MATH 161 or MATH 162 or MATH 263 or
MATH 263A)   
Students will learn best practices to communicate mathematical
concepts and skills to diverse populations by engaging in tutoring
mathematics to the undergraduate population at Loyola. This course
is designed to promote and encourage engagement and rigor in
mathematical concepts and skills among the diverse communities of
learners at Loyola.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students in this course will deepen their understanding of mathematical
concepts and skills and be able to communicate this effectively to
diverse communities of learners

--- Page 156 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 187
MATH 201   Introduction to Discrete Mathematics & Number Theory   (3
Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 161   
This course covers topics from discrete mathematics and number theory,
areas of mathematics not seen in calculus courses and abundant in
applications, that provide students with the concepts and techniques of
mathematical proof needed in 300 level courses in mathematics.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an understanding of the basic concepts and
techniques involved in constructing rigorous proofs of mathematical
statements
MATH 212   Linear Algebra   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 132 or MATH 162 or MATH 162A   
This course provides an introduction to linear algebra in abstract vector
spaces with an emphasis on Rn, covering topics such as Gaussian
elimination, matrix algebra, linear independence and spanning, linear
transformations and eigenvalues; software packages such as MAPLE
may be used.
Outcomes:
Students will receive an introduction to abstract mathematics in a setting
that encourages the thinking needed in more advanced mathematics
courses
MATH 215   Object-Oriented Programming with Mathematics   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 132 or MATH 162 or MATH 162A   
This is an introductory programming course for students interested in
mathematics and scientiﬁc computing. Students will program primarily in
a general object-oriented language such as Python, with supplementary
exercises in a computer algebra system. Examples will be drawn
primarily from applications of calculus, elementary number theory, and
cryptography.
Course equivalencies:  X-COMP215/MATH215   
Outcomes:
Students will learn basic scripting and object-oriented programming, with
the goal of being able to solve mathematical and scientiﬁc problems
MATH 263   Multivariable Calculus   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 162   
This course covers the differential and integral calculus of multivariable
and vector valued functions, and sequences and inﬁnite series,
culminating with Green's Theorem, the Divergence Theorem, and Stokes'
Theorem.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an understanding of multivariable calculus and
its applications, as well as background needed for the study of more
advanced mathematics
MATH 263A   Multivariable Calculus, Alternate   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 162A   
This course covers the differential and integral calculus of multivariable
and vector valued functions, culminating with Green's Theorem, the
Divergence Theorem, and Stokes' Theorem. This course follows a
traditional approach to calculus sequencing.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an understanding of multivariable calculus and
its applications, as well as background needed for the study of more
advanced mathematicsMATH 264   Ordinary Differential Equations   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 263 or MATH 263A (Can also be a corequisite)   
This course covers the theory, solution techniques, and applications
surrounding linear and non-linear ﬁrst- and second-order differential
equations, including systems of equations.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an understanding of elementary differential
equations and their applications
MATH 266   Differential Equations and Linear Algebra   (3 Credit Hours)   
Co-requisites:  MATH 263 or MATH 263A   
This course provides an introduction to basic topics in ordinary
differential equations and linear algebra. Topics include ﬁrst and second-
order differential equations, Laplace transform, systems of ﬁrst-order
differential equations, systems of linear algebraic equations, matrix
algebra, bases and dimension for vector spaces, linear independence,
linear transformations, determinants, eigenvalues, and eigenvectors.
Prerequisites or
Outcomes:
Students will learn fundamental results and methods in ordinary
differential equations and linear algebra, with a strong emphasis on
topics that are particularly relevant for Engineering Science
MATH 277   Problem-Solving Seminar   (1 Credit Hour)   
In a seminar setting, students discuss and present proofs (or computer
examples) as solutions to regional and national mathematics contest
problems usually involving techniques drawn from elementary logic,
calculus of one and several variables, combinatorics, number theory,
geometry, basic algebra, and abstract algebra. Learning Outcome: To
improve a student's ability to communicate mathematically and to
strengthen the student's problem-solving skills.
MATH 298   Research Seminar in Mathematics   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 162 or MATH 162A   
A seminar-style course that covers various topics about how to conduct
research in mathematical sciences while engaging students in active
research projects with faculty mentors.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an initial insight into a number of areas of advanced
study in mathematics
MATH 301   History of Mathematics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 132 or MATH 162 or MATH 162A   
This course explores selected topics in the history of mathematics
ranging from Babylonian and Egyptian mathematics to Pythagoras and
Euclid to the Hindu-Arabic numeration system to Newton and Leibniz to
geometries other that Euclid's to the mathematical art of Escher.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain a unique historical perspective on the various areas
of mathematics that they are studying in their other courses
MATH 304   Introduction to Probability   (3 Credit Hours)   
For prerequisites and description, see STAT 304.
Course equivalencies:  X-MATH304/STAT304   
MATH 305   Introduction to Mathematical Statistics   (3 Credit Hours)   
For prerequisites and description, see STAT 305.
Course equivalencies:  X-MATH305/STAT305   
MATH 306   Intro to Stochastic Processes   (3 Credit Hours)   
For prerequisites and description, see STAT 306.
Course equivalencies:  X-MATH306/STAT306   

--- Page 157 ---
188  College of Arts and Sciences
MATH 309   Numerical Methods   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (COMP 170 or COMP 215) and [(MATH 212 and MATH 264)
or MATH 266]   
An introduction to numerical techniques for solving mathematical
problems where exact solutions are impractical or computationally
intensive. Topics include numerical errors, root ﬁnding, interpolation
and approximation, solutions to systems of linear equations, numerical
differentiation and integration, numerical solutions to ordinary and partial
differential equations equations, and other selected topics.
Course equivalencies:  X-COMP309/MATH309   
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an understanding of how numerical methods can be
used in a variety of areas of mathematics
MATH 313   Abstract Algebra   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 201 and 212   
This course provides a rigorous introduction to the study of structures
such as groups, rings, and ﬁelds; emphasis is on the theory of
groups with topics such as subgroups, cyclic groups, Abelian groups,
permutation groups, homomorphisms, cosets, and factor groups.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to read, understand, and communicate arguments
about group theory and abstract algebraic structures, preparing them for
further advanced work in mathematics
MATH 314   Advanced Topics Abstract Algebra   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 313   
This course studies advanced algebraic systems with an emphasis on
rings and ﬁelds, culminating with the Galois theory of equations.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to read, understand, and communicate arguments
about rings, ﬁelds and abstract algebraic structures, preparing them for
further advanced work in mathematics
MATH 315   Advanced Topics in Linear Algebra   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 313   
This course offers a rigorous abstract approach to vector spaces and
transformations, including similarity, duality, canonical forms, inner
products, bilinear forms, Hermitian and unitary spaces, and other
selected topics.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an understanding of advanced linear algebra
structures that will prepare them for graduate level work in mathematics
and industry work involving mathematics
MATH 318   Combinatorics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 162 or MATH 162A   
This course offers a rigorous introduction to combinatorics, including
topics such as induction, the pigeon-hole principle, permutations,
combinations, recurrence relations, generating functions, the inclusion-
exclusion principle, and other selected topics.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an understanding of the basic topics in
combinatorics that will prepare them for advanced study of related topics
in mathematics and computer scienceMATH 320   Mathematical Logic   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 201   
This course in modern mathematical logic begins with a study of
propositional logic and leads to the study of ﬁrst-order predicate logic,
including quantiﬁers, models, syntax, semantics, the completeness and
compactness theorems, and other selected topics.
Outcomes:
Students will develop a fuller understanding of mathematical logic
and therefore of the underlying theory behind proofs of mathematical
assertions
MATH 322   Advanced Number Theory   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 201   
This course will cover Pythagorean triples, problems related to Fermat's
Last Theorem, Pell's equation, Fermat's method of descent, primes in
arithmetic progressions, Mersenne primes, perfect numbers, primitive
roots, primality testing, Carmichael numbers, RSA public key encryption,
quadratic residues, and quadratic reciprocity. Additional topics will be
covered as time permits.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to solve important practical and theoretical number
theory problems; Students will be exposed to both signiﬁcant recently
solved number theory problems and currently unsolved conjectures
MATH 328   Algebraic Coding Theory   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 212 or MATH 266   
Codes with algebraic structure for error control are examined. Block
codes including Hamming codes and Reed-Muller codes, BCH codes, and
other cyclic codes and their implementation are treated. Other topics may
include: convolutional codes, efﬁciency considerations, and Shannon's
fundamental theorem of information theory.
Course equivalencies:  X-MATH328/COMP328   
MATH 331   Cryptography   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Theoretical Foundations: MATH201 or COMP363;
Programming Foundations: COMP125 or COMP150 or COMP170 or
COMP/MATH 215   
This course introduces the formal foundations of cryptography and also
investigates some well-known standards and protocols, including private
and public key cryptosystems, hashing, digital signatures, RSA, DSS, PGP ,
and related topics.
Course equivalencies:  X-COMP331/MATH331   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of cryptosystems widely used to
protect data security on the internet, and be able to apply the ideas in
new situations as needed
MATH 344   Geometry   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 212   
This course discusses axiomatic systems which deﬁne geometries and
includes topics from synthetic and analytic projective geometry.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an understanding of the many different geometries
that are studied by teachers and researchers

--- Page 158 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 189
MATH 345   Introduction to Financial Mathematics Derivatives   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (MATH 264 or MATH 266) and MATH 304   
The course provides an introduction to the mathematical theory of option
pricing. We will rigorously derive option relationships using no arbitrage
conditions, introduce rudimentary stochastic calculus and Brownian
motion as models for stock prices, and give an introduction to methods
for solving partial differential equations to give explicit Black-Scholes
formulas.
Outcomes:
The students will gain knowledge of the theory of options, bond and
stock pricing, portfolio optimization, and will be exposed to other relevant
applications of Mathematics to Finance
MATH 351   Introduction to Real Analysis I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 201 and (MATH 263 or MATH 263A) and (MATH 212
or MATH 266)   
An introduction to the topology of, and to the functions on the real line
or more general metric spaces. Topics include sequences, including
sequences of functions, completeness, compactness, continuity, uniform
continuity, and differentiation.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an understanding of the fundamentals of real
analysis that will prepare them for advanced work in mathematics
MATH 352   Introduction to Real Analysis II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 351   
A continuation of MATH 351. Topics include Riemann integration,
series, including series of functions, and select topics in continuity and
differentiation of multivariable functions, ﬁxed point, implicit and inverse
function theorems.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an understanding of topics in advanced analysis that
will prepare them for graduate level work in mathematics
MATH 353   Introduction to Complex Analysis   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (MATH 264 and MATH 266) and MATH 351   
An introduction to the algebra and geometry of complex numbers,
topology of the complex plane, and the theory of functions of a complex
variable, including: analytic functions, contour integrals, the Cauchy
integral formula, harmonic functions, Laurent series, residues and poles,
the Fundamental Theorem of Algebra, and other selected topics.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an understanding of the fundamentals of complex
analysis that will prepare them for advanced work in mathematics
MATH 355   Methods of Applied Mathematics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 264   
Vector calculus, linear transformations, matrices, series solutions of
differential equations, special functions; Fourier series, Fourier and
Laplace transforms; Partial differential equations and topics from
complex analysis, Green's functions, integral equations, the calculus of
variations.
Course equivalencies:  X-PHYS301/PHYS271/MATH355   
Outcomes:
Facility with mathematical methods used in sciences and engineeringMATH 356   Introduction to Mathematical Modeling   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 266 or (MATH 264 and MATH 212)   
This course will teach students how to use various areas of mathematics,
such as vector calculus, linear algebra, and/or differential equations, to
formulate and analyze mathematical models in, for example, mechanics,
physics, biology, economics, etc.
Outcomes:
Students will learn how to use the tools from previous mathematics
classes to formulate models of real world phenomena
MATH 358   Introduction to Optimization   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (MATH 162 or MATH 263A) and (MATH 212 or MATH 266)   
The course is an introduction to linear, nonlinear, and integer optimization,
and may include optimization on graphs, stochastic optimization, etc.
Modeling of real-life problems as optimization problems, mathematical
analysis of resulting optimization problems, and computational
approaches to solving the problems will be covered.
Course equivalencies:  X-MATH358/STAT358   
Outcomes:
Students will learn how to recognize optimization problems, model real-
life challenges as optimization problems, perform mathematical analysis
of the problems, and solve the problems using computational tools
MATH 360   Introduction to Game Theory   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 162 or MATH 162A   
The noncooperative and cooperative theories of games. Two person zero
sum matrix games, nonzero sum N-person games, Nash equilibria of
games with a continuum of strategies, auctions, duels. Cooperat ive game
theory, including the theory of bargaining, the theory of fair allocation of
rewards using the nucleolus and using the Shapley value.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an understanding of the fundamentals of
mathematical game theory and will be able to apply this knowledge in a
variety of settings
MATH 365   Introduction to Partial Differential Equations   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 264 or MATH 266   
This course provides an introduction to basic topics in partial differential
equations (PDE). In addition to ﬁrst order PDE, such as the transport
equation, the main types of second order PDE, including the Laplace
equation, the heat equation, and the wave equation, will be studied in
detail.
Outcomes:
Students will learn fundamental results and methods in partial differential
equations and their applications
MATH 366   Applied Dynamical Systems   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 266 Linear Algebra and Differential Equations
or (MATH 264 Ordinary Differential Equations and MATH 212 Linear
Algebra)   
Modeling, analysis, and prediction of short-term and asymptotic behavior
of dynamical systems is studied. Continuous-time and discrete-time
dynamical systems are considered, and modeled by differential and
difference equations, respectively. Motivation comes from biological,
chemical, mechanical, and engineering systems. Students will learn how
to model dynamical systems and predict their behavior.

--- Page 159 ---
190  College of Arts and Sciences
MATH 376   Formal Language & Automata   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 163 or MATH 201 or MATH 212 or MATH 266   
This course introduces formal language theory, including such topics
as ﬁnite automata and regular expressions, pushdown automata and
context-free grammars, Turing machines, undecidability, and the halting
problem.
Course equivalencies:  X-COMP376/MATH376   
Outcomes:
An understanding of the theoretical underpinnings of computability and
complexity in computer science
MATH 386   Introduction to Topology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 201 and 212 This ﬁrst course in topology discusses
topological spaces, continuity, connectedness and path-connectedness,
compactness, product spaces, quotient spaces, metric spaces,
countability and separation axioms, and other selected topics   
No course description is available
Outcomes:
Students will obtain a background in topology that will allow them to
apply this topic to other areas of mathematics or to pursue graduate
studies
MATH 388   Special Topics in Mathematics   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
This course covers advanced topics in mathematics, including analysis,
topology, algebra, applied mathematics, and logic.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an understanding of an advanced topic in their major
MATH 390   Advanced Research Seminar in Mathematics   (2 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 304/STAT 304 or MATH 313 or MATH 351   
The seminar will cultivate students' presentation skills through
participation in and critical discussion of brief lectures on familiar and
unfamiliar topics; preparation and presentation of two brief lectures by
the student (one on a familiar topic from the curriculum, one on a higher
level material not customarily from the curriculum); and preparation of an
extended abstract summarizing the advanced material presented.
Outcomes:
Students will gain the ability to present material in Mathematics and
applications to a general audience
MATH 395   Capstone Seminar   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 313 Abstract Algebra, MATH 351 Introduction to
Real Analysis I, and MATH 390 Undergraduate Seminar   
The course uniﬁes the knowledge gained in previous Mathematics
courses and provides an opportunity for in-depth study and presentation
of advanced material not usually covered in the standard Mathematics
curriculum.
Outcomes:
Students will learn how to integrate previous knowledge in exploring new
topics in Mathematics, discover applications to other disciplines, and
reﬁne their mathematical writing and presentation skills
MATH 398   Independent Study   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
This course allows students to engage in independent study on selected
topics in mathematics under the supervision of a faculty member.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an understanding of an advanced topic in their majorMedieval Studies (MSTU)
MSTU 300   Integrative Experience I   (1.5 Credit Hours)   
This course is the ﬁrst in a two-semester sequence of courses designed
to provide students with a synoptic view of the ﬁeld of Medieval Studies
and train them to do cross-disciplinary work within that ﬁeld.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Medieval Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to produce original research on some topic
pertaining to the Middle Ages that utilizes and integrates no less than
two methodologies drawn from diverse disciplines
MSTU 301   Integrative Experience II   (1.5 Credit Hours)   
This course is the second in a two-semester sequence of courses
designed to provide students with a synoptic view of the ﬁeld of Medieval
Studies and train them to do cross-disciplinary work within that ﬁeld.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Medieval Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to produce original research on some topic
pertaining to the Middle Ages that utilizes and integrates no less than
two methodologies drawn from diverse disciplines
Modern Greek (MDGK)
MDGK 101   Introduction to Modern Greek I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course develops basic skills in pronunciation, vocabulary, grammar,
reading, listening comprehension and oral and written communication
within the context of Greek culture.
Outcomes:
Students will learn to actively communicate in Greek, write simple
sentences, read uncomplicated selections, understand spoken Greek in
everyday contexts and gain an appreciation of contemporary Greece
MDGK 102   Introduction to Modern Greek II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MDGK 101   
This course develops basic skills in pronunciation, vocabulary, grammar,
reading, listening comprehension and oral and written communication
within the context of Greek culture.
Outcomes:
Students will learn to actively communicate in Greek, making
spontaneous use of structures and vocabulary studied, write simple
sentences, read uncomplicated selections, understand spoken Greek in
everyday contexts and gain an appreciation of contemporary Greece
Military Science (MLSC)
MLSC 101   Introduction to the Army   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  This course is open to all students   
MLSC 101 consists of both lecture and lab sections. Focuses on
introduction to the Army and basic Soldier skills. Students receive an
introduction to the Army Profession and examine what it means to be a
professional in the U.S. Army.
Outcomes:
Understand the basic structure of the US Army and its customs and
courtesies; Accept the Army as a Values-based organization and embrace
the scholar-athlete-warrior ethos

--- Page 160 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 191
MLSC 102   Foundations of Leadership   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  This course is open to all students   
MLSC 102 consists of both lecture and lab sections. Introduces students
to the personal challenges and competencies that are critical for effective
leadership.
Outcomes:
Understand the basic structure of the US Army and its customs and
courtesies; Accept the Army as a Values-based organization and embrace
the scholar-athlete-warrior ethos
MLSC 201   Leadership and Ethics   (2 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  This course is open to all students   
MLSC 201 consists of both lecture and lab sections. Focuses on
leadership and ethics. Adds depth to the student's knowledge of the
different leadership styles.
Outcomes:
Student grounded in foundational leadership doctrine and skills,
comprehends critical thinking, problem-solving, and value of diversity,
understands the ofﬁcer's role in leading change and the Army as a
profession
MLSC 202   Army Doctrine and Decision Making   (2 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  This course is open to all students   
MLSC 202 consists of both lecture and lab sections. Focuses on Army
doctrine and decision making. Begins with analytical techniques , creative
thinking skills and the Army problem solving process as related to
situations faced by leaders when making decisions.
Outcomes:
Student grounded in foundational leadership doctrine and skills,
comprehends critical thinking, problem-solving, and value of diversity,
understands the ofﬁcer's role in leading change and the Army as a
profession
MLSC 250   Physical Readiness Training   (1 Credit Hour)   
This course is designed to develop the ﬁtness capabilities of future Army
ofﬁcers. Students will be introduced to and become proﬁcient in the
physical components of muscular strength, muscular endurance, aerobic
endurance, anaerobic endurance, and power.
Outcomes:
Future Army ofﬁcers ready to meet the physical demands of any duty or
combat position, move lethally on the battleﬁeld, accomplish the mission
and continue to ﬁght, win, and come home healthy
MLSC 301   Training Management and the Warﬁghting Functions   (3
Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Restricted to ROTC students; MLSC 202 or departmental
consent is required   
MLSC 301 consists of both lecture and lab sections. Focuses on training
management and the warﬁghting functions. Student will study, practice,
and apply the fundamentals of Training Management and how the Army
operates through the Warﬁghting Functions.
Outcomes:
Student who possesses enhanced individual and collective skills,
effectively leads formations in various scenarios, effective at receiving
and giving peer evaluations, committed and disciplined ethically,
academically, physically, and sociallyMLSC 302   Applied Leadership in Small Unit Operations   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Restricted to ROTC students; MLSC 301 or departmental
consent is required   
MLSC 302 consists of both lecture and lab sections; focuses on
applied leadership in small unit operations; analyze, test, and relate the
fundamentals of direct level leadership and small unit tactics at the
platoon level.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Student who possesses enhanced individual and collective skills,
effectively leads formations in various scenarios, effective at receiving
and giving peer evaluations, committed and disciplined ethically,
academically, physically, and socially; Successful completion of this
course will help prepare contracted Army ROTC students for the Cadet
Summer Training Advance Camp, which students normally attend
summer of junior year at Fort Knox, KY
MLSC 311   The Army Ofﬁcer   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Restricted to ROTC students   
MLSC 302 or departmental consent is required. MLSC 311 consists of
both lecture and lab sections. Focuses on development of the Army
Ofﬁcer. Students will learn about Army programs that support counseling
subordinates and evaluating performance, values and ethics, career
planning, and legal responsibilities.
Outcomes:
Produces a leader of character possessing a professional identity, who
thrives in operationally ambiguous environments and is a moral exemplar
and skilled critical thinker, problem solver, and team builder
MLSC 312   Company Grade Leadership   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Restricted to ROTC students   
MLSC 311 or departmental consent is required. MLSC 312 consists of
both lecture and lab sections. Develop knowledge, skills, and abilities
required of junior ofﬁcers pertaining to the Army in Multidomain
Operations and Company Grade Ofﬁcer roles and responsibilities.
Outcomes:
Produces a leader of character possessing a professional identity, who
thrives in operationally ambiguous environments and is a moral exemplar
and skilled critical thinker, problem solver, and team builder; Successful
completion of this course will assist in preparing contracted ROTC
students for the Basic Ofﬁcer Leadership Course-B and is a mand atory
requirement for commissioning
MLSC 399   Military History - Independent Study   (3 Credit Hours)   
This is an online, independent study course and is open to all students.
This course provides students with a historical perspective into decisions
made by American military leaders; challenges encountered as an
Army ofﬁcer - battleﬁeld complexity, resource limitations, teamwork
deﬁciencies - circumstances that are faced on the contemporary
operational environment and are required to make an informed decision.
Outcomes:
Upon completing this course students will understand the history of the
United States military, the decisions that have accompanied its changes
and inevitably be a stronger and more decisive leader

--- Page 161 ---
192  College of Arts and Sciences
Music (MUSC)
MUSC 101   Music: Art of Listening   (3 Credit Hours)   
Focus is on the acquisition and enhancement of listening skills through
direct experience of musical works along with an examination of cross-
cultural similarities and differences among musical styles. Concert
attendance is required.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Outcomes:
A cultivation of musical perception through a process of repeated and
guided listening; strengthening of listening skills while developing and
expanding styles perspectives
MUSC 102   Class Piano for Beginners   (3 Credit Hours)   
For the student who has never had keyboard instruction and is interested
in learning the art of performance on the piano. Fundamentals of music
theory, note reading and personal enjoyment are emphasized. Strongly
recommended for those preparing to teach music in elementary school.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Outcomes:
A basic keyboard ability with an emphasis on reading music symbols
accurately while also enjoying the making and doing of music
MUSC 103   Class Guitar for Beginners   (3 Credit Hours)   
For the student who has never had guitar instruction and is interested
in learning the art of performance on the guitar. Fundamentals of music
theory, note reading and personal enjoyment are emphasized. Strongly
recommended for those preparing to teach music in elementary school.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Outcomes:
A basic guitar ability with an emphasis on reading music symbols
accurately while also enjoying the making and doing of music
MUSC 104   Gospel Choir   (1 Credit Hour)   
Admission through audition. A mixed ensemble of singers performing
primarily Gospel music (Spirituals, Blues, etc). Admission through
audition. The choir participates in at least one public performance each
semester. May be repeated to a limit of eight hours.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  X-MUSC104/BWS 104   
Outcomes:
Students gain proper vocal/choral technique and knowledge of the
musical literature offered each semester through rehearsal and
performance; They reflect on their personal and collective artistic growth
through the process
MUSC 105   Symphony Orchestra   (1 Credit Hour)   
Admission through audition. The study and performance of standard
orchestral literature. Students must provide their own instruments and
should have previous ensemble experience. The ensemble gives at least
two concerts each semester.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students gain proper instrumental technique and knowledge of the
musical literature offered each semester through rehearsal and
performance; Students reflect on their personal and collective artistic
growth throughout the processMUSC 106   Guitar Ensemble   (1 Credit Hour)   
Admission through audition. For advanced guitarists. The study,
rehearsal and performance of transcriptions and original works for guitar
ensemble. Repertoire from the Renaissance through the present will be
performed. Students must provide their own instruments. Gives at least
one concert each semester.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students gain proper guitar technique and knowledge of the musical
literature offered each semester through rehearsal and performance;
Students reflect on their personal and collective artistic growth
throughout the process
MUSC 107   Chorus   (1 Credit Hour)   
University Chorus is a topics course in ensemble singing devoted to
the study, rehearsal and performance of standard choral literature of all
periods. Admission through audition. Gives at least two performances
each semester. Some sections require audition for admission.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students improve their vocal/choral technique and knowledge of the
musical literature through rehearsal and performance; They reflect on
their personal and collective artistic growth throughout the performance
process
MUSC 108   Liturgical Choir: Cantorum   (1 Credit Hour)   
Admission through audition. An SATB ensemble providing music for the
Sunday liturgies in Madonna della Strada Chapel and other university
liturgical and choral functions and concerts. Repertoire includes both
traditional and contemporary sacred music. Admission through audition.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students gain proper vocal/choral technique and knowledge of the
musical literature offered each semester through rehearsal and
performance; Students reflect on their personal and collective artistic
throughout the performance process
MUSC 109   Jazz Ensemble   (1 Credit Hour)   
Admission through audition. Rehearsal and performance of standard
Jazz and Big Band music. Members must have previous Jazz Band
experience. Performs publicly at least twice each semester of the
academic year.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  X-MUSC109/BWS 109   
Outcomes:
Students improve instrumental technique and gain knowledge of the
musical literature offered through rehearsal and performance; Students
reflect on their personal and collective artistic growth throughout the
performance process
MUSC 110   Wind Ensemble   (1 Credit Hour)   
Admission through audition. The study and performance of standard
wind ensemble literature. Students must provide their own instruments
and should have previous ensemble experience. The ensemble gives at
least two concerts each semester.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students improve instrumental technique and gain knowledge of the
musical literature offered through rehearsal and performance; Students
reflect on their personal and collective artistic growth throughout the
performance process

--- Page 162 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 193
MUSC 111   Percussion Ensemble   (1 Credit Hour)   
Enrollment Requirements: Audition and permission of the instructor. The
study and performance of standard percussion ensemble literature. The
ensemble gives at least two concerts each semester.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students improve instrumental technique and gain knowledge of the
musical literature offered through rehearsal and performance; Students
reflect on their personal and collective artistic growth throughout the
performance process
MUSC 112   Loyola University Technology Ensemble   (1 Credit Hour)   
Loyola University Technology Ensemble (LUTE) is a performing
ensemble with a composition & engineering component. Its primary
instrumentation is electronic or electroacoustic, encompassing digital
and analogue electronic instruments, live coding, circuit bending, and
repurposing of devices or objects, etc. LUTE will appear in public at least
once during each semester.
Course equivalencies:  X-COMP 112/MUSC 112   
Outcomes:
Collaborate to compose, engineer, and perform unique technology-driven
musical experiences; design interface modules for electroacoustic
performance; encode musical ideas in software or digital musical
instruments; perform publicly
MUSC 122   Introduction to Digital Music   (3 Credit Hours)   
Computers and digital tools have been seeping into the world of music,
and this course aims to explore this newly formed territory. This course
is intended for students who wish to learn more about electronic music,
signal processing, and algorithmic music composition. Understanding
of the physics of musical sound and digital audio, facility with hands-
on applications of algorithmic music composition and musicology, and
ability to design and render digital instruments.
Knowledge Area:  Quantitative Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  X-COMP 122/MUSC 122   
MUSC 142   Class Voice for Beginners   (3 Credit Hours)   
For the student who has never had voice instruction and is interested
in learning the art of vocal performance. Fundamentals of music
theory, note reading and personal enjoyment are emphasized. Strongly
recommended for those preparing to teach in elementary school.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Course equivalencies:  THTR242/THTR142/MUSC142   
Outcomes:
A basic vocal ability with an emphasis on reading music symbols
accurately while also enjoying the making and doing of music
MUSC 144   Music Theory I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Co-requisites:  MUSC 145   
An introduction to the fundamentals of melodic construction in all the
diatonic modes (major/minor and modal) and culminates in control
of two-part counterpoint. Melodies will be examined and broken down
into their essential components. The class strengthens the basic
musicianship skills of the student through performance of the students'
written compositions illustrating the class concepts. Must be t aken
concurrently with MUSC 145.
Outcomes:
Through the study of melody students will develop an understanding of
musical notation, the organization and color of all diatonic scales (major/
minor and modal), interaction between intervals, transposition and its
implications, rhythmic and beat structure, and begin developing critical
analysis skillsMUSC 145   Musicianship Lab I   (1 Credit Hour)   
Co-requisites:  MUSC 144   
This course reinforces concepts presented in Music Theory I and
introduces students to the basic concepts of sight singing, ear training
and dictation. The voice is the class's primary focus. This course must be
taken concurrently with MUSC 144.
Outcomes:
Recognize Music Theory I concepts by ear, dictate accurately those
concepts, and recreate them on the voice and piano; Apply these
concepts to student's primary instrument
MUSC 153   The Music of China   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course surveys the broad range of Chinese musical traditions as
well as the practice of ﬁeldwork, music theory and methodological issues
encountered in Chinese music studies.
Outcomes:
Students will identify Chinese musical traditions throughout history and
their connections to the Chinese language, history, cultural and religious
studies and politics
MUSC 154   Intro to Opera   (3 Credit Hours)   
Survey of opera from 1600 to the present and consideration of opera
as an art form which combines music and drama. Analysis of libretto
structure and study of the variety of operatic styles are included.
Course equivalencies:  X-MUSC154/THTR154   
Outcomes:
Fundamental acquaintance with a wide selection of operatic literature
and the principle eras of the European and American traditions
MUSC 154R   Introduction to Opera in Rome   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course offers the student an overview of the development of opera
in Europe with a particular emphasis on some of the most representative
Italian operas and authors from the 17th to the 20th century. As the
course considers opera as a cultural phenomenon, the historical,
intellectual, political, social, religious and economic conditions that
influenced the development of this art will be also examined.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Italian Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-MUSC154/THTR154   
Outcomes:
Students will acquire the basic understanding the cultural phenomenon
of opera and the style differences of different historical periods, as well
as musical terms
MUSC 155   Intro to Symphonic Music   (3 Credit Hours)   
Survey of the principal forms of orchestral music from the Baroque to the
present. Course will include: the symphony, concerto suite, overture, and
symphonic poems. (Also offered at Rome Center.)
Outcomes:
Functional knowledge of the language and grammar of music through
selected analysis and experience of speciﬁc symphonic literature
MUSC 156   Intro to Jazz   (3 Credit Hours)   
Survey of the development of jazz emphasizing the major trends and
artists of this unique American style. Listening skills will be developed.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora   
Course equivalencies:  X-MUSC156/BWS 156   
Outcomes:
Functional knowledge of the language and grammar of this uniquely
American music through selected analysis and experience of speciﬁc jazz
literature

--- Page 163 ---
194  College of Arts and Sciences
MUSC 157   America Popular Song   (3 Credit Hours)   
Survey of American popular song from the early 19th century minstrel
shows to the present. The evolution of this music and its relationship to
society will be studied. Listening skills will be developed.
Outcomes:
Functional knowledge of the language and grammar of popular music
through selected analysis and experience of speciﬁc repertoire
MUSC 161   Music in United States   (3 Credit Hours)   
An historical survey and guided listening experience of the evolution of
music in the United States from the earliest inhabitants and settlers to
the dawn of the 21st century. Special emphasis will be given to a selected
era and/or music type.
Outcomes:
An understanding of the societal influences on the music of the United
States and an appreciation of its music repertoire
MUSC 185   Jazz Improvisation   (3 Credit Hours)   
Previous basic understanding of theory and analysis is essential.
Fundamentals will be expanded and enhanced through writing, listening
and performing. An emphasis will be placed on learning the jazz language
by ear. Students will also learn to read lead sheets and chord symbols,
developing the ability to apply the jazz language to the repertoire.
Outcomes:
Appreciation for and ability to create and perform jazz improvisation
MUSC 186   Jazz Arranging   (3 Credit Hours)   
Fundamentals of composition and arranging will be expanded and
enhanced through writing and listening. Students will learn information
about the instrumentation of the big band, instrument ranges, and how
to use software to make arrangements. Previous basic understanding of
theory and analysis is essential.
MUSC 201   Music Technology I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This introductory course in Music Technology is designed to introduce
students to MIDI orchestration, sequencing and digital audio editing. The
course is designed to present software and hardware as tools for the
creation of sound design as musical composition.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
Outcomes:
Demonstrate proﬁciency in using software as a musical instrument to
orchestrate, perform and record
MUSC 202   Class Piano II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MUSC 102 or permission of the instructor   
This applied group class is designed for students who have successfully
completed MUSC 102, or have previously attained a similar level of
proﬁciency. Emphasis is on a variety of styles and levels of keyboard
repertoire to promote a balance of new information with musical material
that reinforce concepts.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate basic keyboard skills, piano repertoire and
musical styles, to express themselves musically at the piano
MUSC 203   Class Guitar II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MUSC 103 or permission of the department   
This course is a continuation of (MUSC 103) or a previously attained
equivalent level of study and musical skill development. Throughout the
course students reﬁne technical skills and music theory as applied to the
guitar. Students perform in both solo and ensemble settings.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an ongoing development of coordination skills,
ﬁngerboard knowledge, sight-reading skills, performance practices and
intermediate repertoire knowledgeMUSC 207   Chamber Choir   (1 Credit Hour)   
Audition Required. An ensemble of advanced singers performing works
written especially for the smaller choir. Performance of music from all
historical periods suitable for this type of choir. The choir participates
in at least two public performances each semester. Admission through
audition. May be repeated for up to eight credit hours.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students gain knowledge of the musical literature offered through
rehearsal and performance, while integrating proper vocal/choral
technique; Students reflect on their personal and collective artistic
growth throughout the performance process
MUSC 244   Music Theory II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MUSC 144; Corequisite: MUSC 245   
An introduction to the fundamentals of harmonic progressions controlled
through either expansion of a tonic-dominant phrase structure,
elaborations of two-part counterpoint structures, or control of the three
basic root motion models. Music will be analyzed using chord matrixes
and reductions into two-part frameworks. The class strengthens the
basic musicianship skills through performance students' compositions
illustrating the class concepts. Must be taken concurrently with
MUSC 245.
Outcomes:
Through the study of harmony students will develop an understanding
of all chord types, root motion, cadence types, how tonal music expands
upon the basic tonic-dominant phrase, voice leading techniques, and
begins exploring the techniques of chromaticism and modulation; The
class will also further develop the student's critical analysis skills
MUSC 245   Musicianship Lab II   (1 Credit Hour)   
Co-requisites:  MUSC 244   
Students build on basic voice and board skills acquired in Musicianship
Lab I and reinforce concepts introduced in Music Theory II by recreating
the concepts on the keyboard and voice. This course must be taken
concurrently with MUSC 244.
Outcomes:
Recognize Music Theory II concepts by ear, dictate accurately those
concepts, and recreate them on the voice and piano; Apply these
concepts to student's primary instrument
MUSC 246   Composition I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Course deals with the study of music theory and simple and binary forms.
In addition to that, students compose an original piece of music for two
instruments that receives public performance.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Through the study of relevant music scores, students learn the principles
of composition and instrumentation to then apply them to their own
compositions
MUSC 247   Composition II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MUSC 246   
This course deals with the study of melody, counterpoint, harmony, and
shorter forms. In addition to the study of theory and form, students
compose an original piece of music for two instruments that is presented
professionally at a public performance.
Outcomes:
Through the study of related scores and with the supervision of
instructor, students compose an original work for violin and piano or
violoncello and piano

--- Page 164 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 195
MUSC 248   Jazz Composition and Arranging   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MUSC 144   
A study of the harmonic, melodic, and rhythmic theories that lead to the
ability to compose and arrange in the jazz idiom. Emphasis will be placed
on common harmonic progressions, scale / chord relationships, melody,
song forms, and extended harmony and reharmonization. Students
will also learn the basic principles of arranging and music notation,
culminating in a ﬁnal composition and arranging project for jazz quintet.
Outcomes:
The ability to compose and arrange music for small jazz combos of up to
two horns plus rhythm section
MUSC 252   Music History I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MUSC 144 and MUSC 145 or taken concurrently   
European music from the Medieval to the early Baroque where vocal
music dominated, and the study of counterpoint led to the birth of
harmony.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies   
Outcomes:
Through listening, performance and study students demonstrate an
understanding of how melodic composition gave rise to harmony and
formed the foundation of Western music
MUSC 255   Music in Catholic Worship   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MUSC 252   
This course will trace the development of music in liturgy from Gregorian
chant through Vatican II and to the present, examining repertoire
and forms, musical and theological trends, and how music has been
employed in the expression of the living prayer of the Roman Catholic
Church through the centuries.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-MUSC255/CATH255   
Outcomes:
Students can identify the major shifts and movements of music in the
Catholic Church from the Middle Ages to the present, including the shifts
represented by the Second Vatican Council
MUSC 256   Jazz Music History   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a historical and listening survey exploring the development
of jazz music from its origins at the turn of the 20th century to the
music of the present era. Many styles of jazz and a multitude of
important musicians will be discussed, as well as important cultural and
sociological aspects of the art form.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Italian American Studies   
Outcomes:
Through listening, lecture, required reading, and concert attendance, the
student will gain an understanding of the basic musical elements of jazz,
it's musical and sociological contexts, and how these elements have
developed and changed over the music's varied history
MUSC 260   Conducting   (3 Credit Hours)   
The student will acquire a personal conducting style through study and
practical application and will develop the basic skills that make one an
effective, well-rounded conductor.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate rudimentary skills of conducting: including
conducting patterns, cues, score reading and analysisMUSC 261   Lyric Diction I: Italian and German   (1 Credit Hour)   
This course will acquaint students with the rules of diction in the two
major languages of classical singing, German and Italian. Students will
gain both a theoretical understanding of the rules of diction and the
practical ability to make the relevant sounds and sing in these languages.
Concurrent enrollment in 280K Applied Music: Voice is required.
Outcomes:
To successfully transcribe Italian and German into IPA; To learn and
produce all of the relevant sounds of German and Italian; To sing in
German and Italian with accurate diction
MUSC 262   Lyric Diction II: French and Other Languages   (1 Credit Hour)   
This course will acquaint the student with the rules of French, English
and Latin. Students will gain both a theoretical understanding of the rules
of diction and the practical ability to make relevant sounds and sing in
these languages. Concurrent enrollment in 280K Applied Music: Voice is
required.
Outcomes:
To successfully transcribe French, English and Latin texts into IPA; To
learn to produce all of the relevant sounds of French; To sing in French,
English and Latin with accurate diction
MUSC 280A   Applied Music: Clarinet   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 30-minute individual lessons in clarinet. Performance
opportunities including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-
semester jury. May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 280AA   Applied Music: Conducting   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  MUSC 144, MUSC 145, MUSC 244, MUSC 245, MUSC 260   
Twelve 30-minute individual lessons in conducting. Topics include:
baton techniques, gestural mechanics, ear training, score study,
transpositions, orchestrational basics, phrasing, and chord recognition.
Choral, orchestral, or wind band considerations will be explored in greater
detail, according to the background of the student.
Outcomes:
Advanced skills in conducting both small and large ensembles, score
study, rehearsal, and concert programming
MUSC 280B   Applied Music: Percussion   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 30-minute individual lessons in percussion. Performance
opportunities including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-
semester jury. May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 280BB   Applied Music: Improvisation   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  MUSC 144, 145, 244, 245, 185, 385   
Twelve 30-minute individual lessons in improvisation. Building upon a
strong theoretical foundation attained from the prerequisite courses,
students receive focused instruction on the harmonic, melodic, and
rhythmic theories that lead to the ability to improvise. Students may
study with any of the jazz faculty regardless of their primary instrument.
Outcomes:
Students will learn to improvise over intermediate to advanced tunes in
the jazz repertoire

--- Page 165 ---
196  College of Arts and Sciences
MUSC 280C   Applied Music: Oboe   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 30-minute individual lessons in oboe. Performance opportunities
including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-semeste r jury.
May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 280E   Applied Music: Trumpet   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 30-minute individual lessons in trumpet. Performance
opportunities including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-
semester jury. May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 280F   Applied Music: Saxophone   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 30-minute individual lessons in saxophone. Performance
opportunities including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-
semester jury. May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 280G   Applied Music: Guitar   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 30-minute individual lessons in classical or electric guitar.
Performance opportunities including studio classes, Honors Recital, and
an end-of-semester jury. May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 280I   Applied Music: Organ   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 30-minute individual lessons in organ. Performance opportunities
including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-semeste r jury.
May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 280J   Applied Music: Piano   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 30-minute individual lessons in piano. Performance opportunities
including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-semeste r jury.
May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 280K   Applied Music: Voice   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 30-minute individual lessons in voice. Performance opportunities
including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-semeste r jury.
May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 280L   Applied Music: Violin   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 30-minute individual lessons in violin. Performance opportunities
including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-semeste r jury.
May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical developmentMUSC 280M   Applied Music: Flute   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 30-minute individual lessons in flute. Performance opportunities
including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-semeste r jury.
May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 280N   Applied Music: Cello   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 30-minute individual lessons in cello. Performance opportunities
including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-semeste r jury.
May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 280O   Applied Music: Double Bass   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 30-minute individual lessons in double bass. Performance
opportunities including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-
semester jury. May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 280P   Applied Music: Viola   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 30-minute individual lessons in viola. Performance opportunities
including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-semeste r jury.
May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 280Q   Applied Music: Horn   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 30-minute individual lessons in horn. Performance opportunities
including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-semeste r jury.
May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 280R   Applied Music: Trombone   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 30-minute individual lessons in trombone. Performance
opportunities including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-
semester jury. May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 280S   Applied Music: Harp   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 30-minute individual lessons in harp. Performance opportunities
including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-semeste r jury.
May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 280U   Applied Music: Drum Set   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 30-minute individual lessons in drum set. Performance
opportunities including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-
semester jury. May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development

--- Page 166 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 197
MUSC 280V   Applied Music: Tuba   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 30-minute individual lessons in tuba. Performance opportunities
including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-semeste r jury.
May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 280Y   Applied Music: Bassoon   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 30-minute individual lessons in bassoon. Performance
opportunities including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-
semester jury. May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 280Z   Applied Music: Composition   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  MUSC 144, 244,145, 245; 246 or 248   
Twelve 30-minute individual lessons. Building upon a strong theoretical
foundation attained from the prerequisite courses, students receive
focused instruction to develop original compositions from concept
to completion. Idioms, genres, forms, instrumentation, and other
considerations will vary from student to student. May be repeated for up
to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
The ability to more fully develop original musical ideas into completed,
and professionally notated, compositions
MUSC 289   Chamber Ensemble   (1 Credit Hour)   
Admission by audition. Small group applied music study through
ensemble playing. One or more public performance is required.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students gain knowledge of the musical literature offered and improve
their ensemble playing skills through rehearsal and performance;
Students reflect on their personal and collective artistic growth
throughout the performance process
MUSC 290   Jazz Combo   (1 Credit Hour)   
Small group applied jazz music study through ensemble playing. One or
more public performance is required. Enrollment Conditions: Audition and
permission of the instructor
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students gain knowledge of the musical literature and improve their
ensemble playing skills through rehearsal and performance; Students
reflect on their personal and collective artistic growth throughout the
performance process
MUSC 320   Rehearsal and Performance   (1 Credit Hour)   
This course allows students to receive credit for performing in an on-
campus production during the semester. Completion and submission of a
journal or paper is required. Permission of department is required.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   MUSC 326   Digital Music Programming   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP/MUSC 122, MUSC 201, COMP 125, COMP 150,
COMP 170, or permission of instructor   
This course is an exploration of coding for music applications.
Topics include digital audio and synthesis theory and basic, musical
data structures, and principles of computer music composition and
interactivity. Students will design synthesis and sampling instruments,
algorithmic music generators, signal processors, and interactive control
systems using one or more music programming languages.
Course equivalencies:  X-COMP 326/MUSC 326   
Outcomes:
Create software modules for processing digital audio, MIDI, and
generative music; develop interactive interfaces; export applications or
modules; produce a portfolio of creative projects in areas of real-time
audio/MIDI processing
MUSC 333   Music and Ritual in Catholic Liturgical Life   (3 Credit Hours)   
Drawing both from liturgical documents and the ritual texts themselves,
this course explores how the theology and spirituality of our Catholic
tradition are expressed in the music, liturgies, and rituals of the Roman
Catholic Church.
Outcomes:
Students are conversant with the components, structure, and musical
elements of the Catholic liturgy and how the Mass interacts with the
spiritual and cultural lives of the faithful
MUSC 344   Music Theory III   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MUSC 244 or permission of chair   
Study of large compositional forms and the extended harmonic
vocabulary of music of the 19th century. Continued development of aural,
keyboard, sight-singing, compositional and analytical skills in class,
computer lab and small group sessions.
Outcomes:
Expansion and deepening of knowledge of the language and grammar
of music and their interaction; Ability to use this understanding in both
written and aural analysis and to form and defend evaluative judgments
about music
MUSC 345   Music Theory IV   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MUSC 344 or permission of chair   
Continued examination of the structural aspects of music with a focus
on contrapuntal forms. Study of the compositional vocabularies of 20th
century music. Continued development of aural, keyboard, sightsinging,
compositional and analytical skills in class, computer lab and weekly
skills sessions.
Outcomes:
Expansion and deepening of knowledge of the language and grammar
of music and their interaction; Ability to use this understanding in both
written and aural analysis and to form and defend evaluative judgments
about music
MUSC 347   Composition III   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MUSC 247   
Course provides students with the ability to compose an original work for
string quartet and examines larger forms, chromatic harmony, extended
tonality, and modern techniques.
Outcomes:
Through the writing of original music and the study of related scores
students demonstrate an understanding of musical forms and
techniques and the ability to compose music for string quartet

--- Page 167 ---
198  College of Arts and Sciences
MUSC 353   Music History II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MUSC 244 and MUSC 245   
A new shared musical language spreads through Europe during
the Baroque through Romantic period giving rise to the best known
composers of Western music.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Course equivalencies:  MUSC353 / MUSC253   
Outcomes:
Students demonstrate an understanding of how composers developed
music during this common practice period to create some of the most
well known works of the Western cannon
MUSC 354   Music History III   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MUSC 244 and MUSC 245   
Composers in the modern era turn to innovative and foreign influences
as technological developments allow the Western musical tradition to
spread throughout the world.
Course equivalencies:  MUSC354 / MUSC254   
Outcomes:
Students are able to identify and articulate the many musical innovations
and movements that helped turn Western music into a global force of
expression
MUSC 363   Foundations of Vocal Technique and Pedagogy   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course will acquaint students with the basics of anatomy and
physiology associated with singing technique, including the anatomy
of the larynx, the structure of posture and breathing, and the physics of
resonance. Additional topics will include vocal registers, healthy use of
voice, and the basics of vocal instruction. Recognize healthy modes of
phonation across musical styles. Learn to structure a voice lesson.
Outcomes:
Identify the major anatomical structures used in singing and their
function
MUSC 364   Vocal Repertoire   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course covers a broad spectrum of vocal repertoire from 1600 to the
present. Emphasis will be given to the application of stylistic conventions
and the development of effective performance skills, culminating in
public performance.
Outcomes:
To gain knowledge of important vocal repertoire and history; To develop
the creative capacity to perform vocal music of different styles and eras
MUSC 365   Vocal Performance Workshop   (3 Credit Hours)   
The class aims to develop students' ability to deliver compelling
performances on the musical stage. The ﬁrst portion of the semester
is focused on gaining and applying theoretical knowledge of acting for
the singer. The second portion of the class focuses on preparing and
performing opera/musical scenes.
Outcomes:
Acquire foundational skills in acting for singers / Learn basics of
stagecraft for musical production / Perform operatic and/or musical
theatre scenes
MUSC 370   The Business of Music   (3 Credit Hours)   
The Business of Music will offer a broad overview as to how the music
industry works and provide insight into various career options. The
course will include weekly discussions on current events in the music
industry as they occur and feature a host of guest speakers. Students will
also learn about the recording industry, music publishing, and the digital
music world.
Outcomes:
An understanding of careers in the areas of performance, composition,
production, management, education, and radioMUSC 374   Musical Theatre Repertoire   (4 Credit Hours)   
This capstone repertoire course synthesizes musical theatre history,
theory and performance. It is designed to develop students' ability to
perform vocally, dramatically and physically within the canon of musical
theatre repertoire. It culminates in a musical theatre showcase which
features student performance of the repertoire learned in class.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the history of musical
theatre performance by comparing the work of signiﬁcant composers,
directors and choreographers and demonstrate understanding of the
intrinsic requirements for effective synthesis of vocal, dramatic and
dance performance
MUSC 380A   Applied Music Advanced: Clarinet   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 60-minute individual lessons in clarinet. Performance
opportunities including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-
semester jury. May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 380AA   Applied Music Advanced: Conducting   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  MUSC 144, MUSC 145, MUSC 244, MUSC 245, MUSC 260   
Twelve 60-minute individual lessons in conducting. Topics include:
baton techniques, gestural mechanics, ear training, score study,
transpositions, orchestrational basics, phrasing, and chord recognition.
Choral, orchestral, or wind band considerations will be explored in greater
detail, according to the background of the student.
Outcomes:
Advanced skills in conducting both small and large ensembles, score
study, rehearsal, and concert programming
MUSC 380B   Applied Music Advanced: Percussion   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 60-minute individual lessons in percussion. Performance
opportunities including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-
semester jury. May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 380BB   Applied Music Advanced: Improvisation   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  MUSC 144, 145, 244, 245, 185, 385   
Twelve 60-minute individual lessons in improvisation. Building upon a
strong theoretical foundation attained from the prerequisite courses,
students receive focused instruction on the harmonic, melodic, and
rhythmic theories that lead to the ability to improvise. Students may
study with any of the jazz faculty regardless of their primary instrument.
Outcomes:
Students will learn to improvise over intermediate to advanced tunes in
the jazz repertoire
MUSC 380C   Applied Music Advanced: Oboe   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 60-minute individual lessons in oboe. Performance opportunities
including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-semeste r jury.
May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development

--- Page 168 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 199
MUSC 380E   Applied Music Advanced: Trumpet   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 60-minute individual lessons in trumpet. Performance
opportunities including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-
semester jury. May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 380F   Applied Music Advanced: Saxophone   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 60-minute individual lessons in saxophone. Performance
opportunities including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-
semester jury. May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 380G   Applied Music Advanced: Guitar   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 60-minute individual lessons in classical or electric guitar.
Performance opportunities including studio classes, Honors Recital, and
an end-of-semester jury. May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 380I   Applied Music Advanced: Organ   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 60-minute individual lessons in organ. Performance opportunities
including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-semeste r jury.
May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 380J   Applied Music Advanced: Piano   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 60-minute individual lessons in piano. Performance opportunities
including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-semeste r jury.
May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 380K   Applied Music Advanced: Voice   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 60-minute individual lessons in voice. Performance opportunities
including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-semeste r jury.
May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 380L   Applied Music Advanced: Violin   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 60-minute individual lessons in violin. Performance opportunities
including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-semeste r jury.
May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 380M   Applied Music Advanced: Flute   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 60-minute individual lessons in flute. Performance opportunities
including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-semeste r jury.
May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical developmentMUSC 380N   Applied Music Advanced: Cello   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 60-minute individual lessons in cello. Performance opportunities
including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-semeste r jury.
May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 380O   Applied Music Advanced: Double Bass   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 60-minute individual lessons in double bass. Performance
opportunities including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-
semester jury. May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 380P   Applied Music Advanced: Viola   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 60-minute individual lessons in viola. Performance opportunities
including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-semeste r jury.
May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 380Q   Applied Music Advanced: Horn   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 60-minute individual lessons in horn. Performance opportunities
including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-semeste r jury.
May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 380R   Applied Music: Advanced Trombone   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 60-minute individual lessons in trombone. Performance
opportunities including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-
semester jury. May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 380S   Applied Music Advanced: Harp   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 60-minute individual lessons in harp. Performance opportunities
including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-semeste r jury.
May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 380U   Applied Music Advanced: Drum Set   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 60-minute individual lessons in drum set. Performance
opportunities including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-
semester jury. May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 380V   Applied Music Advanced: Tuba   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 60-minute individual lessons in tuba. Performance opportunities
including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-semeste r jury.
May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development

--- Page 169 ---
200  College of Arts and Sciences
MUSC 380Y   Applied Music Advanced: Bassoon   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 60-minute individual lessons in bassoon. Performance
opportunities including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-
semester jury. May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 380Z   Applied Music Advanced: Composition   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  MUSC 144, 244,145, 245; 246 or 248   
Twelve 60-minute individual lessons. Building upon a strong theoretical
foundation attained from the prerequisite courses, students receive
focused instruction to develop original compositions from concept
to completion. Idioms, genres, forms, instrumentation, and other
considerations will vary from student to student. May be repeated for up
to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
The ability to more fully develop original musical ideas into completed,
and professionally notated, compositions
MUSC 385   Jazz Improvisation II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MUSC 185 Jazz Improvisation   
A continued study of the harmonic, melodic, and rhythmic theories that
lead to the ability to improvise in the jazz genre. Emphasis is on ear
training, listening, extended harmony, motivic development, rhythm, and
scale /chord relationships.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to construct bass lines, build four-part chordal
accompaniment at the piano, and improvise melodies and improvise over
intermediate to advanced tunes in the jazz
MUSC 386   Orchestration   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MUSIC 144 or permission of chair   
Immersion in the art of writing for the instruments of the orchestra
in order to understand and write /arrange music for the indigenous
capability of each instrument while achieving desired sound effects.
Outcomes:
Ability to score effectively for every instrumental family and also to write/
arrange music for any instrumental ensemble
MUSC 387   Solo Recital: MUSC Capstone   (1-4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Department's permission and audition   
Preparation and presentation of a full-length, balanced program by
memory in one's major area of performance. This may be taken twice for
credit.
Outcomes:
For the performance-oriented student, the capstone of 4 years of applied
study as well as fulﬁllment of an experience required by graduate schools
for performance majors
MUSC 388   Lecture/Recital: MUSC Capstone   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Music Major only   
A directed studies capstone experience course. Project proposal must
be approved by the course advisor by the end of the ﬁrst week of the
semester. A Public presentation of the project is required. Examples of
appropriate capstone projects include, a performance of a composition,
paper presentation, digital music design for a commercial product,
conduct a chamber ensemble or the creation of a music installation.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Synthesize previous course work into a public presentation in the
students' area of interestMUSC 389   Topics in Music   (1-9 Credit Hours)   
Speciﬁc course titles and content will vary. May be taken as directed
study under the supervision of a designated faculty member for
independent or small group research in special areas of interest. Because
of variations described, students may repeat the course for a total of six
hours.
Outcomes:
Opportunity to experience a music elective which is not ordinarily in the
music offerings and thus enables individual enhancement of unique
interests
MUSC 394   Internship in Music   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
Music students complete a semester long internship providing an
opportunity to use their technical, research or organizations skills in
a professional setting. Students must complete and reflect upon 50
hours of internship experience per credit hour that is pre-approved by
the Department of Fine and Performing Arts. Department permission
required. No more than 6 credit hours of Internship or Fieldwork can be
applied to the major.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students gain professional experience working at a music organization
while reflecting on their work experience and applying theories and
techniques acquired from their music courses
MUSC 397   Fieldwork in Chicago - Music   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
Variable credit (1-6 hours) given for performances or projects undertaken
with professional music organizations outside the university. Students
keep a journal and write evaluative papers. Permission of the Department
of Fine and Performing Arts Required. Repeatable for up to 6 credit hours,
however no more than 6 credit hours can be applied towards the major.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Speciﬁc outcomes and credit hours to be assigned to be determined by
the student in consultation with the Director of Music and the project
supervisor
MUSC 399   Independent Study   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  written permission of chairperson   
Independent study projects may be of various kinds and in any
recognized area of the theatre arts. Such projects should be done under
the close supervision of a music faculty member.
Outcomes:
Speciﬁc outcomes and credit hours assigned to be determined by
the student in consultation with the chairperson and theatre faculty
supervisor
Neuroscience (NEUR)
NEUR 101   Introduction to Neuroscience   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  None; Recommended: BIOL 101 and PSYC 101   
This course will introduce students to basic concepts and the variety
of topics in the ﬁeld of neuroscience, including neuroanatomy (gross
and cellular), physiology, neural basis of behavior, malfunctions due
to disease and injury, and methods used to study these areas laying a
foundation for advanced coursework in neuroscience.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Course equivalencies:  X-BIOL 202/PSYC202/NEUR 101   
Outcomes:
Knowledge of the organization of the nervous system, cellular events that
underlie emotions, learning, and behavior, and awareness of classical and
modern methods for advancing the ﬁeld

--- Page 170 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 201
NEUR 300   Seminar in Neuroscience   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  NEUR 101 with grade of C- or better   
The seminar introduces students to the interdisciplinary nature of
modern neuroscience with an emphasis on the various neuroscience
research activities that take place at Loyola University Chicago, and
reviews current neuroscience research topics. NEUR 300 is cross-listed
with BIOL 303.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Course equivalencies:  X-BIOL303/NEUR300   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of the interdisciplinary and
multidisciplinary nature of modern neuroscience, and the research
questions and experimental approaches used at the Lakeshore and
Medical Center campuses; Students will complete one midterm ess ay
and one ﬁnal essay exam that will reflect their understanding of the
topics discussed in the seminars
NEUR 301   Laboratory in Neuroscience I   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  NEUR 101, BIOL 251; and students must be either
a Molecular/Cellular Neuroscience Major, a Cognitive/Behavioral
Neuroscience major, or a Neuroscience Minor   
Students will be trained in various anatomical, physiological, behavioral,
and neurobiological modeling techniques used to study the nervous
system and the brain in the laboratory. This course is cross-listed as
NEUR 301 & PSYC 388.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Course equivalencies:  X-NEUR301/PSYC388/BIOL373   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of several research designs and
methodologies of use in neuroscience research and will gain experience
with basic neuroscience laboratory techniques
NEUR 302   Laboratory in Neuroscience II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  NEUR 301   
Students will receive additional training and experience in specialized
laboratory methods and techniques used by Loyola faculty in their
Neuroscience research. This experience will help prepare them to
contribute creatively to neuroscience research. Students will be assessed
as to the quality of 3 items: 1) a written proposal for the independent
research project; 2) a 'meeting quality' scientiﬁc poster; and 3) a written
'publication quality' scientiﬁc paper summarizing the work done for the
independent research project.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Course equivalencies:  X-BIOL374/NEUR302/PSYC389   
Outcomes:
Students will have the opportunity to conduct independent research
projects in faculty and student laboratories
Peace Studies (PAX)
PAX 201   Peace Studies Overview   (3 Credit Hours)   
A general introduction to peace studies as an area of inquiry. Students
identify concrete social justice issues and their relevance to domains of
societal, international and ecological spheres of violence and address
literature on nonviolence or limited use of violence through a critical
research paper and other course applications.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Interreligious and Interfaith Studies, Peace,
Justice, and Conflict Studies   PAX 390   Directed Readings in Peace Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
An independent program of reading and research developed in
consultation with a supervising faculty member and the PAX director. It
usually includes a review of the peace studies literature in the student's
major ﬁeld, with a ﬁnal research project that integrates the student's
major with peace studies.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies   
PAX 397   Special Topics in Peace Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
Topics relating to peace and justice issues as taught on occasion at the
upper level in other departments.
PAX 398   Practicum in Peace Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  permission of PAX director   
Supervised ﬁeld experience in a social justice- or peace-related program
or project.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies   
Philosophy (PHIL)
PHIL 130   Philosophy & Persons   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces students to the fundamental philosophical issues
that bear on our understanding of persons in three equally weighted
components, namely, Persons & Knowledge, Persons & Values, and
Persons & Reality.
Knowledge Area:  Foundational Philosophical Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  PHIL120/130/180/ACPHI130   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to explain a claim to truth, to explain theories of
value in human life, and to describe theories of the metaphysical nature
of human persons
PHIL 180   Being Human: Philosophical Perspectives   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course examines the way philosophy looks for fundamental
characteristics that identify life as a properly human life, asks about its
ultimate meaning or purpose, and raises questions about what counts as
a good life.
Course equivalencies:  PHIL120/130/180/ACPHI130   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the various
approaches of the philosophical question of what it means to be human
PHIL 181   Ethics   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a general introduction to ethics and moral philosophy.
Knowledge Area:  Ethics   
Course equivalencies:  PHIL 181 / PHIL 281 /ACPHI 281   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of criteria for
choosing between conflicting ethical theories, moral disagreement, the
justiﬁcation of moral judgments, and the application of ethical  standards
to practical decision-making and ethical questions that arise i n everyday
life
PHIL 182   Social and Political Philosophy   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will investigate one of the central questions of philosophy
and social theory: how we, as human beings, should live together.
Knowledge Area:  Ethics   
Course equivalencies:  PHIL162/182/262/282/ACPHI205   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the major
philosophical questions in the area of social philosophy with attention
to the historical and conceptual development of these questions and be
able to articulate some of the major problems and responses central to
this area of philosophy

--- Page 171 ---
202  College of Arts and Sciences
PHIL 190   Loyola's Mission: The Philosophical Vision   (3 Credit Hours)   
Enrollment is limited to transfer students with 30 or more credit hours.
The course introduces transfer students to the mission of LUC, especially
"Transformative Education, " by means of the methodology of philosophy. "
Outcomes:
Students who take the course acquire an intellectual and experiential
assimilation of LUC's mission, especially as it relates to "Transformative
Education
PHIL 191   Traditional Chinese Philosophy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students will investigate Chinese ancient philosophy in a way to
let its own tendencies be sensed and appreciated. Topics include
Confucianism, Mencius, Sunzi, Taoism, Legalism, Yin-Yang School,
Tung Chung-shu, Chinese Buddhism and Neo-Confucianism. In addition,
students learn about the relations among different schools or different
thinkers in the same school. Comparisons between Chinese philosophies
and western ones are encouraged.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Philosophical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Chinese Language & Culture   
Course equivalencies:  X-PHIL191/ASIA191   
PHIL 192   Chinese Ethics and Asian Values   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course offers an overview of the spirit of Chinese ethics, covering
sacred and secular as well as intellectual and practical elements.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Philosophical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Chinese Language & Culture, Global
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PHIL192/ASIA192/INTS192   
PHIL 193   Contemporary Chinese Philosophy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students will analyze the development of Chinese contemporary
thought in its different stages: rejection of the tradition and its recent
reevaluation.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PHIL193/ASIA193/INTS193   
PHIL 262   Social & Political Philosophy - Civic Engagement   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHIL 130   
This course will investigate one of the central questions of philosophy
and social theory: how we, as human beings, should live together.
Because it includes a service learning experience it satisﬁes the civic
engagement core requirement.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  PHIL162/182/262/282/ACPHI205   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the major
philosophical questions in the area of social philosophy with attention
to the historical and conceptual development of these questions, and be
able to articulate some of the major problems and responses central to
this area of philosophy
PHIL 263   Contemporary Ethical Issues - Civic Engagement   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHIL 130   
This course explores ethical reasoning by considering a variety of
contemporary issues in ethics. Because it includes a service learning
experience it satisﬁes the civic engagement core requirement.
Outcomes:
Students will develop a deeper appreciation of moral problems, and will
gain practice in using philosophical moral reasoningPHIL 264   Health Care Ethics - Civic Engagement   (3 Credit Hours)   
Requirement: PHIL 130 for students admitted to Loyola University for
Fall 2012 or later. No requirement for students admitted to Loyola prior
to Fall 2012 or those with a declared major or minor in the Department
of Philosophy or Department of Political Science. This course studies
philosophical ethics as practiced in the health care setting. It includes
a service-learning experience and satisﬁes the civic engagement core
requirement.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  PHL184/284BIET184PHL164BIET164   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of traditional moral
theories in a health care framework, as well as the varieties of ethical
challenges facing contemporary health care
PHIL 267   Aesthetics - Civic Engagement   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHIL 130 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
The course explores philosophical issues in aesthetics like the nature
of art and beauty through, in part, service-learning in retirement
communities and theaters, as examples.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate their understanding of aesthetics
and the value of leadership development and civic engagement
PHIL 271   Philosophy of Religion   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHIL 130 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course explores the development, not only of some classic positions
within the philosophy of religion, but also of how these views have
affected the formulation of more contemporary discussions.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Philosophical Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  PHIL 171 / PHIL 271   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the enterprise
of using reason, broadly construed, to articulate issues arising out of
religious belief and practice and to formulate and defend positions with
respect to those issues
PHIL 272   Metaphysics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHIL 130 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course examines the fundamental principles by which the nature of
reality can be explained.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Philosophical Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  PHIL 172 / PHIL 272   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the central issues
surrounding the ﬁeld of metaphysics
PHIL 273   Philosophy of Science   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHIL 130 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course examines the nature of scientiﬁc knowledge and its claim to
possess a distinctive method of inquiry.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Philosophical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Course equivalencies:  PHIL 173 / PHIL 273   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the mode of
inquiry which is the scientiﬁc method

--- Page 172 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 203
PHIL 274   Logic   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHIL 130 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course is a detailed study of the deductive methods and principles of
correct reasoning, from both the traditional and modern point of view.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Philosophical Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  PHIL 174/PHIL 274/ACPHI 274   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to formally analyze, evaluate, and demonstrate the
various aspects of argumentation
PHIL 275   Theory of Knowledge   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHIL 130 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course examines both the nature and the reliability of human
knowledge.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Philosophical Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  PHIL 175 / PHIL 275   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the various
approaches to the study of knowledge
PHIL 276   Philosophy of Mind   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a study of the different philosophical views regarding the
nature and the existence of the mind and its relation to material bodies.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Course equivalencies:  X-PSYC 276/ PHIL 276/PHIL 176   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the various
philosophical views and problems regarding the mind and its relation to
matter
PHIL 277   Aesthetics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHIL 130 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course will explore one or more of the following philosophical
questions in aesthetics: What is art? What is good art (art evaluation
or critical theory)? What is beauty? What is it about human nature that
allows us to experience beauty?
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Philosophical Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  PHIL 177 / PHIL 276   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the various
approaches to the philosophical study of beauty and the arts
PHIL 277R   Aesthetics: the Aesthetic Experience in Rome   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHIL 130 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course will explore one or more of the following philosophical
questions in aesthetics, with reference particularly to aesthetic
experience in Rome: What is art? What is good art (art evaluation
or critical theory)? What is beauty? What is it about human nature
that allows us to experience beauty? Outcomes: Students will be
able to demonstrate understanding of the various approaches to the
philosophical study of beauty and the arts.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Philosophical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Italian Studies   
Course equivalencies:  PHIL 177 / PHIL 276   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the various
approaches to the philosophical study of beauty and the artsPHIL 279   Judgment and Decision-Making   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHIL 130 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
Students can take only one course from PHIL 279, PSYC 279, PSYC 280.
This course examines the philosophical and psychological foundations of
decision-making.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Philosophical Knowledge   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the principles of
reasoning and decision-making
PHIL 283   Business Ethics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Effective Spring 2007 students who have taken and successfully
passed PHIL 185 are not eligible to take MGMT 341. This course is an
introduction to ethics which focuses on ethical issues in the world of
business and commerce.
Course equivalencies:  PHIL185/283/MGMT341/H/BHNR341   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to examine and assess various ethical theories and
apply those theories to ethical issues in business
PHIL 284   Health Care Ethics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHIL 130 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course studies philosophical ethics as practiced in the he alth care
setting.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Philosophical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Course equivalencies:  PHL184/284BIET184PHL164BIET164   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of traditional moral
theories in a health care framework, as well as the varieties of ethical
challenges facing contemporary health care
PHIL 285   Contemporary Ethical Issues   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores ethical reasoning through consideration of a
variety of contemporary issues in ethics, such as: abortion, euthanasia,
corruption, discrimination, poverty, and justice.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics, Black World Studies, Bioethics, Black
World Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will develop a deeper appreciation of moral problems and
will gain practice at using philosophical moral reasoning to come to
justiﬁable ethical choices and answers
PHIL 286   Ethics and Education   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHIL 130 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course examines philosophical ethics as it informs and guides the
activity of teaching.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Philosophical Knowledge   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to examine and assess various ethical theories and
apply those theories to ethical issues in teaching

--- Page 173 ---
204  College of Arts and Sciences
PHIL 287   Environmental Ethics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHIL 130 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course introduces students to ethical reasoning and to various
topics in environmental ethics. Topics may include: pollution, animal
rights, and natural resources.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Philosophical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Course equivalencies:  PHIL187/BIET187   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of diverse ethical theories
and an ability to use philosophical reasoning to defend positions in topics
covered
PHIL 288   Culture and Civilization   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHIL 130 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course examines the nature, causes, and possible future
development of human culture and civilization.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Philosophical Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  PHIL 288/288R   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the various
approaches to the philosophical study of human culture and civilization
PHIL 288R   Culture & Civilization in Rome   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHIL 130 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course examines the nature, causes, and possible future
development of human culture and civilization with an emphasis on
Italian philosophers during the Renaissance.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Philosophical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Italian American Studies, Italian Studies   
Course equivalencies:  PHIL 288/288R   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the various
approaches to the philosophical study of human culture and civilization
PHIL 289   Philosophy and Gender   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course considers gender as a philosophical question. Is gender
simply a biological truth, or is it a social construct? How does gender
affect our roles and opportunities in society? Should gender play a role in
discussion of human rights?
Outcomes:
The student will develop a philosophical understanding of gender and
will be able to articulate in a thoughtful manner understanding of issues
concerning ethics, society and biology concerning gender
PHIL 301   Symbolic Logic   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to the study of modern symbolic logic,
emphasizing formalization and proof construction. The student is
introduced to the terminology and chief concepts of modern logic.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to symbolically analyze, evaluate, and demonstrate
the various aspects of formal reasoning
PHIL 302   Topics in Formal Logic   (3 Credit Hours)   
Selected topic regarding logical theory or metatheory, such as the
completeness of formal systems, non-standard logics, computability,
foundational issues regarding mathematics.
Outcomes:
Students will develop an advanced understanding of the selected topic in
formal logicPHIL 304   History of Ancient Philosophy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Students must have taken at least two philosophy
courses   
This course studies the philosophies of the ancient Greeks, including the
pre-Socratics, Plato, and Aristotle.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Italian Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PHIL304/CLST304   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers representative of the ancient Greek philosophers
PHIL 305   Medieval Philosophy   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course studies the philosophies of the major thinkers of the 4th
to the 12th centuries, such as Augustine, Scotus, Boethius, Avicenna,
Anselm, Abelard, Maimonides, and Averroes.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies, Medieval
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PHIL305/CATH305/MSTU344   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers representative of the early medieval philosophers
PHIL 306   19th Century Philosophy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Students must have taken at least two philosophy
courses   
This course studies 19th century post-Kantian philosophy from idealism
toward phenomenology. May include philosophers such as Hegel,
Nietzsche, and Husserl.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, German Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers representative of 19th century post-Kantian philosophy
PHIL 307   13th & 14th Century Philosophy   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course studies major thinkers of the 13th and 14th centuries, such
as Albertus Magnus, Aquinas, Scotus, William of Ockham, Roger Bacon.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PHIL307/CATH307   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers representative of the late medieval philosophers
PHIL 308   Islamic Philosophy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Covers the development of classical Islamic philosophy from 800 to
1200 CE. Attention will be given to the central topics (God, the cosmos,
knowledge, the human good) with which Muslim philosophers were
concerned and to major ﬁgures such as Al-Kindi, Al-Farabi, Ibn Sina
(Avicenna). Al-Ghazali and Ibn Rushd (Averroes).
Interdisciplinary Option:  Islamic World Studies, Islamic World Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PHIL308THEO357MSTU334IWS308   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to articulate and discuss major philosophical
problems of concern to Muslim philosophers of the classical period
PHIL 309   Classical Modern Philosophy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Students must have taken at least two philosophy
courses   
This course studies selected philosophers from the early modern period,
such as Descartes, Spinoza, Leibniz, Locke, Hume, Berkeley, Kant.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, German Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers representative of the early modern philosophers

--- Page 174 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 205
PHIL 310   Issues in Philosophy of Human Nature   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Students must have taken at least two philosophy
courses   
This course gives intensive consideration to various issues that pertain to
being human, such as freedom, determinism, person, society, mind-body,
immortality, etc.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate a deeper awareness
of philosophical problems and answers regarding key issues of human
nature
PHIL 311   Issues in Metaphysics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Students must have taken at least two philosophy
courses   
This course studies various philosophical issues regarding the nature
of all reality, including existence, causality, relations, abstract entities,
purpose, the possibility of knowledge of reality.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate a deeper awareness of
philosophical problems and answers regarding key metaphysical issues
PHIL 312   Problems in the Philosophy of God   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Students must have taken at least two philosophy
courses   
This course studies classical and contemporary approaches to
knowledge of the existence of God, divine attributes, good and evil,
providence and human freedom.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate a deeper awareness
of philosophical problems and answers regarding philosophical views of
God
PHIL 318   Philosophy of Art   (3 Credit Hours)   
Reading and discussion of selected philosophical texts concerning the
nature of art and artistic experience.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers to questions regarding the nature of art and artistic
experience
PHIL 319   Studies in Philososphy & Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a study of selected works of literature and a discussion of
philosophical issues in relation to these works.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate a deeper awareness of
philosophical problems and answers to questions regarding the nature
of literary work, the relations of philosophical and literary language, and
methods of interpretation
PHIL 320   The Philosophy of St Augustine   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a study of the principal works of Augustine, such as the
Confessions, City of God.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, Medieval Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PHIL320/CATH320/MSTU346   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers found in the works of AugustinePHIL 321   Ethics and Society   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Students must have taken at least two philosophy
courses   
This course is a study of the rights, duties, and virtues of individuals as
members of societies, covering issues such as family and state, social
justice, international society, war, and globalization.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Sociolegal Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate a deeper awareness
of philosophical problems and answers to questions regarding ethics in
social contexts
PHIL 322   Philosophical Perspectives on Woman   (3 Credit Hours)   
Philosophical reflections on being a woman. Topics such as womanhood,
representations of women, self-respect, oppression, afﬁrmative action,
sexism, and racism.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PHIL322/WOST322/WSGS322   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate a deeper awareness of
philosophical problems and answers to questions regarding conceptions
of and experience of being a woman
PHIL 323   Philosophy of Law   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course pursues a philosophical analysis of law. It deals with topics
such as philosophical presuppositions of law, origin and purpose of law,
law as social control, current legal problems involving ethical issues.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Sociolegal Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers to questions regarding law and its applications
PHIL 324   Topics in Ethics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Students must have taken at least two philosophy
courses   
This course studies a particular topic selected from the ﬁeld of ethics.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate a deeper awareness of
philosophical problems and answers to questions regarding the selected
topic
PHIL 324B   Bioethics Minor Capstone: Philosophical Topics   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Two Science courses and two Ethics courses   
This course number will only be used when PHIL 324 is tagged with the
Bioethics Minor Capstone course.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the connection between ethical and scientiﬁc
issues with regard to the special topic in philosophy
PHIL 325   Ethics & Case Based Reasoning   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Two previous philosophy courses   
This course is an engaged learning course that provides students with a
unique opportunity to practice applying moral theories and argumentative
principles to personal and social- ethical problems, and to teach middle
school students how to do the same. The course focuses on presenting
solutions to cases and hence involves research, writing, and oral
presentation.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate a deeper awareness
of philosophical problems and answers to questions using a case based
system

--- Page 175 ---
206  College of Arts and Sciences
PHIL 326   Political Philosophy   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an examination of the major theories of politica l society,
studying important aspects of political society and their relationships to
human nature.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Sociolegal Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers to questions regarding the nature of political society in
relation to its members
PHIL 327   Topics in Political Philosophy   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will concentrate on a speciﬁc issue or issues in political
philosophy. Typical topics include civil disobedience, war and peace,
political revolution, punishment, and criminal justice.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate a deeper awareness of
philosophical problems and answers to questions regarding the selected
topic
PHIL 328   Philosophical Questions in Human Rights   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Two prior courses in Philosophy   
This course addresses questions in human rights such as the concept of
rights and its critics, sovereignty and its relation to global governance, the
role of intent, and how human rights are gendered.
Outcomes:
Students are expected to have an overview of the major legal frameworks
for human rights, as well as an understanding of several of the major
philosophical issues and related literature
PHIL 329   International Ethics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Two prior courses in either Philosophy or Political Science   
This course is intended to give students an overview of some of the major
frameworks for addressing ethical issues in the international arena. This
includes Just War doctrine, economic rights, and global governance.
Outcomes:
Students are expected to be familiar with the major treaties, international
law doctrines, and institutions relevant to international ethics, as well the
pertinent secondary literature
PHIL 330   Theory of Knowledge   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Students must have taken at least two philosophy
courses   
This course will study major philosophical positions regarding knowledge,
belief, thought and language, truth, evidence, reason, perception,
skepticism.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers to questions regarding the ﬁeld of knowledge and related
issues
PHIL 333   Language: Theories Ancient & Modern   (3 Credit Hours)   
Classical, modern, and contemporary philosophical theories on the nature
and structure of human language.
Course equivalencies:  X-LING333/PHIL333   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate some philosophical
problems and answers regarding the nature and structure of human
languagePHIL 335   Asian Philosophy   (3 Credit Hours)   
A study of fundamental tenets of major Eastern philosophies (Chinese,
Japanese, Indian) in comparison to Western tradition. Course may vary in
emphasis on particular philosophies and themes.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies, Japanese Language
and Culture   
Course equivalencies:  X-PHIL335/ASIA335/INTS334   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers to questions regarding Eastern philosophical thought
PHIL 340   Philosophy of St Thomas Aquinas   (3 Credit Hours)   
A study of the philosophy of Thomas Aquinas, including background
regarding his life and medieval context.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, Medieval Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PHIL340/MSTU348   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers to questions regarding the thought of Aquinas and its
medieval context
PHIL 342   Topics in the Catholic Philosophical Tradition   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  One class in philosophy or permission of instructor   
This course examines the Catholic philosophical tradition, beginning with
its roots in ancient Greek philosophy, through the medieval period in the
work of ﬁgures such as St. Augustine and St. Thomas Aquinas, and up to
and including contemporary Catholic philosophy.
Course equivalencies:  X-CATH 303 / PHIL 342   
Outcomes:
Students will be conversant and familiar with the Catholic philosophical
tradition throughout its history, demonstrating proﬁciency in operating
within the philosophical framework of this tradition
PHIL 344   Philosophy of Human Nature   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course explores at an advanced level the relation of human
nature and aesthetics through, in part, service-learning in retirement
communities and theaters, as examples.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate advanced understanding of
the relation between human nature and aesthetics and the value of
leadership development and civic engagement
PHIL 350   Directed Reading   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Students must have taken at least two philosophy
courses   
Independent research according to program developed jointly by the
student and a faculty director. Open to majors and to non-majors with the
permission of the chairperson.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers regarding the selected topic
PHIL 355   Neuroethics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  students must have taken at least two philosophy courses   
This course focuses on ethical considerations emerging from
contemporary research in neuroscience, as well as neuroscientiﬁc
techniques for studying ethical questions. Students will be able to
demonstrate understanding of the ways in which the study of ethics and
neuroscience inform each other
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Course equivalencies:  X - PSYC355/PHIL355   

--- Page 176 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 207
PHIL 360   Contemporary European Philosophy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Students must have taken at least two philosophy
courses   
Readings and discussion drawn from contemporary French and German
philosophers, such as Merleau-Ponty, Sartre, Heidegger, Derrida, Foucault.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers representative of contemporary French and German
philosophy
PHIL 362   The British Philosophers   (3 Credit Hours)   
Readings and discussion drawn from early modern and modern British
philosophers such as Hobbes, Locke, Hutcheson, Hume, Smith, Bentham,
Mill.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers representative of early British philosophy
PHIL 369   Philosophy of Medicine   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Students must have taken at least two philosophy
courses   
This course investigates philosophical questions concerning the practice
of medicine, such as the epistemology of medicine, the nature of health
and disease, what is a profession, and the nature of suffering.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Course equivalencies:  X-PHIL369/BIET369   
Outcomes:
The student will develop a critical understanding of the practice of
medicine from a philosophical point of view
PHIL 370   Intro to American Philosophy   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course studies American Philosophers such as Peirce, James,
Dewey, with an evaluation of their principles.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers representative of American philosophy
PHIL 374   Philosophy of History   (3 Credit Hours)   
Study of the nature of historical knowledge and of theories concerning
historical process.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers regarding history as a discipline and a historical process
PHIL 375   Philosophy of Marxism   (3 Credit Hours)   
A study of the philosophical dimensions of the thought of Karl Marx, his
19th century precursors and 20th century interpreters.
Interdisciplinary Option:  German Studies   
Course equivalencies:  PHIL394/PHIL375   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers to questions regarding the thought of Karl Marx and
Marxism
PHIL 380   Topics in Philosophy of Religion   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Students must have taken at least two philosophy
courses   
This course studies various philosophical issues regarding religion.
May include issues such as religious concepts, types of religion, divine
attributes, free will and providence, problem of evil.
Course equivalencies:  PHIL391/PHIL380   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate a deeper awareness of
philosophical problems and answers regarding key religious issuesPHIL 381   Philosophy of Science   (3 Credit Hours)   
Readings and discussion of selected texts regarding theories of scientiﬁc
methods, scientiﬁc reasoning, metaphysical foundations of science,
philosophical problems of scientiﬁc theories about physical reality.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers regarding scientiﬁc inquiry and theory
PHIL 382   Philosophy of Social Science   (3 Credit Hours)   
Study of philosophical issues in the practice of contemporary behavioral
sciences: theory, fact and value, causality, relativism, functionalism,
statistical generalization, social planning.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers regarding issues in the behavioral sciences
PHIL 383   Philosophy of Psychology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Students must have taken at least two philosophy
courses   
A philosophical analysis of theoretical positions in psychology. May
include issues regarding methodology, perception, learning theory,
rationality, emotions.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers regarding issues in the ﬁeld of psychology
PHIL 384   Topics in Philosophy & Science   (3 Credit Hours)   
Particular topics selected from philosophy and science. Typical topics
include the Scientiﬁc Revolution, positivism, space and time, relativity
theory, cosmology, evolution.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers regarding the selected topic
PHIL 385   Environmental Ethics   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will examine a number of controversial moral issues involving
our environment. Theoretical and applied topics may include animal
rights and species rights, nonwestern environmental perspectives,
ecofeminism, duties to future generations, overpopulation, pollution,
nuclear power, and environmental issues in policy making and business
ethics.
PHIL 386   Analytic Philosophy   (3 Credit Hours)   
A survey of 20th century British and American philosophy in the analytic
tradition, including philosophers such as Russell, Moore, Wittgenstein,
Carnap, Quine.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers regarding the analytic tradition in philosophy
PHIL 387   Philosophy of Mind   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Students must have taken at least two philosophy
courses   
This course is a critical study of issues such as the mind-body  problem,
personal identity, knowledge of other minds, consciousness, perception.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers regarding issues in the philosophy of mind

--- Page 177 ---
208  College of Arts and Sciences
PHIL 388   History of Ethics   (3 Credit Hours)   
An intensive study of the ethical theories of several major ﬁgures in the
history of western moral philosophy, including, for example, the systems
of Aristotle, Kant, and Mill.
Outcomes:
Students will develop a more advanced understanding of philosophical
problems and answers to questions in the ﬁeld of ethics by means of this
historical study
PHIL 389   Contemporary Issues   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Students must have taken at least two philosophy
courses   
Study of a selected topic in some area of contemporary philosophy.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers regarding the selected topic
PHIL 390   Independent Study for Majors   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Students must be a philosophy major with adequate
background   
In-depth independent research developed jointly by the student and a
faculty director. The topic should be one with which the student has some
familiarity so that the research can be an examination of it in-depth.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers regarding the selected topic
PHIL 391   Topics in Philosophy of Religion   (3 Credit Hours)   
PHIL 391 was re-numbered to PHIL 380.
Course equivalencies:  PHIL391/PHIL380   
PHIL 393   Philosophy & The Human Sciences   (0 Credit Hours)   
This seminar explores a selected theme in health care ethics. Extensive
use is made of visiting guest experts. Students should have completed
four courses in philosophy, including a course in health care ethics.
Outcomes:
Students will develop a more advanced philosophical understanding of
health care ethics, through direct student participation in an interactive
seminar environment
PHIL 395   Seminar in Ancient Philosophy   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will study selected issues from ancient philosophy. Course
intended for philosophy majors. Students should have completed ﬁve
philosophy courses, including PHIL 304.
Outcomes:
Students will develop a more advanced understanding of ancient
philosophy, through direct student participation in an interactive seminar
environment
PHIL 396   Seminar in Medieval Philosophy   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will study selected issues from ancient philosophy. Course
intended for philosophy majors. Students should have completed ﬁve
philosophy courses, including a course in medieval philosophy.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Medieval Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PHIL396/MSTU350   
Outcomes:
Students will develop a more advanced understanding of medieval
philosophy, through direct student participation in an interactive seminar
environmentPHIL 397   Capstone Seminar in Classical Modern Philosophy   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course will study selected issues from early modern philosophy.
Course intended for philosophy majors. Students should have completed
ﬁve philosophy courses, including PHIL 309.
Outcomes:
Students will develop a more advanced understanding of early modern
philosophy, through direct student participation in an interactive seminar
environment
PHIL 398   Capstone Seminar in Contemporary Philosophy   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Course intended for philosophy majors   
Students should have completed at least ﬁve philosophy courses. This
course will study selected issues in contemporary philosophy. Course
intended for philosophy majors. Students should have completed ﬁve
philosophy courses.
Outcomes:
Students will develop a more advanced understanding of contemporary
philosophy, through direct student participation in an interactive seminar
environment
PHIL 399   Capstone Seminar on a Topic in Philosophy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Course intended for philosophy majors   
Students should have completed at least ﬁve philosophy courses. This
course engages the student in an analysis and discussion of special
problems found in various areas of philosophy. Student should have
completed ﬁve philosophy courses.
Outcomes:
Students will develop a more advanced understanding of the
philosophical enterprise, through direct student participation in an
interactive seminar environment
Physics (PHYS)
PHYS 101   Liberal Arts Physics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 101 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
For non-science majors. Selected topics from classical and modern
physics emphasizing beauty, symmetry, and simplicity. Contemporary
issues of physics and society.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Scientiﬁc Knowledge   
Outcomes:
Understanding of interaction between theory and experiment, role of
physics in society, science vs. nonscience; solve problems using algebra,
geometry, vectors, and graphs; synthesize disparate physics topics
PHYS 102   Planetary and Stellar Astronomy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 101 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course covers the astronomy of the solar system and planetary
science as well as the astronomy of stars and galaxies. This includes
study of earth and comparative study of all the planets, as well as the
birth, evolution, and death of stars, the clustering of stars and galaxies,
the expanding universe and cosmology.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Scientiﬁc Knowledge   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the fundamental
knowledge and concepts in astronomy, the qualitative and quantitative
reasoning used, and how this science can be applied

--- Page 178 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 209
PHYS 106   Physics of Music   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 101 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
Language, structure, history and styles of music; motion, force, energy
and waves applied to production of sound; physical properties of
instruments and musical acoustics.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Scientiﬁc Knowledge   
Outcomes:
Knowledge of music fundamentals; understand how instruments
function; apply physics concepts and experimentation to analyze the
production of music and acoustics
PHYS 111   College Physics I Lec / Dis   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Math Placement Test or MATH 118   
Non-calculus introduction to vectors, kinematics, Newtonian mechanics
of translational, rotational, and oscillatory motion, energy and momentum
conservation, and thermodynamics.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Understanding of analytical description of motion and application of
conservation laws; develop scientiﬁc insight and proﬁciency in solving
representative problems
PHYS 111L   College Physics Laboratory I   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre- or co-requisites:  PHYS 111 or PHYS 121; Prerequisite: MATH 118 or
MDT   
Laboratories cover selected topics in introductory mechanics, including
freefall, uniform circular motion, work-energy, collisions, rotational
motion, and harmonic motion.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Experience and familiarity with basic measuring devices and simple
mechanics equipment; Understand measurement errors and their
propagation, plotting and interpretation of data, the connection between
theory and experiment for selected topics in elementary mechanics
PHYS 112   College Physics II Lec/Disc   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHYS 111 or equivalent   
PHYS 111 and 112 provide a non-calculus introduction to physics. Topics
include electricity and magnetism, sound, optics, and selected topics
from modern physics.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Course equivalencies:  PHYS112/PHYS112K/PHYS122   
Outcomes:
Understand and apply electromagnetism to 2- and 3-dimensional
problems in physical and biological sciences
PHYS 112L   College Physics Lab II   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  PHYS 112 or PHYS 122 (may also be taken as corequisite);
also prerequisite PHYS 111L; For ESBE, ESCE, and ESEE majors only:
Prerequisite or corequisite of PHYS 122   
Laboratories cover selected topics in electrical circuits and optics,
including DC circuits, resonance in AC circuits, ray optics, and prism and
grating spectrometers.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Understand the connection between theory and experiment for selected
topics in elementary electrical circuits and optics; Experience and
familiarity with DC power supplies, digital multi-meters, function
generators, oscilloscopes, mirrors, lenses, and spectrometers; Ability to
correlate simple electronic schematic diagrams with actual circuitsPHYS 121   College Physics I with Calculus Lecture/Discussion   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Co-requisites:  MATH 131 or MATH 161   
Calculus-based introduction to vectors, kinematics, Newtonian
mechanics of translational, rotational, and oscillatory motion, energy and
momentum conservation, and thermodynamics.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Understanding of analytical description of motion and application of
conservation laws; develop scientiﬁc insight and proﬁciency in solving
representative problems
PHYS 122   College Physics II with Calculus Lecture/Discussion   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHYS 121; Corequisite: MATH 132 or MATH 162   
Calculus-based introduction to electricity and magnetism, sound, optics,
and selected topics from modern physics.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Course equivalencies:  PHYS112/PHYS112K/PHYS122   
Outcomes:
Understand and apply electromagnetism to 2- and 3-dimensional
problems in physical and biological sciences
PHYS 125   General Physics I Lec/Dis   (4 Credit Hours)   
Co-requisites:  PHYS 125L and MATH 161   
This is a calculus-based introductory course that covers Mechanics and
Thermodynamics. It is designed for physics majors or minors and dual-
degree engineering students.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Understanding of vectors, forces, Newtonian mechanics related to
translational, rotational, and oscillatory motion; thermodynamics
PHYS 125L   General Physics Laboratory I   (1 Credit Hour)   
Co-requisites:  PHYS 125   
Laboratories cover selected topics in introductory mechanics, including
freefall, uniform circular motion, work-energy, collisions, rotational
motion, and harmonic motion. Includes a freshmen project.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Experience and familiarity with basic measuring devices and simple
mechanics equipment; Understand measurement errors and their
propagation, plotting and interpretation of data, the connection between
theory and experiment for selected topics in elementary mechanics
PHYS 126   General Physics II Lec/Dis   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHYS 125; Corequisites: PHYS 126F , PHYS 126L &
MATH 162; Department Consent Required   
A continuation of PHYS 125, covering Electricity and magnetism, sound,
optics.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Understanding of electrostatics, magnetostatics, time varying currents,
resistive, capacitative and inductive elements, electromagnetic and
sound waves, geometrical and wave optics, introductory special relativity

--- Page 179 ---
210  College of Arts and Sciences
PHYS 126F   Freshman Projects   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  PHYS 111 or 121 (C- or better); Enrollment restricted to
PHYS, BPHY, TPAM, and PCSC majors Outcomes: Students should gain a
deeper understanding of the material covered in introductory physics and
learn about research methods employed by physicists   
Under the guidance of a faculty member, students perform research on
a physics-related topic through a semester-long project. The project
involves development of a proposal, building of experimental apparatus,
data collection/analysis, and theoretical calculations.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
PHYS 126L   General Physics Laboratory II   (1 Credit Hour)   
Co-requisites:  PHYS 126   
Laboratories cover selected topics in electrical circuits and optics,
including DC circuits, resonance in AC circuits, ray optics, and prism and
grating spectrometers. Includes a freshmen project.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Experience and familiarity with DC power supplies, digital multimeters,
function generators, oscilloscopes, mirrors, lenses, and spectrometers;
Ability to correlate simple electronic schematic diagrams with actual
circuits; Understand the connection between theory and experiment for
selected topics in elementary electrical circuits and optics
PHYS 130   Introduction to Computational Physics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHYS 121 (C- or better); Corequisite: PHYS 122   
This is an introductory computational physics course. The course will
cover basic computational skills using Python and common scientiﬁc
Python packages. We will solve a set of programming exercises that
enhances both the understanding of introductory physics (Newton's laws,
work, energy, momentum) and physics problem solving skills.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to write a Python program to perform numerical
calculations in physics and gain computational skills that would be
utilized in upper division physics coursework and research
PHYS 235   Modern Physics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHYS 122 (C- or better); Corequisites: PHYS 235L and
MATH 263; Enrollment is restricted to PHYS, BPHY, TPAM and PCSC
majors and PHYS minors   
This course covers the Special Theory of Relativity and Introductory
Quantum Mechanics.
Outcomes:
Understand the relative nature of space and time; the duality of waves
and particles; the microscopic structure of matter and its macroscopic
consequences
PHYS 235L   Modern Physics Laboratory   (1 Credit Hour)   
Co-requisites:  PHYS 235   
Modern physics experiments including electromagnetic waves
(microwaves), interferometry, spectroscopy, electron and quantum
physics, and solid-state physics.
Outcomes:
Students will gain hands on experience and familiarity with experiments
from early modern physics, the ability to use spreadsheets and symbolic
algebraic software for problem solving and data interpretation, and
experience documenting and reporting results including historical
background searchesPHYS 266   Digital Electronics Lab   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHYS 126 and MATH 162   
Combinatorial and sequential logic devices, oscillators and timers,
microprocessor components, CPU operation, computer architecture and
digital/analog conversion.
Course equivalencies:  X-PHYS266/COMP266   
Outcomes:
Students will gain a working knowledge of digital electronics design
and its application to computers, an understanding of CPU design and
operation and the ability to document and report experimental results
PHYS 301   Mathematical Methods in Physics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHYS 235; Corequisite: MATH 264   
Lecture and computer laboratory; Mathematical and computer methods
in physics and engineering; Topics include vector calculus, functions
of a complex variable, phasors, Fourier analysis, linear transformations,
matrices, ﬁrst and second order differential equations, special functions,
numerical and symbolic computer applications.
Course equivalencies:  X-PHYS301/PHYS271/MATH355   
PHYS 303   Electronics I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHYS 122 (C- or better); Corequisite: PHYS 303L;
Enrollment restricted to PHYS, BPHY, TPAM, PCSC majors and PHYS
minors   
Study of analog electronics, including direct and alternating circuit
analysis, resonant circuits, diodes, transistors, ampliﬁers, operational
ampliﬁers, noise, feedback and oscillators.
Outcomes:
Students will understand and manipulate equations and concepts, and
gain experience with electronics equipment, plotting and interpretation
of data, synthesizing and writing laboratory results, and the formal verbal
presentation of results
PHYS 303L   Electronics Laboratory   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  PHYS 122 (C- or better); Corequisite: PHYS 303; Enrollment
restricted to PHYS, BPHY, TPAM, PCSC majors and PHYS minors   
Students will learn to use various electronic components, instruments,
techniques, and applications. This course is the lab component for
PHYS 303.
Outcomes:
Students should get a deeper understanding of the material covered in
PHYS 303 (Analog and digital electronics) by experimentally verifying
many of the concepts covered in that course; Students will also learn to
recognize various components and develop conﬁdence in using them
PHYS 310   Optics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHYS 235 (C- or better); Corequisite: PHYS 310L;
Enrollment restricted to PHYS, BPHY, TPAM, PCSC majors and PHYS
minors   
The course covers electromagnetic nature of light, geometrical optics,
polarization, Fresnel relations, interference, Fraunhofer and Fresnel
diffraction, Fourier optics, lasers, and holography.
Outcomes:
Students will gain knowledge of the principles of classical and modern
optics, the role of optics in the development of quantum mechanics and
its applications to modern technology

--- Page 180 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 211
PHYS 310L   Optics Lab   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  PHYS 235 (C- or better); Corequisite: PHYS 310; Enrollment
restricted to PHYS, BPHY, TPAM, PCSC majors and PHYS minors   
Students will learn to use various optical components, instruments,
techniques, and applications. This course is the lab component to
PHYS 310.
Outcomes:
Students should get a deeper understanding of the material covered in
PHYS 310 (Geometrical and wave optics) by experimentally verifying
many of the concepts covered in that course; Students will also learn to
recognize various components and develop conﬁdence in using them
PHYS 314   Theoretical Mechanics I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHYS 122 (C- or better); Corequisites: MATH 264 and
PHYS 301 Outcomes: Students will gain understanding of analytical
and numerical methods of mechanics, understanding of principles
in dynamics, and experience in applying formalisms of Lagrange and
Hamilton to mechanics in preparation for other areas of physics and
engineering   
Newtonian particle dynamics, conservation theorems, oscillations,
gravitation, generalized coordinates, Lagrange and Hamilton formalisms.
PHYS 315   Theoretical Mechanics II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHYS 314   
This course is a continuation of PHYS 314 and covers dynamics of
system of particles, moving coordinates, rigid body dynamics, systems of
oscillators, motion in a central force ﬁeld, relativity.
Outcomes:
Students will gain understanding of analytical and numerical methods of
mechanics, and of the laws of dynamics and their applications
PHYS 328   Thermal Physical & Statistical Mechanics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHYS 235 and PHYS 301   
This course examines the fundamental concepts of temperature, entropy,
and thermodynamic equilibrium, the ﬁrst and second law, engines, the
third law, and Boltzmann, Fermi-Dirac, and Bose-Einstein statistics.
Outcomes:
Students will learn to compare thermodynamical versus statistical
characterizations of macroscopic systems with applications ranging
from analyzing Fermi gases and black body radiation to information
theory
PHYS 338   Advanced Physics Laboratory   (2 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHYS 301 and PHYS 314; Restricted to PHYS, TPAM, PCSC,
and BPHY majors   
Lab course with advanced experiments in mechanics, biophysics,
electromagnetism, quantum mechanics, solid state, and particle physics.
Students will receive training in data analysis methods, data acquisition
systems, signal processing, and 3D fabrication. Students will work in
teams on a ﬁnal independent project.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of experiment design, data analysis,
and error estimation in the context of investigating physical principles
and using different instrumentation
PHYS 351   Electricity and Magnetism I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHYS 235, 301 & MATH 264   
Electrostatics and magnetostatics in a vacuum as well as in linear media,
and an introduction to electrodynamics.
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of mathematical methods of
electrodynamics, of static electricity and magnetism including Coulomb's,
Gauss', Ampere's, and Faraday's laws and their applications, and of
solutions of Laplace's and Maxwell's equationsPHYS 352   Electricity and Magnetism II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHYS 351   
Introduction to electrodynamics and the special theory of relativity.
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of electromagnetic ﬁeld energy
and momentum, Maxwell's equations and their applications including
electromagnetic radiation and emission, involving retarded potentials and
Lorentz covariance
PHYS 361   Quantum Mechanics I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHYS 235 & PHYS 301   
Non-relativistic quantum mechanics.
Outcomes:
Students will understand and use separation of variables, ﬁnite
polynomials, and matrix algebra to solve the Schroedinger equation,
explain microscopic structure of matter, and describe philosophical
interpretations of quantum mechanics
PHYS 371   Biophysics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  For Biology and Molecular Biology majors: BIOL 251,
(PHYS 112 or 122), and (MATH 132 or 162); For all other majors:
PHYS 235 and BIOL 101   
An upper-level course in biological physics focused on a quantitative
description of the physical processes driving molecular and cellular
processes with an emphasis on experiment design and analysis.
Outcomes:
Students will understand how to apply physical principles and
probabilistic analysis toward the study of biological phenomena at
molecular and cellular levels
PHYS 380   Special Topics in Physics   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Instructor's permission   
This variable (1-3) credit enrichment course introduces students to a
topic not generally covered in other courses. This course can be repeated.
Outcomes:
Students will understand the material of the course and develop an ability
to apply the knowledge gained to other contexts
PHYS 381   Special Topics in Physics   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Instructor's permission   
This variable (1-3) credit enrichment course introduces students to a
topic not generally covered in other courses. This course can be repeated.
Outcomes:
Students understand the material of the course and develop an ability to
apply the knowledge gained to other contexts
PHYS 391   Research   (1-12 Credit Hours)   
Research in physics or an associated ﬁeld. This is a variable credit course
and can be repeated.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  PHYS391 / PHYS385 / PHYS386   
Outcomes:
Under the guidance of a faculty member, students study and understand
research methods employed by physicists and gain a deeper
understanding of a particular area of physics

--- Page 181 ---
212  College of Arts and Sciences
PHYS 394   Argonne Lab Research   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Chairperson's permission and acceptance by appropriate
program   
Study and research at the Argonne National Laboratory. Only those
students who are accepted into the Argonne National Laboratory's
student program (or similar programs elsewhere) are eligible. No tuition is
charged.
Outcomes:
Students will work with a research group at Argonne or other laboratory
to understand research methods employed by physicists and get a
deeper understanding of a particular area of physics
PHYS 395   Argonne Lab Research   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Chairperson's permission and acceptance by appropriate
program   
Study and research at the Argonne National Laboratory. Only those
students who are accepted into the Argonne National Laboratory's
student program (or similar programs elsewhere) are eligible. No tuition is
charged.
Outcomes:
Students will work with a research group at Argonne or other laboratory
to understand research methods employed by physicists and get a
deeper understanding of a particular area of physics
Polish (POLS)
POLS 101   Polish I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on introducing the student to the basics of Polish,
through conversation, pronunciation and grammar. Primary emphasis is
on enabling the student to speak and understand basic Polish.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Polish Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to use correctly and understand the basic
grammatical forms of the verbs, nouns and adjectives of Polish as an
inflected language; They will be appropriately prepared to complete the
full view of Polish structures in Polish
POLS 102   Polish II   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on introducing the student to the basics of Polish,
through conversation, pronunciation and grammar. Primary emphasis is
on enabling the student to speak and understand basic Polish.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Polish Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to use correctly and understand the basic
grammatical forms of the verbs, nouns and adjectives of Polish as an
inflected language; They will be appropriately prepared to complete the
full view of Polish structures in Polish
POLS 103   Polish III   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  POLS 102   
This course is designed to further develop and improve student's ability
to speak and read Polish, by introducing advanced grammar, vocabulary,
idioms, phraseology and syntax structures.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Polish Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to use correctly and understand various
grammatical forms of verbs, nouns, adjectives, adverbs and numbers;
They will be appropriately prepared to use Polish grammatical and
stylistic structures required in POLS 104POLS 104   Polish IV   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  POLS 103   
This course focuses on improving the student's ability to communicate in
Polish both oral and written. Primary emphasis is on speaking and basic
writing in Polish using proper grammatical and stylistic structures.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Polish Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to express themselves in spoken and written Polish
with the level of fluency appropriate for POLS 250
POLS 201   Polish Medical Terminology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  POLS 104 or equivalent   
This course is designed to prepare students for medical and healthcare
related professions, future physicians and nurses, healthcare
administrators and health insurance specialists. We will study Polish
vocabulary for anatomy and physiology, and introduced Polish terms
for medical procedures and tests. We will use phraseology common for
taking medical history. Students will practice using medical terminology
in patient interviews, reading articles from healthcare publications as well
as understanding and formulating medical instructions. In this course we
will also talk about cultural issues in practicing medicine, including the
cultural differences between Polish and American approach. There will be
strong emphasis on speaking, listening, and reading Polish.
Outcomes:
Students will expand their Polish vocabulary, including body parts and
functions, diseases and their manifestations; They will practice taking
a medical history in dialogues between medical professionals and their
clients as well as use medical names and description
POLS 202   Polish for Healthcare   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  POLS 104 or equivalent   
This course is designed to prepare students for medical professions,
future physicians, dentists, and nurses. We will practice vocabulary for
anatomy and physiology, Polish terms for medical procedure and test as
well as phraseology used in every day in doctor-patient communication.
This course will cover medical specializations such as: pediatrician,
nutritionist, internist, immunologist, neurologist, psychiatrist and
surgeon. We will also talk about cultural issues in practicing medicine.
There will be strong emphasis on speaking, listening, and reading Polish
and using more advanced aspects of Polish grammar.
Outcomes:
Students will learn medical vocabulary, including body parts and organs,
physiology and functions of various systems; They will practice taking
medical history in dialogues between medical professionals and their
patients, and they will write descriptions of medical conditions
POLS 250   Composition & Conversation I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  POLS 104   
This course focuses on improving and further developing student's ability
to converse and write in literary Polish language. Primary emphasis is
on proper grammatical and stylistic expression in Polish with extended
vocabulary and phraseology.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Polish Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to express themselves in spoken and written Polish
by making oral presentations and writing short compositions; They will be
appropriately prepared for POLS 251

--- Page 182 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 213
POLS 251   Composition & Conversation II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  POLS 250   
This course focuses on enhancing and polishing student's ability to
converse and write in contemporary Polish language. Primary emphasis
is on standard, literary Polish with its grammatical, orthographical and
stylistic level expected of an educated Polish speaker.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Polish Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to speak fluently, make oral presentations and write
essays in standard literary Polish language with fluency of an educated
Polish speaker
POLS 270   Contemporary Polish Culture in the Original Language   (3
Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  POLS 104 or equivalent   
We will discuss the key elements of Polish culture as it is evolving in the
fast changing social, technological, and economic circumstances after
the political transformation of Central Europe. Students will explore the
cultural traditions and values of the pre-WWII generation and the Soviet
era generation, which led many to emigrate from Poland.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Polish Studies   
Polish Studies (POST)
POST 199   Topics in Polish Studies: Introductory   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
Introduction to a speciﬁc theme in Polish Studies, e.g. Polish immigration,
emergent Poland after World War II, etc.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Polish Studies   
Outcomes:
To gain a basic knowledge of Poland through its art, history, politics,
religion, philosophy, or cinema
POST 299   Topics in Polish Studies: Intermediate Topics   (1-6 Credit
Hours)   
Exploration of important themes in Polish Studies, such as Polish
immigration, emergent Poland after World War II, etc.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Polish Studies   
Outcomes:
To enhance knowledge of Polish Studies through different disciplines: art,
history, politics, religion, philosophy, or cinema
POST 395   Polish Studies Capstone   (3 Credit Hours)   
Capstone course to the POST Minor program. This is a tutorial course
with a service learning component that serves an integrative purpose.
In the tutorial students will focus on a speciﬁc issue or theme  in POST .
The syllabus will reflect the research interests of the faculty member who
administers the course.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Polish Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to integrate their coursework in the POST minor with
their major concentration
POST 399   Topics in Polish Studies: Advanced   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
Intensive study of a speciﬁc theme or themes in the broad ﬁeld of Polish
Studies: language, art, literature & ﬁlm, politics, music, and history.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Polish Studies   
Outcomes:
To provide an in-depth knowledge of Polish StudiesPolitical Science (PLSC)
PLSC 100   Political Theory   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHIL 130 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
An introduction to political theory, covering the principal ideas,
controversies and institutions of political society.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Philosophical Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  ACPOL 200 / PLSC 100   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of major
approaches to the normative study of politics; to identify the
assumptions underlying philosophical arguments; and to critically assess
different theories of political justice
PLSC 101   American Politics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100, PLSC 102, PSYC 100, SOCL 101, WSGS 101, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
American national government and politics, including institutions, group
and electoral processes, and public policy.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  ACPOL 101 / PLSC 101   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the American
political system, the patterns of political participation and behavior of
diverse individuals and groups in American society, and evaluate the roles
and processes of U.S. political institutions
PLSC 102   International Relations in an Age of Globalization   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Competing perspectives on international politics and global issues
such as North-South relations, human rights, war and peace, population
growth, and environmentalism.
Knowledge Area:  Foundational Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Global
Studies, Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies   
Course equivalencies:  PLSC/PAX/ACPOL102/AFR110/INTS2   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the main
approaches to the study of international politics and to analyze and
assess such major substantive issues as interstate war, terrorism, arms
control, international political economy and sustainable development
PLSC 103   Comparative Politics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100, PLSC 102, PSYC 100, SOCL 101, WSGS 101, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
A cross-national comparison of political institutions and political
behavior.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will learn why political systems differ and how different political
systems function and change
PLSC 123   Speak Up Democracy   (0-3 Credit Hours)   
"Speak Up Democracy" is a course on perennial questions about the
workings of democracies. Participating students will investigate the
connection between speech and political power, ruminating on whose
voices are heard (and silenced) in a democracy. This summer program is
animated by a central question: how should we speak to one another in a
democracy? The course is open to high school students participating in
the summer program.

--- Page 183 ---
214  College of Arts and Sciences
PLSC 195   Law and Civil Rights   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course focuses on the political processes surrounding laws and civil
rights.
PLSC 202   Mock Trial   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students will study the trial as a process for ﬁnding truth and
administering justice by learning the dynamics of the trial, by developing
trial strategy, by learning how to conduct and respond to direct and cross
examination and by delivering effective opening and closing arguments.
Mock trial is an engaged learning course. Prior Permission is required.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Mock trials are an activity that promotes critical thinking and reasoning;
They call upon students to employ their problem-solving and public-
speaking skills, and students gain knowledge of legal practices and
procedures
PLSC 203   Moot Court   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students will study the appeal as a process for ﬁnding truth and
administering justice by learning the dynamics of appellate advocacy,
by developing oral argument strategies, by learning how to respond to
questions posed by judges in competition, and by delivering effective
summations and rebuttal arguments. Moot court is an engaged learning
course.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Moot court competitions are an activity that promotes critical thinking
and reasoning; They will enhance their ability-to-think- on-their-feet skills,
their legal research skills, and their public-speaking skills; Students gain
knowledge of legal argumentation and constitutional law
PLSC 204   Conflict Management   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course considers a variety of different approaches to international
conflict management: direct bargaining, mediation, military intervention,
economic sanctions, arbitration, adjudication, and peacekeeping. In
addition to learning about the differences among these various conflict
resolution techniques.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Outcomes:
This course will treat state conflict as a natural phenomenon that must
be understood before it can be mitigated; Doing so requires scientiﬁc
investigation
PLSC 208   Representation in the United States   (3 Credit Hours)   
Considers what "political representation" means and how scholars study
how well representation works in the contemporary United States.
Outcomes:
Understanding of concept of political representation and tools scholars
use to study representation
PLSC 213   International Human Rights   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the theoretical foundations of such international
human rights as well as their practical implications. It discusses the
roles of states, intergovernmental organizations, and nongovernmental
organizations in shaping human rights norms and practices. They will
also understand practical causes and consequences of human rights
policies.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to identify assumptions of arguments and critically
assess different theories of international human rightsPLSC 215   Politics of Marginalized Groups   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the role that race, ethnicity, and marginalized
status plays in American politics and public policy. It will provide a
general overview of several groups, including Blacks, Latinxs, Asian and
Muslim Americans, Women, LGBTQ, immigrants and refugees, indigenous
peoples and other groups.
Outcomes:
Students will acquire an understanding of the historical exclusion of
various groups from the political system and the resulting political
participation and behavior patterns of minoritized groups in American
society
PLSC 216   Political Numbers   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will train participants to be critical consumers of political
arguments that cite quantitative evidence. The course will take a hands-
on approach where students learn how to conduct, interpret, and critique
quantitative analysis using common statistical software packages.
Knowledge Area:  Quantitative Knowledge   
Outcomes:
Students will learn to critically engage with the numbers-based claims
they encounter in the political arena and beyond; They will also learn how
to conduct and present quantitative analysis
PLSC 218   African-American Politics   (3 Credit Hours)   
The political goals, behavior, voting patterns, group structures, values, and
attitudes of various segments of the African-American population, and
how these affect the political system.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Human
Services, Race and Ethnicity   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC218/BWS 218   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the patterns of
political participation and behavior of African-American individuals and
groups in American society
PLSC 232   Politics of the United Kingdom   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course offers an introduction to politics in the United Kingdom
(ofﬁcially known as the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, and unofﬁcially referred to as Britain).
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the st ructure
and operation of the United Kingdom's domestic political system, as well
as its relations with the rest of the world, especially the European Union
PLSC 236   Political Communication   (3 Credit Hours)   
The purpose of this course is to explore and examine how elected
ofﬁcials and institutions communicate to the public - and the role
journalists and PR professionals play in the process--through readings,
seminar, and practicum. The class will challenge students to grapple
with questions like - What is the meaning of the "truth" in today's media
environment?
Outcomes:
Students will understand how and why journalists cover what they cover,
and the roles PR professionals/spin doctors attempt to shape the media
narrative

--- Page 184 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 215
PLSC 238   Political Advocacy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Policy-making and implementation in the United States is a complicated
process. In any given year laws are passed by elected ofﬁcials, decisions
that guide our implementation of the law are made by government
agencies, and rulings handed down by the courts shape our interpretation
of those laws.
Outcomes:
Students will understand their place in the policy-making ecosystem, and
the efﬁcacy of those efforts
PLSC 251   Women in American Politics   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on Women and Politics in the United States. It looks
at women's movements both historical and current, how women and men
in the United States act differently in politics in terms of voting behavior,
as political candidates, and as elected leaders. Students will gain a better
understanding of the U.S. political system and how and when wom en are
treated equally and unequally when compared with men.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
PLSC 252   Capitalism and Its Discontents   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course analyzes the intersection of capitalist economics and politics
from a critical perspective. Capitalism and Marxism will be reviewed,
followed by a critical examination of how capitalism has played out in
economic/political practice in the world today. Includes discussions of
many economic topics recently in the news, and the potential for change
in a variety of directions. Students will learn to critically analyze the
ways in which modern economics leads to less than optimal solutions,
including economic inequality. They will also learn to identify other
options that may lead to greater equality and economic success.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
PLSC 300   Contemporary Political Issues   (3 Credit Hours)   
Variable titles. Investigation of selected topics or methods in politics.
This course may apply to any of the four areas of the department, and
may be repeated depending on subject matter.
Outcomes:
Students will gain an in-depth knowledge of a unique topic in
contemporary politics
PLSC 300A   Contemporary Political Issues: American Politics   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Investigation of selected topics or methods in American Politics. This
course may be repeated depending on subject matter.
PLSC 300B   Contemporary Political Issues: Political Theory   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Investigation of selected topics or methods in Political Theory. This
course may be repeated depending on subject matter.
PLSC 300C   Contemporary Political Issues: Comparative Politics   (3
Credit Hours)   
Investigation of selected topics or methods in Comparative Politics. This
course may be repeated depending on subject matter.
PLSC 300D   Contemporary Political issues in International Relations   (3
Credit Hours)   
Investigation of selected topics or methods in International Relations.
This course may be repeated depending on subject matter.PLSC 301   Political Justice   (3 Credit Hours)   
A study of alternative conceptions of political justice and the attempts to
institutionalize them in various political systems.
Outcomes:
Students will be required to demonstrate a mastery of competing theories
about how various goods should be distributed fairly, and apply the just-
war doctrine to various real-world cases; This course will help students
to analyze and appraise social practices and policies that claim to be
consistent with principles of justice
PLSC 302   American Political Thought   (3 Credit Hours)   
Major political themes from the founding era to the present.
Outcomes:
Students will learn to interpret and evaluate the assumptions and
principles guiding the writings of major American political theorists, and
to reflect on their signiﬁcance in the evolution of American politics and
society
PLSC 303   Conservatism   (3 Credit Hours)   
A survey of modern conservative thought. Attention will be devoted to the
theoretical and political cleavages within the Right.
Outcomes:
Students will learn to interpret and evaluate the assumptions and
principles guiding the writings of influential conservative political
theorists and their critics, and to reflect on the signiﬁcance of
conservative political theory in promoting a more just society
PLSC 304   Ancient Political Thought   (3 Credit Hours)   
(CLST 305) A study of major political theorists from Plato to the fall of the
Roman republic.
Outcomes:
Students will learn to interpret and evaluate the assumptions and
principles guiding the writings of major Ancient Greek and early Roman
political theorists
PLSC 306   Modern Political Thought   (3 Credit Hours)   
A study of major political theorists from Machiavelli to the French
Revolution.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will learn to interpret and evaluate the assumptions and
principles guiding the writings of the major political theorist s from
Machiavelli to Rousseau
PLSC 307   Democratic Theory   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines normative arguments for and against popular rule.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to explain and assess critically arguments for and
against democratic government
PLSC 308   Contemporary Political Thought   (3 Credit Hours)   
A study of major political theorists from the nineteenth century to the
present.
Interdisciplinary Option:  German Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will learn to interpret and evaluate the assumptions and guiding
principles of the writings of major political theorists from the nineteenth
century to the present

--- Page 185 ---
216  College of Arts and Sciences
PLSC 309   Socialism   (3 Credit Hours)   
A survey of Marxist and post-Marxist socialist thought.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Polish Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will learn to interpret and evaluate the assumptions and
principles guiding the writings of major socialist political theorists and
their critics, and to reflect on the signiﬁcance of socialist political theory
in promoting a more just society
PLSC 310B   Catholic Political Thought   (3 Credit Hours)   
A survey of classic and contemporary political thinkers in the Roman
Catholic tradition. The problems examined include religious pluralism,
moral decay, natural law, distributive justice, political obligation, war, and
peace.
PLSC 311   Social Science Research Practicum: Cook County Community
Survey   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PLSC 216 or equivalent   
Familiarity with R, Stata, SAS, or SPSS necessary. Students will analyze
this year's iteration of the annual Cook County Community Survey. They
will draw on the data to prepare written, public-facing reports, public
presentations, and scholarly research.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  PLSC 311/SOCL 311   
Outcomes:
Describe the strengths and limitations of modern polling techniques; Use
statistical software to analyze survey data; Communicate ﬁndings from
surveys to a broad audience orally and in written form
PLSC 312   Feminist Theory   (3 Credit Hours)   
(WOST 318) A survey of classical and contemporary feminist political
theory.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC312/WOST318/WSGS318   
Outcomes:
Students will learn to interpret and evaluate the assumptions and
principles guiding the writings of influential feminist political theorists
and their critics, and to reflect on the signiﬁcance of feminist political
theory in promoting a more just society
PLSC 313   Resistance and Obligation   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines normative arguments about the source of political
obligation and the right to resist government through various means, both
violent and nonviolent.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to explain and assess critically various arguments
about the duty to obey and the right to disobey government
PLSC 314   Liberalism   (3 Credit Hours)   
A survey of classical and contemporary political theorists in the liberal
tradition.
Outcomes:
Students will learn to interpret and evaluate the assumptions and
principles guiding the writings of major liberal political theorists and
their critics, and to reflect on the signiﬁcance of liberal political theory in
promoting a more just societyPLSC 316   Politics of Genocide   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course analyzes the politics surrounding genocide, war crimes and
crimes against humanity in contemporary times. The primary focus
is on occurrences since the end of the Cold War, including the former
Yugoslavia, Rwanda, Sudan and the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Global
Studies, Race and Ethnicity   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of genocide
and other massive human rights violations, along with the role of the
international community in preventing future atrocities
PLSC 317   Politics of International Health   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course discusses political issues in the ﬁeld of international health,
including comparing health care systems in the industrialized world,
and treatment of diseases in the developing world, particularly Africa
(HIV/AIDs, TB, Malaria, etc). Students will be able to demonstrate an
understanding of international health and comparative health systems.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Global
Studies   
PLSC 318   Politics & the Economy   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines how and why the U.S. government influences
the economy. The government is the single most important actor in
the economy, both as a consumer and as an entity seeking to manage
important aspects of the economy.
Outcomes:
At the end of the course, students should be able to demonstrate
knowledge about the key public and private institutions involved in
economic policy and politics; Provide explanations of the development
of both historical and contemporary economic policies; Explain the
underlying bases of contemporary economic issues and competing
views on appropriate policy actions to address them; Be able to access
available public sources to conduct research on economic problems and
policies
PLSC 319   Women, Law & Public Policy   (3 Credit Hours)   
The legal arrangements and public policies that structure the
relationships of women and men in American society.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services, Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC319/WOST319/WSGS319   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze and appraise the impact of judicial
decisions and public policies on women in the United States
PLSC 320   Constitutional Law-Due Process   (3 Credit Hours)   
The Supreme Court's role in deﬁning substantive and procedural due
process issues such as criminal procedure, individual autonomy, and
economic regulation.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Sociolegal Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the meaning
and application of due process in American law and its impact in
safeguarding individual freedoms and civil rights
PLSC 321   Constitutional Law-Powers of Government   (3 Credit Hours)   
The Supreme Court's role in allocating power among the three
branches of the national government and between the state and federal
governments.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Sociolegal Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of altern ative
judicial approaches to the separation of governmental powers

--- Page 186 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 217
PLSC 322   Constitutional Law-Rights and Liberties   (3 Credit Hours)   
The Supreme Court's role in deﬁning constitutional guarantees of equal
protection and individual freedom.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Sociolegal Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the meaning,
protection and boundaries of civil rights and individual liberties in
American law
PLSC 323   Children, Law & Public Policy   (3 Credit Hours)   
The constitutional rights of children in the home, the classroom, and
the courtroom, and such policy areas as public welfare assistance, child
abuse and neglect, and child support enforcement.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze and assess the impact of judicial
decisions and public policies on children and families in the United States
PLSC 324   Civil-Military Relations   (3 Credit Hours)   
An exploration of the nature of military professionalism and the
relationship between the military and the civil society whose task it is to
defend.
Outcomes:
Students will understand the role of the military in a free society, and
the complex interactions between democratic norms and military
organization
PLSC 325   American Foreign Policy   (3 Credit Hours)   
(INTS 375) Origins and development of American foreign policies; the
method of their formulation and conduct.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC325/INTS375   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the
formulation, adoption and implementation of American foreign policy and
its impact on domestic and international affairs
PLSC 326   American National Security   (3 Credit Hours)   
American national security policy, including the role of major political
actors, the defense budgetary process, and the capability and
effectiveness of the military.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC326/PAX 327   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze and assess the formation, adoption and
implementation of national security policies in the United States and their
impact on domestic and international affairs
PLSC 327   Political Psychology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Political attitudes from a social psychological perspective with emphasis
on cognitive development models.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand the psychological sources of political
decision making
PLSC 328   Political Behavior   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course covers a range of topics pertaining to political behavior in
the United States. Topics will include research on the factors that shape
public attitudes about political matters, and work that examines who
participates in politics and why.PLSC 329   Interest Group Politics   (3 Credit Hours)   
A study of the role of interest groups in American politics and policy.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze and assess the patterns of political
participation and behavior of diverse interest groups and their impact on
the American political system
PLSC 330   Global Justice   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores debates about global justice such as immigration,
climate change, free trade, and humanitarian interventions. Rooted
in political theory, the course also includes readings from sociology,
philosophy, and economics.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Peace Studies, Global Studies,
Peace Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC330/PAX 330   
Outcomes:
Students will learn to critically assess different theories of political
justice and learn how to evaluate the moral and political justiﬁcations of
international practices and policies
PLSC 331   Islamic Political Thought   (3 Credit Hours)   
An introduction to Islamic political thought, covering main ideas,
questions, debates of the Islamic religio-political society, from the Qur'an
to the present. Among the authors studied include al-Farabi, al-Mawardi,
Ibn Khaldun, Islamic feminists, Islamic modernists, and Islamists.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Islamic World Studies, Global
Studies, Islamic World Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to identify assumptions of arguments, critically
assess different theories, and, having been familiarized with the inherent
entanglement of religion and politics, will be able to identify what is
speciﬁc to Islamic governance and what may be universalized
PLSC 332   Politics of American Bureaucracies   (3 Credit Hours)   
The political and social aspects of American bureaucracies at the local,
state and national levels with emphasis on the roles of administrators
and administrative institutions in the political system and policy process.
Outcomes:
Students will be able understand the role of the federal bureaucracy in
the formulation, adoption and implementation of public policies, and their
impact on the everyday lives of citizens
PLSC 333   Crossing Borders: The Politics of Immigration   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course explores immigration policies and practices around
the world. The primary goal is to gain a better understanding of the
choices both countries and would-be immigrants face, as well as the
consequences of the laws and policies enacted to regulate the movement
of people across borders.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Human Services, Global Studies,
Human Services   
Outcomes:
Understand the range of motivations that cause people to migrate,
the laws and policies to regulate this movement, the consequences of
migration, and contribute to societal debates about migration
PLSC 334   Urban Policies and Problems   (3 Credit Hours)   
An analysis of selected problems confronting governments in urban
America as well as the range of public policies that address urban
problems. (May be repeated with different issues.)
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services, Race and Ethnicity, Urban
Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will obtain in-depth knowledge of a unique topic in th e area of
urban policy-making

--- Page 187 ---
218  College of Arts and Sciences
PLSC 335   Urban Semester Seminar   (3 Credit Hours)   
See course description for SOCL 335.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Urban Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  X-SOCL335/PLSC335   
Outcomes:
See outcome for SOCL 335
PLSC 336   Politics in Contemporary China   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course primarily focuses on domestic politics in post-1978 China.
It introduces and examines China's key political institutions and players,
various forms of political participation by political elites and ordinary
citizens, and issues on governance and political reforms.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global & International Studies,
Global Studies, Peace Studies, Asian Studies, Global & International
Studies, Global Studies, Peace Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-COMM304/PLSC/PAX336/INTS310   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to make informed use of China as a case in more
general arguments and have a solid footing from which to pursue more
in-depth study of particular topics in China
PLSC 337   Terrorism   (3 Credit Hours)   
An analysis of different types of terrorist insurgencies across the globe
and of the efforts by governments to combat terrorism
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC337/INTS337/CJC337   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to explain what motives the turn to terror as a
method of struggle and to assess the morality and effectiveness of the
counterterrorism tactics adopted by various governments
PLSC 339   Political Ideologies   (3 Credit Hours)   
(INTS 369) A comparative analysis of important modern political
ideologies and the functions they serve in the political system.
Attention will be devoted to the ideologies of non-Western regimes and
movements.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC339/INTS339   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze and assess the role and impact of
political ideologies in the foundation, development, and justiﬁcation of
various political regimes
PLSC 340   International Relations of Africa   (3 Credit Hours)   
(BWS 340) (INTS 340) An introduction to the international relations of the
countries that comprise the African continent. The primary focus is the
evolution of African international relations during the post-colonial period
(c. 1960-present).
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Global
Studies, Islamic World Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC340/BWS 340/INTS340   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the na ture
and evolution of African international relations with the major northern
industrialized democracies and various regions of the developing worldPLSC 342   African Politics   (3 Credit Hours)   
(BWS 342) (INTS 342) Forces shaping political societies south of the
Sahara: the heritage of colonialism, the sociology of modernization, race
related stresses, economic factors, and political movements.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Global
Studies, Islamic World Studies   
Course equivalencies:  PLSC342/BWS 342/INTS342/IWS342   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the
formation and structure of African political systems, the patterns of
political participation and behavior of diverse individuals, groups, and
governments in African societies, and evaluate the roles and processes of
African political institutions
PLSC 343   Latin American Politics   (3 Credit Hours)   
(INTS 343) (LASP 343) Historical, cultural, economic and political forces
in the governments of Latin America and the Caribbean.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Latin American Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC343/INTS343/LASP343   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the formation
and structure of Latin American and Caribbean political systems, the
patterns of political participation and behavior of diverse individuals,
groups, and governments in Latin American and Caribbean societies,
and evaluate the roles and processes of Latin American and Caribbean
political institutions
PLSC 344   Contemporary Issues in Latin America   (3 Credit Hours)   
(INTS 344) (LASP 344) A study of political forces and processes relating
to population movement, land use, and urbanization in Latin America and
the Caribbean.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Latin American Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC344/INTS344/LASP344   
Outcomes:
Students will obtain in-depth knowledge of a unique topic in Latin
American and Caribbean politics
PLSC 345   South & Southeast Asian Politics   (3 Credit Hours)   
(ASIA 343) (INTS 345) Political forces and developments of the Asian
cultures.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC345/ASIA343/INTS345   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the formation
and structure of South and Southeast Asian political systems, the
patterns of political participation and behavior of diverse individuals and
groups in South and Southeast Asian societies, and evaluate the roles
and processes of South and Southeast Asian political institutions
PLSC 346   East Asian Politics   (3 Credit Hours)   
(ASIA 342) (INTS 346) The social forces and structure of politics and
government of East Asia.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC346/ASIA342/INTS346   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the formation
and structure of East Asian political systems, the patterns of political
participation and behavior of diverse individuals and groups in East Asian
societies, and evaluate the roles and processes of East Asian political
institutions

--- Page 188 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 219
PLSC 347   The European Union   (3 Credit Hours)   
(INTS 381) An introduction to the European Union, a regional organization
linking the nations of Europe.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies, Polish Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC347/INTS381   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the formation
and structure of the European Union, the patterns of political participation
and behavior of diverse individuals, groups, and governments in the
European Union, and evaluate the roles and processes of the European
Union's political institutions
PLSC 348   Soviet & Post-Soviet Politics   (3 Credit Hours)   
(INTS 382) An examination of the institutions, processes, and policies of
the former Soviet Union and its successor states.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies, Polish Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC348/INTS382   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the formation
and structure of the former Soviet Union, the patterns of political
participation and behavior of diverse individuals and groups in the former
Soviet Union, and evaluate the roles and processes of the former Soviet
Union's political institutions; Students will also be able to understand the
collapse of the former Soviet Union and the formation and structure of its
successor states
PLSC 349   Eastern European Politics   (3 Credit Hours)   
(INTS 382) An examination of the institutions, processes, and policies of
the former Soviet Union and its successor states.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies, Polish Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC349/INTS349   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the formation
and structure of the former Soviet Union, the patterns of political
participation and behavior of diverse individuals and groups in the former
Soviet Union, and evaluate the roles and processes of the former Soviet
Union's political institutions; Students will also be able to understand the
collapse of the former Soviet Union and the formation and structure of its
successor states
PLSC 350   Politics of International Economic Relations   (3 Credit Hours)   
(INTS 350) An examination of international political-economic relations
with an emphasis on the post-World War II period.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC350/INTS350   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the
interrelationship between the international economic and political
systems
PLSC 351   Latin American International System   (3 Credit Hours)   
(INTS 395) (LASP 341) An introduction to the international relations of the
countries of Latin America and the Caribbean. The primary focus is the
evolution of Latin American and Caribbean international relations during
the Cold War period Students will gain an in-depth knowledge of how U.S.
influence, revolutionary insurgencies, trade, the illicit narcotics trafﬁc,
human rights concerns, and international organizations have positively
and negatively affected the region.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Latin American Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC351/INTS395/LASP341   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the
interrelationship between the international system and the foreign
policies of the countries of Latin America and the CaribbeanPLSC 352   Canadian Politics   (3 Credit Hours)   
(INTS 320) The Canadian system of government, focusing on the
Parliament, the Prime Minister and permanent government, the judiciary,
political actors such as organized interests, political parties, mass media,
and public opinion.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC352/INTS320   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the Canadian
political system, the patterns of political participation and behavior of
diverse individuals and groups in Canadian society, and evaluate the roles
and processes of Canadian political institutions
PLSC 353   International Law   (3 Credit Hours)   
(INTS 353) (PAX 353) Introduction to legal principles and procedures of
recognized international law.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Peace, Justice, and Conflict
Studies, Sociolegal Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC353/INTS353/PAX 353   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the role
and impact of law and legal principles and institutions in international
relations
PLSC 354   Global Environmental Politics   (3 Credit Hours)   
(ESP 354) (INTS 354) (PAX 354) Examines the linkages between the
world's natural environment and the global political system.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Peace, Justice, and Conflict
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC/ESP/INTS/PAX 354   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the role of
various private, national and international actors in the formulation,
adoption and implementation of environmental public policies
PLSC 355C   Women and Politics: A Cross-National Perspective   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course offers a cross-national perspective of women's status in
the political world, as voters, activists, and ofﬁceholders. It examines
women's participation in the developed and developing world. Students
will acquire knowledge of the role of women as political actors in a
multitude of nations in the world.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  PLSC355C/WSGS355C/INTS361C   
PLSC 356   Intervent in World Politics   (3 Credit Hours)   
(INTS 356) (PAX 356) Examines the purposeful use of political, economic,
and military instruments by one country to influence the domestic or the
foreign policies of another country.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Peace, Justice, and Conflict
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC356/INTS356/PAX 356   
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an in-depth knowledge of the historical evolution,
potential constraints, and case studies of U.S. intervention in the post
World-War II era

--- Page 189 ---
220  College of Arts and Sciences
PLSC 357   Hollywood and Law   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course analyzes ﬁlms that focus on justice, the law, and the legal
system, to see what they tell us about political and legal culture, and what
messages (if any) they have for contemporary politics.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global & International Studies, Global &
International Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC357/INTS357   
Outcomes:
Student will analyze how Hollywood portrays law, policy, and major trials
and court decisions as well as be able to locate and ask questions about
how the depiction of law, politics, and civic responsibility have changed
across time
PLSC 358   War, Peace and Politics   (3 Credit Hours)   
(PAX 358) The historical evolution of war, the nature of wars in the 20th
century and into the 21st century, the nature of threats, sources of
conflict, and procedures for peaceful resolution of disputes.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC358/INTS358/PAX 358   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the principal
causes of wars, the means and ends of warfare, and the process and
prospects of reestablishing peace
PLSC 358D   The Scientiﬁc Study of War   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides an introduction to & overview of the concepts
& approaches related to the causes of war, conflict, and peace in
the international system. The main topics of the course are: (1) an
introduction to understanding war as a social science topic, (2) the
origins of the demands and disputes that can lead to war, (3) the
escalation of these, (4) the expansion of war, (5) the consequences of
war, and (6) the possibility of peace.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
PLSC 359   Revolutions   (3 Credit Hours)   
(INTS 368) A critical examination of different empirical theories of
revolution. Case studies will be drawn from Europe, Asia, Africa, and the
Americas.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC359/INTS384   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze and assess the causes, development, and
consequences of modern revolutionary movements and revolutions
PLSC 360   Western European Politics   (3 Credit Hours)   
(INTS 360) Comparative study of the structures, processes, and functions
of the parties and governments of the western powers with emphasis on
the United Kingdom, France and the German Federal Republic.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  PLSC360/INTS360   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the formation
and structure of West European political systems, the patterns of political
participation and behavior of diverse individuals and groups in West
European societies, and evaluate the roles and processes of West
European political institutionsPLSC 362   Politics Developing Societies   (3 Credit Hours)   
(INTS 362) Social, economic, and ideological factors influencing political
developments in emerging nations.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC362/INTS362   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the foundation
and structure of emerging nations, the patterns of political participation
and behavior of diverse individuals, groups, and governments in
developing societies, and evaluate the roles and processes of political
institutions in developing societies
PLSC 363   International Politics   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is intended to serve as an advanced exploration of the ﬁeld of
international politics. Students will explore the most recent developments
in international relations theory and select political developments within
the international system, including the evolution of these developments
in various regions of the world.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will hone their ability to assess/critique cutting edge theories
and developments within the ﬁeld of international politics
PLSC 364   UN & International Organization   (3 Credit Hours)   
(INTS 364) (PAX 364) An examination of the purposes, organization,
background, and operations of existing international organizations.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Peace, Justice, and Conflict
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC364/INTS364/PAX 364   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the formation
and structure of various International Organizations, especially the
United Nations, the patterns of political participation and behavior of
individuals, private and public groups, and governments in International
Organizations, and evaluate the roles and processes of International
Organizations
PLSC 365   Italian Politics & Government   (3 Credit Hours)   
(INTS 365) (ROST 365) An examination of the institutions, processes, and
practices of Italian political life. Major concern is with post-1945 Italian
politics.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies, Italian Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC365/INTS365/ROST365   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the formation
and structure of Italy's contemporary political system, the patterns of
political participation and behavior of diverse individuals and groups in
Italian society, and evaluate the roles and processes of Italian political
institutions
PLSC 366   Dictatorship   (3 Credit Hours)   
This comparative politics course examines the origins, dynamics, and
contradictions of various nondemocratic forms of government, including
military and party dictatorships.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC366/INTS366   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to explain why authoritarian systems rise and fall
and how politics in these systems compares to the political process in
democratic states

--- Page 190 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 221
PLSC 367   Model United Nations   (3 Credit Hours)   
Introduction to the operations and practices of United Nations, including
training for student participation in the Model U.N. program. Students
taking PLSC 367 Model UN class and act as leaders of the team that
represents Loyola at the New York conference. Prior permission required
to enroll.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Global Studies, Peace Studies,
Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies, Global Studies, Global Studies,
Peace Studies, Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC367/INTS367/PAX 367   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the formation and
structure of the United Nations; Understanding in enhanced by the
practical experience gained by participating in Loyola's Model UN
program
PLSC 368   Politics of the Middle East   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will draw upon the theoretical insights of comparative
politics to examine politics in the Middle East and North Africa. The
seminar focuses on issues that are important for understanding
the contemporary politics of the region, from the persistence of
authoritarianism, petropolitics, political Islam, Arab-Israeli conflict,
and the rise of ISIS to ethnic divisions, gender relations, and social
movements.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Arabic Language and Culture, Global Studies,
Islamic World Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC368/INTS391/IWS368   
PLSC 369   Politics of Energy   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course will discuss how the challenges of climate change, e nergy
security, and poverty alleviation are being tackled by politicians and
the public. It will also assess the degree to which changes in energy
resources bring changes in economic, political, and social power.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global & International Studies, Global Studies,
Islamic World Studies, Peace Studies, Global & International Studies,
Global Studies, Islamic World Studies, Peace Studies   
Course equivalencies:  PLSC369/INTS386/PAX386/IWS369   
Outcomes:
Students will gain a ﬁrm understanding of the various global and regional
trends that are shaping 21st Century foreign policy behavior generally,
and energy diplomacy speciﬁcally
PLSC 370   Fieldwork in Political Science-Internship   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
Practical experience in political and governmental agencies and
organizations in Chicago and Washington, D.C.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students learn about different forms of public service and the ethical
responsibilities of civic engagement; Working in a professional ofﬁce for
ﬁfteen weeks allows students to experience the world of public service
ﬁrst-hand; Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of
models of leadership and public service by working with supervisors who
are normally leaders in their ﬁeldsPLSC 371   Roman Law   (3 Credit Hours)   
(CLST 362) An introduction to the general principles and basic concepts
of Roman civil law with emphasis upon the Late Republican-Early
Imperial period.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-CLST362/PLSC371/ROST362   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the
assumptions and principles guiding the formulation and implementation
of Roman civil law
PLSC 372   Crime, Race & Violence   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course discusses the political aspects that affect crime and violence
in the United states, with a special focus on questions of race.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Human
Services, Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies, Psychology of Crime and
Justice, Sociolegal Studies, Urban Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-CJC/BWS/AFR/PLSC372/PAX373   
PLSC 373   Politics and Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
Literature as a medium of political analysis and political criticism. The
literary tradition examined may vary, and the course may be repeated for
credit, depending on the subject matter.
Outcomes:
Students will learn to interpret and evaluate the political assumptions and
principles underlying the writings of major literary ﬁgures, and to reflect
on the role and signiﬁcance of literature in promoting a more just society
PLSC 374   Democracy   (3 Credit Hours)   
A critical examination of the theory and practice of democratic
government. The subﬁeld to which this course belongs varies depending
on its content.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze and assess the theoretical arguments
for and against democracy, and to demonstrate an understanding of the
various institutional arrangements of democratic government
PLSC 376   Political Behavior and Public Opinion   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will cover a range of topics pertaining to public opinion and
political behavior in the United States. Topics will include how public
opinion is measured, research on the factors that shape public attitudes
about political matters, and work that examines who participates in
politics and why.
Outcomes:
Students will learn about substantive scholarly ﬁndings on these topics,
as well as the methodologies researchers use to answer questions about
public opinion and political participation
PLSC 377   American Public Policies   (3 Credit Hours)   
Public policy-making at the national and state government levels;
includes social, economic, ﬁscal, judicial, and moral policies.
Course equivalencies:  PLSC377 / PLSC205   
Outcomes:
Students will obtain in-depth knowledge of a unique topic in th e area of
American public policy adoption and implementation

--- Page 191 ---
222  College of Arts and Sciences
PLSC 378   Intro to Political Economy   (3 Credit Hours)   
The relationships between political and economic systems with an
emphasis on revenues and expenditures, and the consequences of ﬁscal
and monetary policies on economic activity.
Course equivalencies:  PLSC378 / PLSC207   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze the role of the economy and economic
actors in the adoption of public policies, especially in the formulation and
implementation of the budget, and their impact on the economic lives of
citizens
PLSC 379   The Legislative Process   (3 Credit Hours)   
Legislative campaigns and elections, the formal procedures of law
making, the influence of political parties and interest groups, and the
interaction with the president, the judiciary, and the bureaucracy.
Course equivalencies:  PLSC379 / PLSC210   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze and assess the role and processes of the
US Congress in the deliberation and formulation of domestic policies and
their impact on the everyday lives of citizens
PLSC 380   Public Policy Analysis   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course offers a broad approach to the study of public policy.
PLSC 381   The American Presidency   (3 Credit Hours)   
The powers, roles, and responsibilities of the presidential ofﬁce with
special attention to political leadership, the bureaucracy, and political
parties.
Course equivalencies:  PLSC381 / PLSC211   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze and assess the role and impact of the
U.S. presidency on domestic policy and foreign affairs
PLSC 384   The Judicial Process   (3 Credit Hours)   
The judicial process in the American court system from the Supreme
Court to local trial courts, civil and criminal procedure, appellate court
decision-making, and the impact of judicial policies on American politics
and society.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Sociolegal Studies   
Course equivalencies:  PLSC384 / PLSC212   
Outcomes:
Students will be able analyze and assess the role and impact of the U.S.
court system on the protection of individual freedoms and civil rights
PLSC 385   Introduction to Law   (3 Credit Hours)   
The nature of law in society, including the constitutional origins and
institutional structure of legal systems, the practices of the legal
profession, and the substance of selected areas of case law.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Sociolegal Studies   
Course equivalencies:  CRMJ375/PLSC385/PLSC214   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand the role of law and the legal system in
American politics and its impact on the everyday lives of citizens
PLSC 386   Campaigns and Elections   (3 Credit Hours)   
The organization, functions, and behavior of political parties and
elections in the United States.
Course equivalencies:  PLSC386 / PLSC217   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze and evaluate the role and impact of
political parties and elections on the American political systemPLSC 387   Politics and the Press   (3 Credit Hours)   
A study of the dynamics between politics and the press, including its
impact on campaigns, elections, and public policy.
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC387/CMUN340   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze and assess the role and impact of the
press on the American politics
PLSC 388   The Morality and Legality of War   (3 Credit Hours)   
Competing perspectives on the moral, legal, and practical challenges
of military force as a tool of foreign policy, especially focused on the
complexity of using force to pursue humanitarian goals.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of just w ar theory,
international humanitarian law, and major theories of humanitarianism,
to analyze the stakes and trade-offs involved in decisions about war and
peace, and to critically engage with contemporary foreign policy events
PLSC 389   State Politics   (3 Credit Hours)   
A comparative study of the composition and powers of state
governments.
Course equivalencies:  PLSC389 / PLSC221   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of state
governments, the patterns of political participation and behavior of
diverse individuals and groups in state politics, and evaluate the roles and
processes of state political institutions
PLSC 390   Urban Politics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Political processes in cities and other local governments, Examination
of mayors, city councils, bureaucrats, and their interaction with local
citizens and interest groups.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services, Race and Ethnicity, Urban
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  PLSC390 / PLSC222   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of urban
governments, the patterns of political participation and behavior of
diverse individuals and groups in urban politics, and evaluate the roles
and processes of urban political institutions
PLSC 391   Chicago Politics   (3 Credit Hours)   
The political groups in Chicago, their political power and impact on city
politics and policy. Attention will be given to the powers and roles of city
council and the mayor's ofﬁce.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services, Italian American Studies   
Course equivalencies:  PLSC391 / PLSC224   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of Chicago
government, the patterns of political participation and behavior of diverse
individuals and groups in Chicago politics, and evaluate the roles and
processes of Chicago's political institutions
PLSC 392   Environmental Politics   (3 Credit Hours)   
The issues, signiﬁcant actors, and public policies relating to the
environment. (ESP 235) (PAX 235)
Interdisciplinary Option:  Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies, Urban
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  PLSC392/PLSC/ESP/PAX235   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze and assess the role of various actors in
the formulation, adoption and implementation of environmental public
policies, and their impact on the everyday lives of citizens

--- Page 192 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 223
PLSC 393   Black Politics   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will present a general overview of black politics in America,
including the major black political ideologies and their theoretical
underpinnings and the role of race in urban politics in the late twentieth
and early twenty-ﬁrst centuries.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST374/PLSC393/BWS374   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of how the circumstances of
Reconstruction shaped black political ideologies; how blacks came into
political power in major urban centers; and what the contours of debate
are in the black community over provocative issues such as the criminal
justice system, afﬁrmative action, reparations, and education
PLSC 395   Political Science Honors Seminar   (3 Credit Hours)   
Variable titles. Investigation of selected topics or methods in Political
Science.
Outcomes:
Students will gain an in-depth knowledge of a unique topic or method in
Political Science
PLSC 396   Directed Readings   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Opportunity for an unusually accomplished student to pursue a discrete
area of knowledge in political studies in a format designed to stimulate
highly productive effort.
Outcomes:
Students will hone research and writing skills in close collaboration with
a faculty sponsor
PLSC 397   Urban Studies Research   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course allows students to engage in research-related projects related
to urban studies.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Urban Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC397/URB397   
PLSC 398   Washington DC Internship Seminar   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course requires you to combine your academic interests and
your internship, allowing you to reflect on and think deeply about the
relationship between your internship, experience and academic learning.
This course will also explore political Washington.
Outcomes:
This course will clarify students' career goals, and demonstrate how
these goals can be enhanced by their academic work
PLSC 399   Tunisia On-Site: Arab Spring, Democratic Change, Islam   (3
Credit Hours)   
A combination of site visits, lectures, and group discussions throughout
Tunisia provides a unique experiential understanding of the relationship
between the Arab spring, democratic change, Islam, gender relations, and
U.S. foreign policy amidst the historical inheritances of the Carthaginian,
Roman, Islamic, and French empires in North Africa.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Arabic
Language and Culture, Global Studies, Islamic World Studies, Women &
Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC 399/HIST 313T   
Outcomes:
Experientially based knowledge of the politics, society, culture, history,
and international relations of a country (Tunisia) in a region (North Africa)
at the intersection of Africa and the Middle EastPortuguese (PORT)
PORT 101   Portuguese I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to the basic elements of Portuguese that
will enable the student to develop communicative language skills and
fundamental cultural knowledge. This course is designed for students
with no previous experience in Portuguese.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand simple messages and short
narratives, respond to basic inquiries and provide personal information
orally and in writing, as well as understand basic written texts and
cultural contexts
PORT 102   Elementary Portuguese II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Portuguese 101 or equivalent   
This course is a continuation of the introduction to the basic elements
of Portuguese that will enable the student to develop communicative
language skills and cultural knowledge.
Outcomes:
Students will continue to develop their basic comprehension, speaking,
reading and writing skills and cultural knowledge in the Portuguese
language
Psychology (PSYC)
PSYC 100   Psychological Perspectives on the Experience of
Globalization   (3 Credit Hours)   
Globalization from a psychological perspective. Applying core
psychological concepts, research and theory to cross-cultural issues of
behavior and development. Topics may include human rights of children,
human trafﬁcking, immigration, moral issues of international trade,
parenting across cultures.
Knowledge Area:  Foundational Societal Knowledge   
Outcomes:
Students will learn basic concepts and theories and apply them to real-
world globalization problems
PSYC 101   General Psychology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100, PLSC 102, PSYC 100, SOCL 101, WSGS 101, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
Introduction to concepts, theories, and methods in psychology. Emphasis
is given to the scientiﬁc study of consciousness and human behavior.
Topics include: human development, learning, thinking, perception,
personality, testing, mental illness and mental health, biological and
social aspects of behavior.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services, Psychology of Crime and
Justice   
Course equivalencies:  ACPSY 201 / PSYC 101   
Outcomes:
Students will master basic concepts and key theories and learn to apply
them to real-world situations

--- Page 193 ---
224  College of Arts and Sciences
PSYC 201   Psychology Advising and Career Development   (1 Credit
Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101, PSYC-BS major   
Overview of the psychology major at Loyola and career options in
psychology. Introduces students to psychology career development
resources. Students will also prepare for opportunities in independent
research and internships and plan for a career including creating a
resume and CV.
Outcomes:
Students will learn about career options in psychology and plan their
psychology major to support and develop their career interests
PSYC 225   Psychology of Peace   (3 Credit Hours)   
Application of psychological theories, concepts, and research to issues
of peace and conflict. Areas covered include international conflicts
and international peacebuilding (including war, terrorism, and global
environmental issues) as well as interpersonal conflicts and conflict
resolution (including crime, family violence, and conflict arising from
prejudice and perceived threat). Classic theories of peace are also
analyzed and connected to psychological theory and research.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies   
Course equivalencies:  PSYC 225/PAX225   
PSYC 235   Psychology of Human Sexuality   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101   
This course will explore sexuality as a multi-faceted and diverse
phenomenon structured by individual experience, interpersonal
relationships, and societal institutions. Topics include anatomy and
physiology, intersectionality, power and privilege, sexual diversity,
attraction and love, relationships, and sexual health education.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics, Human Services, Women & Gender
Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the biological,
psychological and socio-cultural aspects of human sexuality, along with
gender and sexual diversity
PSYC 237   Cross-Cultural Psychology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101   
Students will learn about cultural factors that influence cognition,
perception, emotion, behavior, motivation, and mental health. Similarities
and difference in both explicit and implicit cultural factors will be
emphasized. Students will explore their identities, values, and biases.
Students will engage in reflection to increase cultural awareness and
sensitivity towards others.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of concepts and research
methodologies in cross-cultural psychology; Students will develop critical
thinking skills, as well as increased cultural awareness and sensitivity
towards othersPSYC 238   Gender & Sex Differences & Similarities   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100, PLSC 102, PSYC 100, SOCL 101, WSGS 101, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
Overview of psychological research and theory concerning differences
and similarities between genders. In this course, students will engage
psychological research and theory to examine the influence of gender on
all aspects of life. In general, emphasis will be placed on understanding
gender as a social psychological construct.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics, Human Services, Women & Gender
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  PSYC238/WOST238/WSGS238   
Outcomes:
Students will understand similarities and differences between genders,
comprehend the diversity of ideas about gender and how ideas of gender
are determined by societies and cultures
PSYC 239   Understanding Bias and Inclusivity   (3 Credit Hours)   
Using an intersectional lens, students learn about how privileg e, power,
and oppression shape ourselves, perceptions of others, and our social
world. They consider how ourselves and others are shaped by and
operate within the larger social system. Students explore their identities,
values, and biases. Students engage in self-reflection to increase self-
awareness. Articulate how personal power can be used to create change.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Race and Ethnicity, Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X - PSYC 239/ SOCL 239   
Outcomes:
Identify feelings about course topics; Demonstrate self-awareness
of identities and values, including the value of difference; Engage in
intergroup dialogue
PSYC 240   Psychology-Biology of Perception   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101; For Biology majors: BIOL 102, BIOL 112, and
PSYC 101 Introduction to the study of sensory systems, especially vision
and audition, emphasizing historical development of the ﬁeld, multi-
disciplinary scientiﬁc approaches; recent research and theory on the
mechanisms of seeing and hearing; and applications of research to real-
world problems   
PSYC 240 is cross-listed with BIOL 240.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Course equivalencies:  X-PSYC240/BIOL240   
Outcomes:
Students will understand and be able to explain how knowledge of
the functioning of sensory systems is obtained using a variety of
experimental methods, how stimulus energy is translated into neural
signals, how the brain processes sensory information, and how these
processes determine conscious perception
PSYC 250   Cognitive Psychology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101   
Overview of cognitive psychology. Topics include: human information
processing, object recognition, memory, attention, language production
and comprehension, reasoning and problem solving.
Outcomes:
Students will understand and be able to explain how knowledge about
mental events is obtained using a variety of experimental methods,
discuss current empirical research and theories of cognition, understand
well established cognitive theories about attention, memory, language
processing, reasoning and decision-making

--- Page 194 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 225
PSYC 251   Learning and Memory   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Grade of C- or better in PSYC 101 and NEUR 101   
This course surveys the ﬁeld of learning and memory, including working,
episodic, and semantic memory, nonassociative learning, classical and
operant conditioning, skill learning, and neuroplasticity. Behavioral,
neuroscientiﬁc, and clinical perspectives will be considered.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
PSYC 273   Developmental Psychology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101   
Survey of theory and research relevant to human growth and
development with emphasis on physical, cognitive, and social
development from infancy through adolescence.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services   
Course equivalencies:  X-CPSY273/PSYC273   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of basic theory and research
in human development, and will develop skills in critical examination
of psychological research as applied to current issues in human
development
PSYC 274   Lifespan Development   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101   
This course provides a survey of current theory, research, and
applications on development (physical, cognitive, and social/emotional
development) that are present at each stage of the lifespan. Normal
development is emphasized; however, special human circumstances are
also explored.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of theory and research in
development across the lifespan; Students will develop critical thinking
skills, applying research to contemporary issues in lifespan development
PSYC 275   Social Psychology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100, PLSC 102, PSYC 100, SOCL 101, WSGS 101, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
Introduction to the ﬁeld of social psychology; including topics such
as social cognition, impression formation, social influence, attitude
formation and change, stereotyping and prejudice, aggression, pro-social
behavior, and group behavior.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services, Psychology of Crime and
Justice   
Course equivalencies:  ACPSY 275 / PSYC 275   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate the ability to think critically about fundamental
theoretical approaches within social psychology, scientiﬁc methods of
hypothesis testing, and potential applications of social psychology that
address real-world problems
PSYC 276   Philosophy of Mind   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHIL 130   
This course is a study of the different philosophical views regarding the
nature and the existence of the mind and its relation to material bodies.
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the various
philosophical views and problems regarding the mind and its relation to
matter.
Course equivalencies:  X-PSYC 276/ PHIL 276/PHIL 176   PSYC 277   Environmental Psychology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Human behavior is at the root of environmental degradation. This course
examines how psychological processes influence behaviors that help or
hurt the environment and how psychology can promote conservation.
The course identiﬁes theory-based interventions and evaluates their
effectiveness. Class activities allow students to practice applying
psychology to promote environmental sustainability.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to identify the psychological bases of environmental
problems; Students will be introduced to theories and practical strategies
to change behavior as it relates to environmental issues
PSYC 280   Psychology of Judgment and Decision-Making   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHIL 130 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions; Students can only take one
course from PHIL 279, PSYC 279, PSYC 280   
This course examines the forces that shape decision-making, from the
individual and day-to-day to the shaping of public policy. Psychological
research on cognitive biases, economic models, and philosophical
perspectives on deductive reasoning and what makes a good decision
will be discussed.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Philosophical Knowledge   
Outcomes:
Students will learn fundamental principles and theories - including
various biases and decision-making errors, and learn to apply the course
to improve thinking, problem-solving, and decisions
PSYC 302   History & Systems in Psychology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101   
A systematic treatment of the historical roots and foundation of
psychology. Special emphasis is placed on relating past trends to current
developments in the ﬁeld.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of the foundations of psychology
as a science, including major schools and theoretical frameworks, and
make connections between past trends and current approaches
PSYC 304   Statistics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101   
This course is an introduction to fundamentals of statistical analysis in
psychology.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate the ability to analyze data, interpret the
results of research using basic statistical methods, and understand
the conceptual foundation, appropriate use, and limitations of these
statistical methods
PSYC 306   Research Methods in Psychology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 304   
Logic and theory of the scientiﬁc method. Basic principles of scientiﬁc
research methodologies employed in approaching major problem areas in
psychology. This class is writing intensive.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services, Urban Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge and skills necessary to formulate
research questions and hypotheses, develop research designs,
operationalize variables and gather data in an ethical manner, choose
appropriate statistical methods for analyzing data, interpret results of
statistical analyses, write a scientiﬁc paper in APA style, and critically
evaluate research

--- Page 195 ---
226  College of Arts and Sciences
PSYC 307   Psychology of Language   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101   
Analysis of language as symbol-behavior speciﬁc to humans,
language structure and competence, language performance, and
the neurophysiological basis of language. Methods for investigating
language processing, acquisition, bilingualism, and language disorders
will be considered.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of major theories, research
methodologies, and empirical knowledge in the study of language
PSYC 310   Lab in Program Evaluation   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 306; PSYC 275 is also recommended   
Special attention is given to the fundamental skills needed to evaluate
human service programs including research methodology and research
diplomacy. The strengths and weaknesses of several evaluation
strategies will be discussed in terms of scientiﬁc validity, ethical
constraints, and political acceptability.
Outcomes:
Students apply their developing evaluation skills in a class project and
present the data in a written report
PSYC 311   Lab in Psychobiology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (BIOL/STAT 335 or PSYC 304) and (NEUR 101, PSYC/
BIOL 240, or PSYC 382/BIOL 284); OR for PSYC-BS and Cognitive/
Behavioral Neuroscience majors: PSYC 306 and (NEUR 101, PSYC/
BIOL 240, or PSYC 382/BIOL 284) Minimum grades of C-   
Introduction to the structures and functions of vertebrate
nervous systems, how these systems compute and process
information; laboratory experience with concepts and methods in the
neurophysiological study of the bases of perception and other behaviors.
Hearing is used as an example. PSYC 311 is cross-listed with BIOL 313.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Course equivalencies:  X-PSYC311/BIOL313   
Outcomes:
Students will learn the concepts of basic neurophysiology and the
theory of signal detectability, and have experience applying the logic and
formulation of neurophysiological theories of perception
PSYC 312   Lab in Cognitive Neuroscience   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 306 and PSYC 382   
This course is a laboratory practicum in the techniques of cognitive
neuroscience, with an emphasis on electrophysiological and
hemodynamic methods of measuring nervous system function during
cognitive and behavioral tasks and the effects of noninvasive brain
stimulation.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Outcomes:
Students will develop scientiﬁc research skills as they relate to the ﬁeld
of cognitive neuroscience, including experimental design, physiological
methods of data collection, statistical analysis and interpretation, and
reporting ﬁndingsPSYC 313   Lab in Behavioral Neuroscience   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 306 and either PSYC 251 or PSYC 382   
Provides an understanding of the structure and function of the brain as
it relates to behavior through empirical data collection and analyses.
Course objectives will be met through demonstrations, hands-on
laboratory experience with different behavioral assays, histology, an
evaluation of scientiﬁc literature, and scientiﬁc communication via poster
presentations.
Outcomes:
Develop a breadth of neuroscientiﬁc knowledge and skills involving
critical thinking, research ethics, experimental design, animal behavior,
data collection and analysis, and dissemination of scientiﬁc ﬁndings in
different formats
PSYC 314   Lab in Experimental Psychology: Cognition   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 306 (C-) and (C- in PSYC 250, PSYC 251, PSCY 307, or
PSYC 382)   
Laboratory demonstrations, experiments, and microcomputer
applications in the area of human cognition. Topics vary, but include
learning, memory, thinking and language processing.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Outcomes:
Students gain skills and experience in experimental design,
measurement, statistical analyses, and report writing as they relate to
research on human cognition
PSYC 315   Lab in Tests & Measurements   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 306 and either PSYC 331 or PSYC 346   
Topics include: theory of psychological testing and assessment;
historical context and related legal and ethical considerations; basics
of test construction and evaluation, including reliability, validity, and
standardization; and common measures of personality, attitudes, and
ability and their psychometric properties. PSYC 338 is recommended.
Outcomes:
Students will learn to demonstrate proﬁciency with psychological testing
terminology and concepts
PSYC 316   Lab in Experimental Psychology: Sense & Perception   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 306, NEUR 101 (formerly PSYC/BIOL 202) or
PSYC 240   
Laboratory demonstrations, experiments, and microcomputer
applications to the psychophysical and physiological study of sensory
systems. The course stresses the research methods and quantitative
measures that are used in characterizing sensory processes, especially
visual and auditory systems.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Outcomes:
Students gain skills and experience in experimental design,
measurement, statistical analyses, and report writing as they relate to
research in sensory processes
PSYC 318   Lab in Developmental Psychology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  C- or better in PSYC 306 and either PSYC 273 or PSYC 274   
Lecture and laboratory on empirical studies of developmental processes
in humans. Focus is on research in particular content areas within
developmental stages (e.g., infancy, childhood, adolescence, adulthood)
and research on changes in behavior across time.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate skills and knowledge of developmental
methodology, designing, conducting, and analyzing and interpreting the
results of a research project, and writing a research paper in APA format

--- Page 196 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 227
PSYC 321   Laboratory-Social Psychology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 275 and 306   
Lectures, demonstrations, readings, and individual or group research
projects illustrating various methods, such as observation, interviewing,
archives, standardized tests, and experimentation, are used to learn about
topics such as group influences on the individual, attitudes, prosocial and
antisocial behavior, and perception of self and others.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate skills and knowledge of methodology in
social psychological research; designing, conducting, and analyzing and
interpreting the results of a research project, and writing a research paper
in APA format
PSYC 327   Lab on Body Image   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  C- or better in PSYC 306 and either PSYC 275 or PSYC 338   
Lab on Body Image focuses on the scholarly study of body image and
eating disorders, as well as how research is conducted in the ﬁeld.
Students will complete smaller labs and a larger research project in the
ﬁeld.
Outcomes:
1) Learn about the scholarly study of body image and eating dis orders;
2) Learn general research methods in Psychology and speciﬁc ones
pertaining to the topic; 3) Learn about computer packages, including
SPSS to analyze data
PSYC 331   Psychopathology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101   
Nature and causes of maladjustment and mental disorders. History of
mental illness, diagnosis, research, and treatment of mental disorders.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services, Psychology of Crime and
Justice   
Course equivalencies:  X-CPSY333/PSYC331/ACPSY280   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of current approaches
to researching maladaptive behavior, current views of maladaptive
behavior, major categories of "mental disorders", factors contributing to
development of problems, different types of intervention strategies, and
appreciation of social, ethical, and legal issues
PSYC 332   Affective Neuroscience   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101 or NEUR 101 (formerly PSYC/BIOL 202)   
Affective experiences promote human adaptability and survival,
and healthy emotion function is critical to promoting physical and
psychological well being. The course will provide an overview of
fundamental neurobiological correlates associated with emotion function
and processing affective stimuli.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Outcomes:
Students will understand theories regarding brain mechanisms
associated with emotion processing and the techniques used for
studying these mechanisms
PSYC 338   Psychology of Personality   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101 Facts and principles of personality study   
Nature of personality, its structure, development, expression, and
measurement. Exposition and evaluation of personality study methods
with critical review of traditional and modern theories of personality.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Psychology of Crime and Justice   
Course equivalencies:  X-CPSY338/PSYC338   
Outcomes:
Students will acquire an understanding of different personality theories,
critically evaluate these theories, and apply what they have learnedPSYC 340   Psychology of Women   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101   
Review of psychological aspects of women's experiences. Topics include
psychological aspects of biological events such as menarche, pregnancy,
menopause; aspects of women's work and family roles; and mental
health issues relevant to women.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services, Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  PSYC340/WOST340/WSGS340   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of critical contemporary issues
impacting women and girls, and critically evaluate/analyze academic
theory, social institutions, and media
PSYC 346   Psychopathology of Childhood   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 273   
Consideration of the nature and causes of maladjustment, emotional
disorders, and learning disabilities in children in conjunction with
approaches to prevention and remediation.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services, Psychology of Crime and
Justice   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of the major categories of
childhood psychopathology and methods of diagnosis, theories of
causes of maladjustment and mental illness in children and adolescents,
and types of intervention strategies
PSYC 348   Psychology of Adolescence   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 273   
In-depth study of adolescence using an interdisciplinary approach.
Integration of cultural, social, psychological, and biological perspectives.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services, Psychology of Crime and
Justice   
Outcomes:
Students will appreciate the various factors leading to similarities and
differences in the experience of adolescence in America and in other
cultures, and will demonstrate understanding of major theories, research
methodologies, and empirical knowledge in the study of adolescence
PSYC 349   Maturity and Aging   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 273 with a C- or better   
Overview of theory and research relevant to middle age and aging. Topics
include personality, cognitive and social functioning as well as biological
functioning. Applications to life situations such as living arrangements,
provision of health services, and retirement are discussed.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics, Human Services   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of major theories, research
methodologies, and empirical knowledge in the study of maturity
and aging, and learn to recognize and reject myths and stereotypes
associated with adult development and aging
PSYC 350   Developmental Cognitive Neuroscience   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101, NEUR 101 (formerly PSYC/BIOL 202)   
An overview of theory and research relevant to the study of the
developing child through the use of neuroscience methods; topics may
include: brain plasticity and maturation, sensorimotor systems, attention,
memory, executive function, language, social cognition, and typical and
atypical development.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Outcomes:
Students will gain knowledge of basic theory and research in the ﬁeld of
developmental cognitive neuroscience and will acquire understanding of
brain and behavior relationships in a developmental context

--- Page 197 ---
228  College of Arts and Sciences
PSYC 352   Neuropsychology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101 and NEUR 101   
Neuropsychology is the interdisciplinary study of the relation between
human brain function and behavior. This course is an undergraduate
survey of topics related to neuropsychology, including neuroanatomy,
psychophysiology, and cognitive neuroscience. A primary goal of the
course is to introduce undergraduate students to neuropsychological
concepts in research and applied settings.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Outcomes:
Successful completion of this course leads to mastery of CNS function
and structure; The ability to integrate this information will allow students
to develop and test hypotheses about brain-behavior relationships
PSYC 353   Applied Social Psychology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 275   
Applications of principles and methods of social psychology to social
issues and problems in such areas as: law and justice, health and health
care, education, natural and built environments, population, work, life and
intergroup relations.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate the ability to apply knowledge of major
theories, research methodologies, and empirical knowledge in social
psychology to real-world issues and problems
PSYC 355   Neuroethics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  students must have taken at least two philosophy courses   
This course focuses on ethical considerations emerging from
contemporary research in neuroscience, as well as neuroscientiﬁc
techniques for studying ethical questions. Students will be able to
demonstrate understanding of the ways in which the study of ethics and
neuroscience inform each other
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Course equivalencies:  X - PSYC355/PHIL355   
PSYC 356   Consumer Psychology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101   
Introduction to the ﬁeld of consumer psychology; including topics such
as consumer attitude formation and change, persuasive communication
and consumer behavior, the psychology of advertising, consumer
decision making, personality and consumer behavior, identity and
consumer behavior, and culture and consumer behavior.
Outcomes:
Students will understand and apply theoretical approaches within
consumer psychology and the psychology of advertising
PSYC 360   Understanding Prejudice   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101   
Prejudice from a psychological perspective. Applying psychological
concepts, research, and theory to understand the origins and
consequences of prejudice as well as potential remedies.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora,
Psychology of Crime and Justice, Race and Ethnicity, Women & Gender
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  BWS360/WSGS360   
Outcomes:
Students will learn the origins of stereotypes and prejudice, the nature
of prejudice against different social groups, how people are affected by
prejudice and cope with prejudice, and the processes that may change
stereotypes, reduce prejudice, and improve intergroup relationsPSYC 362   Industrial/Organizational Psychology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  C- or better in PSYC 101 Outcomes: Students will
demonstrate understanding and ability to think critically about how the
science of behavior is applied to work environments   
Study of human behavior in work settings. Topics include principles of
employee selection, job analysis, motivation and morale, managerial
behavior, organization development and socialization, leadership, conflict
management, work design and group process.
Course equivalencies:  PSYC362 / PSYC364   
PSYC 368   Counseling   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101; PSYC 331 or 338 is also recommended   
Introduction to the theory, techniques, and research behind major helping
interventions, focusing on individual psychotherapy with adults.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services   
Outcomes:
Students will critically evaluate different approaches to intervention
in terms of their theoretical underpinnings, applications, goals and
effectiveness, and will develop the ability to utilize some basic counseling
skills
PSYC 369   Psychology Honors Readings   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Membership in the Psychology Honors award program and
approval of the Department Honors Advisor   
Directed readings and development of a formal research proposal on a
topic of interest to the student and the faculty member with whom he/
she has chosen to work. Students are not restricted to working with the
faculty member whose name is listed in the schedule of classes.
Outcomes:
Students will write a literature review and research proposal for the
honors thesis
PSYC 370   Psychology Honors Research   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 369   
Students carry out the research proposed in PSYC 369 and prepare a
formal report constituting the honors thesis. Approval of the thesis by
the honors committee earns the psychology honors award. PSYC 370 is a
capstone course.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  PSYC370H / PSYC370   
Outcomes:
Students will conduct research, analyze and interpret data, and write a
thesis
PSYC 371   Psychology of Political Behavior   (3 Credit Hours)   
Examination of the determinants of political judgments and decision;
including topics such as voting preference, stereotypes and political
thinking, racism and political behavior, ideology and public opinion, the
effect of the media on political thought.
Outcomes:
Understanding of core theoretical and methodological approaches
commonly applied to the study of political psychology

--- Page 198 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 229
PSYC 372   Psychology & Law   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101   
Introduction to the areas of overlap between psychology and the
law. Topics include roles of psychologists in legal settings, accuracy
of eyewitness testimony, jury processes, accuracy of polygraph
examinations, and issues surrounding the insanity defense.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Psychology of Crime and Justice, Sociolegal
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X- CJC 377 / PSYC 372   
Outcomes:
Students will learn to analyze biases in the U.S. jury system, elucidate the
weaknesses of eyewitness testimony, outline the issues in the insanity
defense, understand the issues in Rape Trauma Syndrome and Battered
Spouse Syndrome, understand the methods and effects of scientiﬁc jury
selection, understand the complex issues surrounding confessions, and
view the US justice system in a social justice context
PSYC 373   Health Psychology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101   
Survey of psychological and behavioral influences on how people stay
healthy, why they become ill, and how they respond when they do become
ill. Topics include: health behavior and primary prevention, stress and
coping, patient-physician interaction, and management of chronic illness.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics, Human Services   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the complex
interaction of an individual's psychology and physical health, as well as
understanding of different intervention and prevention programs, the
structure of the health care system, and the various roles psychologists
play in this system
PSYC 374   Community Psychology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101   
Prevention of mental disorder and promotion of well-being, primarily
through creating more mentally healthy environments, but also by
enhancing individual resilience. Recognizing the toxicity of psychosocial
stressors such as inequality, poverty, alienation, and discrimination,
community psychologists also ﬁght for social justice through
empowerment of oppressed groups and policy advocacy. Understanding
of the methods of community psychology; effects of societal, cultural,
and environmental influences on psychological and community well-
being.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services, Neuroscience   
PSYC 375   Psychology of Addiction   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101   
Survey of historical, demographical, and statistical aspects of substance
abuse. Abuse of alcohol and drugs, as well as eating disorders, may
be considered. A variety of theoretical models and interventions are
discussed.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Psychology of Crime and Justice   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of the psychopharmacological
effects of various substances, major research ﬁndings in the area of
substance abuse, and prevention and intervention techniques
PSYC 376   Psychology of Religion   (3 Credit Hours)   
Introduction to the major issues, theories and empirical approaches in the
psychology of religion; effect of religion on beliefs, motivations, emotions
and behaviors.
Outcomes:
Understanding of the relationship between religion and psychological
variables (eg, adjustment, prejudice, and prosocial behavior)PSYC 377   Psychology of Music   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101   
Engagement in musical activities is common across all human cultures.
This course will introduce students to the interdisciplinary ﬁeld of
psychology of music and will focus on how humans perceive and are
affected by music, how we create music, and how music is integrated into
human life.
Outcomes:
Students will understand theories regarding brain mechanisms
associated with emotion processing and the techniques used for
studying these mechanisms
PSYC 378   Drugs and Behavior   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  NEUR 101   
This course will introduce students to neuropsychopharmacology.
Acute and long term effects of addictive drugs and drugs used to treat
psychiatric disorders on neural function and behavior are discussed by
integrating human and preclinical animal studies. Major types of drugs of
abuse, antidepressants, antipsychotics, and anxiolytics will be discussed.
Outcomes:
Knowledge of the mechanisms of action of drugs, including illicit drugs
and drugs used to treat psychiatric disorders
PSYC 381   Advanced Statistical Analysis-Computer:Social Science   (3
Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 304 or SOCL 301   
Expanded treatment of topics covered in PSYC 304 with emphasis on
using standard computer analysis packages (SPSS).
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate the ability to discuss theoretical assumptions
of various statistical techniques, choose the appropriate statistical test
in a variety of situations, use SPSS to enter data and perform a statistical
analysis, and interpret the results of statistical analyses
PSYC 382   Behavorial and Cognitive Neuroscience   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  For BIOL-BS, BIOL-MINR, and BIOE-BS students: BIOL 102
and NEUR 101   
For all others: NEUR 101. Overview of topics and methodologies used in
behavioral and cognitive neuroscience including: attention, learning and
memory, language, reasoning, decision making, intelligence, emotions,
social cognition, and consciousness. BIOL 284 is cross-listed with
PSYC 382.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Course equivalencies:  X-PSYC 382/BIOL 284   
Outcomes:
Students will understand theories regarding brain mechanisms,
underlying mental events and the technologies used for studying these
mechanisms

--- Page 199 ---
230  College of Arts and Sciences
PSYC 383   Methods in Computational Neuroscience   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  NEUR 101; (MATH 131 or MATH 161); and (COMP 150,
COMP 170, COMP 180, or DSCI 101) This course introduces the methods
necessary to work with computational models of neural processing in the
brain   
These methods include differential equations for neuroscience, Simulink
programming, linear algebra for neural networks, MATLAB coding, and
probability theory for neuroscience. For each method, classes will include
lectures, and computer exercises or illustrations.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Course equivalencies:  X - COMP 386/PSYC 383   
Outcomes:
Appreciation of the mathematical and computational techniques used to
understand the brain, specially differential equations to model neurons,
linear algebra used for neural networks, and probability theory capturing
brain performance
PSYC 384   Computational Modeling of the Brain   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 383/COMP 386 or instructor permission This course
uses a mix of lectures and computer labs to introduce computational
models of the neural processing in the brain   
These models capture single neurons and synapses, biological neural
networks, and high-level computational theory. Each class will cover the
models with lectures and computer labs, the latter using MATLAB and
Simulink.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Course equivalencies:  X - COMP 389/PSYC 384   
Outcomes:
Appreciation that brain function cannot be understood without proper
mathematical and computational frameworks, and ability to apply these
frameworks adeptly in the various domains of neuroscience from neurons
to cognition
PSYC 385   Practicum in Peace Activism   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students will learn how to recognize and navigate the psychological
pitfalls that accompany work as a peace activist. Topics include building
programs, recruiting volunteers, managing media messages, avoiding
burnout, handling conflict within organizations, and securing funding for
peace activities. Psychological constructs and theories such as group
dynamics, perceived control, learned helplessness, attitude change, and
altruism will be used to increase understanding of processes related to
peace activism.
Course equivalencies:  PSYC385/PAX385   
PSYC 386   Psychology Seminar: Selected Topics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101   
An upper-level, intensive seminar on selected aspects of psychology.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of major theories, research
methodologies, and empirical knowledge in the selected topicPSYC 387   Seminar in Behavorial and Cognitive Neurosciences   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  NEUR 101 (formerly PSYC/BIOL 202); PSYC 382/BIOL 284,
limited to NRCB-BS seniors   
Lecture/discussions will focus on issues central to behavioral
neuroscience, emphasizing human and animal mental processes and
neural information processing mechanisms. Students will read primary
research papers and practice analytical skills in class discussion and
presentations. Presentations and exams will promote critical thinking
and a general understanding of current issues in behavioral and cognitive
neurosciences.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Outcomes:
Students will become familiar with principles of cognitive and behavioral
approaches to the study of the neural bases of behavior; Students will
also learn how to critically read primary research papers and present
these papers to the class
PSYC 388   Laboratory in Neuroscience I   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  NEUR 101, BIOL 251; and students must be either
a Molecular/Cellular Neuroscience Major, a Cognitive/Behavioral
Neuroscience major, or a Neuroscience Minor   
Students will be trained in various anatomical, physiological, behavioral,
and neurobiological modeling techniques used to study the nervous
system and the brain in the laboratory. This course is cross-listed as
NEUR 301 & PSYC 388.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Course equivalencies:  X-NEUR301/PSYC388/BIOL373   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of several research designs and
methodologies of use in neuroscience research and will gain experience
with basic neuroscience laboratory techniques
PSYC 390   Internship in Psychology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 304 and approval via an internship application due on
the 5th Friday of the previous semester   
Capstone service-learning experience for psychology majors, involving
application and development of psychological knowledge and skills
through an internship (100 hours) in a human service organization or
applied research setting, combined with regular class meetings, reading
and writing assignments. Students arrange placements and complete a
project on site. Application details may be found here: https://luc.edu/
psychology/undergraduate/internshipinpsychology. Practical, pre-
professional job skills, critical analysis and connection between theory
and practice, on topics of: human service agency operation; effective
working relationships; professional communication; cultural competence;
values and ethics.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
PSYC 397   Independent Research   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 306 and approval of internship coordinator   
Limited to psychology majors with senior standing. Capstone opportunity
to conduct research under the guidance of a psychology faculty member.
Only one of PSYC 397 and 399 may count toward the psychology major.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will gain experience in all aspects of psychological research,
including literature review, formulating hypotheses, designing
and conducting research, analyzing data and interpreting results,
communicating the results of research in written reports

--- Page 200 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 231
PSYC 399   Special Studies in Psychology   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  permission of instructor and department   
Opportunity for individual reading or research in a specialized area not
otherwise covered by the Department's course offerings. Only one of
PSYC 397 and 399 may count toward the psychology major.
Outcomes:
Students will gain experience (eg, integrating research results from
various sources, conducting research) working directly with a faculty
member on a current topic in psychology
Psychology of Crime & Justice (PSCJ)
PSCJ 399   Independent Study   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides students with the opportunity to work under the
direction of a faculty member on a particular area of interest that is not
part of the Psychology of Crime and Justice minor's usual curriculum.
Program permission required.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Psychology of Crime and Justice   
Outcomes:
Gain supervised research experience in a speciﬁc area of psychology and
law
Rome Studies (ROST)
ROST 199   Topics in Rome Studies: Introductory   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Variable topics in Rome Studies at the elementary level.
ROST 299   Topics in Rome Studies: Intermediate   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Variable topics in Rome Studies at the intermediate level.
ROST 370   International Internship - Rome Focus   (3-6 Credit Hours)   
Enrollment is limited to Rome Center Students Only. This course
offers students at the John Felice Rome Center an opportunity to gain
valuable professional experience as an intern in Italian and international
organizations and companies, essentially making the city of Rome their
classroom.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Italian American Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will obtain in-depth knowledge and practical experience in an
international professional work setting relevant to the student's future
career
ROST 382   Human Rights: View from Rome   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Enrollment is restricted to Rome Center Students Only   
The course aims to discuss with the students the socio-juridical
developments of human rights and their applications in the
Mediterranean area. The course provides basic tools for understanding
the history and principles underlying human rights. It is organized in two
parts to discuss human rights related to two fundamental issues of the
contemporary age: migration and religious freedom.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, Global Studies, Italian American
Studies, Italian Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
On completion of the course students should be able to: - demonstrate
knowledge of history and principles underlying human rights; - assess
application of human rights related to migration and religious freedom;
- identify current challenges regarding the enjoyment of human rights in
the Mediterranean area; - demonstrate self-reflection, anchored in the
service-learning experienceRussian (RUSS)
RUSS 101   Russian I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to the basic elements of the Russian
language and to Russian culture.
Outcomes:
Students will develop communicative skills and a fundamental
knowledge of the Russian people, language and culture
RUSS 102   Russian II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  RUSS 101   
This course continues the study of the Russian language and cul ture.
Outcomes:
Students will continue developing communicative skills and further their
knowledge of the Russian people, language and culture
RUSS 103   Russian III   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  RUSS 102   
This course is an intensive review of speaking, listening, reading, and
writing Russian.
Outcomes:
Students will develop audio-lingual facility in communication and the
ability to read simple texts in Russian
RUSS 104   Russian IV   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  RUSS 103   
This course continues the intensive review of speaking, listening, reading,
and writing Russian.
Outcomes:
Students will develop audio-lingual facility in communication and the
ability to read short literary and cultural texts in Russian
RUSS 290   Russia and Russians in the World   (3 Credit Hours)   
RUSS 290 is a service learning course focusing on leadership through
service learning and the study of the Russian language and history.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
1) Students will develop Russian language skills (speaking, listening,
reading, writing) and expand their knowledge of Russian history and
culture; 2) Student will develop civic engagement leadership skills
through practical service work and reflection
Sociolegal Studies (SLGL)
SLGL 200   Introduction to Sociolegal Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course will introduce students to several complementary
perspectives from the interdisciplinary "Law and Society" movement: the
sociology of law; the psychology of justice; the anthropology of disputing;
the economics of rulemaking; and the institutional politics of courts and
legislatures.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Sociolegal Studies   
Outcomes:
Compare & critique different social science theories of law; understand
the role of law in society and the intersection of law, politics, economics,
and culture
SLGL 399   Independent Study   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides students with the opportunity to work under the
direction of a faculty member on a particular area of interest that is
not part of the Sociolegal Studies minor's usual curriculum. Program
permission required. Students will gain an understanding of a speciﬁc
area of sociolegal studies through the close reading of selected texts or
through directed research.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Sociolegal Studies   

--- Page 201 ---
232  College of Arts and Sciences
Sociology (SOCL)
SOCL 100   Urban Field Studies: Changing Chicago   (3 Credit Hours)   
Fieldwork-based course exploring how communities are shaped by social,
economic, and political forces. Particular emphasis is placed on how
grass-roots activism and community-based organizations affect social
change. Taught in cooperation with Loyola's Center for Urban Research
and Learning (CURL), students visit with community leaders, politicians,
advocates religious leaders and others working for positive change in the
city and suburbs.
SOCL 101   Society in a Global Age   (3 Credit Hours)   
This is a foundational course in the social sciences which expl ores
the effect of globalization on everyday life in the United States and
elsewhere, using the basic perspectives and methodologies of sociology.
Knowledge Area:  Foundational Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora   
SOCL 121   Social Problems   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100, PLSC 102, PSYC 100, SOCL 101, WSGS 101, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course is an opportunity to examine major issues facing society. In
addition to analyzing the roots of social problems, the course addresses
social policy concerns and explores solutions.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services, Peace, Justice, and Conflict
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  SOCL121/PAX 121   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to critically examine the impact of a soc ial problem
and its possible solutions, to integrate knowledge gleaned from a variety
of disciplines, to ﬁnd and utilize relevant data and research in deﬁning
issues and solutions, and to view social problems from macro and micro
perspectives as a means of applying workable solutions for the issues
facing society
SOCL 122   Race and Ethnic Relations   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100, PLSC 102, PSYC 100, SOCL 101, WSGS 101, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course examines the development of cultural, society, and self-
understanding by exploring the social construction of race in the United
States. The course explores how social constructions of race affect
interpersonal relations, laws, policies, and practices in various racial and
ethnic communities.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Asian
Studies, Human Services, Italian American Studies, Peace, Justice, and
Conflict Studies, Race and Ethnicity   
Course equivalencies:  X-SOCL122/ASIA122/BWS 122/PAX   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the conditions
which have worsened racial tensions as well as how social movements
have been successful at eradicating racially oppressive laws and working
towards a just societySOCL 123   Mass Media and Popular Culture   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the connections between the media of mass
communication and multiple forms of popular art and culture. Topics
considered include the social, political and cultural organization of mass
communication and its impact on values, expectations, and life styles of
contemporary society.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies, Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  SOCL123/WSGS123/IFMS123   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the social
relationships between mass media and the general population
SOCL 125   Chicago: Urban Metropolis   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100, PLSC 102, PSYC 100, SOCL 101, WSGS 101, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course explores the development of Chicago metropolitan region
from the 1830's to the present day. Students will explore the urban area
not only through texts, but also through ﬁeldwork.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Urban
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  SOCL125/URB125   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the geogr aphy,
history and people of the Chicago metropolitan region
SOCL 127   Social Analysis and Social Action   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course helps students who are volunteering at local congregations
and agencies better understand the communities and issues they will
encounter in Chicago. It emphasizes the analysis of " social solutions" to
social problems as well as personal reflection and action.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  X-SOCL127/PAX127   
Outcomes:
Analyzing and acting on social issues
SOCL 145   Religion & Society   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100, PLSC 102, PSYC 100, SOCL 101, WSGS 101, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course examines how religion and society interact.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, Interreligious and Interfaith
Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of how individual
behavior, organizations, and society as a whole are affected by religious
ideas and institutions, and how religion is itself changed by its encounter
with changing social circumstances
SOCL 171   Sociology of Sex and Gender   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100, PLSC 102, PSYC 100, SOCL 101, WSGS 101, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course explores the social organization of sex and gender.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services, Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-SOCL271/WOST271/WSGS271   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to situate their pre-conceived experiences of the
naturalness of gender in a particular historical and cultural context

--- Page 202 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 233
SOCL 205   Sociological Thought   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines classical and contemporary sociological theories
and uses them as frameworks for understanding modern society. Such
social theories attempt to explain and understand the world, as well as
inspire further research and theory.
Interdisciplinary Option:  German Studies   
Outcomes:
The class provides students with theoretical foundations for
understanding social organizations as well as the social processes that
transform societies
SOCL 206   Principles of Social Research   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to the basic research methodologies
of sociology. A variety of methods used in sociological analysis and
data generation will be considered. Students learn how to select and
use methodologies appropriate for various research projects. They will
be able to critically evaluate existing research and select appropriate
techniques to undertake original research.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services, Urban Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will learn how social science research is conducted
SOCL 210   Gender and Work   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course looks at the nature of work through the lens of gender. It
considers how male and female labor force participation has changed
over time. It examines the ways working families are transformed when
women combine employment with domestic responsibilities and child
care, or when men's jobs no longer provide a family wage.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-SOCL210/WOST210/WSGS210   
Outcomes:
Students learn how gender has been and remains a fundamental
organizational principle in the workplace and the labor force
SOCL 212   Patterns of Criminal Activity   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students are taught to examine the relevance of criminological theories
to patterns of criminal activity, to efforts to control criminals, and to
prevent crime.
Outcomes:
Students learn how to analyze neighborhoods to identify environments of
increased crime risk and relative safety
SOCL 215   Law & Society   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course trains students to examine the law as a sociological concept
and to look at the relationship between the legal system and society. A
critical concern is whether changes in the legal system reflect societal
change or do changes in the legal system stimulate change in so ciety.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Sociolegal Studies   
Outcomes:
Students learn to recognize the close linkage between the law and social
structure; They also gain experience examining legal texts and decisions
SOCL 216   The Sociology of Violence   (3 Credit Hours)   
The threat of violence is a signiﬁcant concern for individuals in many
societies. In this course, violence will be studied as a social phenomenon.
Topics of particular concern include: family violence, gang violence and
terrorism.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies, Urban
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-SOCL216/PAX 291   
Outcomes:
Students learn to examine the causes of violence from a sociological
perspective: They also learn methods to reduce violence and the harm it
causesSOCL 220   Topics in the Life Cycle   (3 Credit Hours)   
An examination of the stages of the life cycle (childhood, young
adulthood, parenthood, later adulthood, etc) and how such stages are
deﬁned and interpreted by social and institutional forces.
Outcomes:
Students will gain understanding of the role that individual's societies
and institutions play in the deﬁnition of the life cycle and the implications
it has for society
SOCL 221   Sociology and Culture of the Life Course   (3 Credit Hours)   
Life course studies emerged in response to the sociological need to
understand how social change intersects with the aging process. Social
and cultural contexts, individual experience and agency, and historical
time and place are elements in the construction of a life and the social
relationships that make it up.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics, Human Services   
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH221/SOCL221   
Outcomes:
Students learn sociological concepts and theories relevant to the life
course and how they help us understand local and global changes; Learn
about programs and policies pertinent to an aging society
SOCL 222   Poverty & Welfare in America   (3 Credit Hours)   
In this course, students learn to think critically about the ch aracter,
causes and responses to poverty in American society, using both
historical and contemporary evidence.
Outcomes:
Students will understand the strengths and limitations of American
welfare policy in relation to poverty
SOCL 225   Sociology of Health Care   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the sociology of health care with particular
attention to: social and psychological factors; health care professionals;
inter-personal relations in health care; the organization and use of health
services; and the relationship between aging and health.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Course equivalencies:  X-SOCL225/BIET225   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the role that social forces play in the health and
wellness of individuals, the community and society
SOCL 226   Science, Technology, & Society   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course serves as a broad introduction to the social study and
analysis of science and technology in society. It examines how scientiﬁc
knowledge and technologies are created and constructed and how they
influence and are influenced by society.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand how scientiﬁc knowledge and
technologies are developed in particular historical and cultural contexts
and analyze their impact on our daily lives
SOCL 228   Sociology of the African-American Experience   (3 Credit
Hours)   
A sociological inquiry into the historical and contemporary experience
of African-Americans. Social movements and social change, urban and
institutional processes, social values and collective behavior, and African-
Americans and public policy are among the topics explored.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Race
and Ethnicity   
Course equivalencies:  X-SOCL228/BWS 228   
Outcomes:
Students will gain a deeper understanding of the experiences that
African-Americans have in American society and of the social, political
and institutional forces that have contributed to the historical and
contemporary experience of African-Americans

--- Page 203 ---
234  College of Arts and Sciences
SOCL 230   Self & Society   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the relationships between the self as a social
product and the larger society in which that self is socialized, develops
and expresses itself. Various theories of selfhood are explored.
Outcomes:
Students will come to appreciate how selfhood, their own and others, is
a product of historical factors as well as social contexts such as class,
gender, race and ethnicity
SOCL 231   Childhood and Society   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course looks at the social construction of childhood, the impact of
parents, the media, peer groups, and educational institutions as well as
changing social attitudes about the place of children in society.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services   
Outcomes:
Students will gain a better understanding of the historical and social
manner in which childhood is constructed and the impacts of various
social institutions, family, religion, media, education on childhood
development
SOCL 234   City, Suburbs & Beyond   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course studies the historical emergence of cities, focusing on
the ecological, demographic, and organizational processes involved
in the continuing growth and change of metropolitan areas and in the
relationship of a metropolitan area to the surrounding region.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services, Race and Ethnicity, Urban
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-SOCL234/URB234   
Outcomes:
Students will understand fundamental facts and theories about the
character and development of cities and urban regions
SOCL 235   Communities in a Global Age   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines communities sociologically, both as a concept and
as they exist in society. The course covers urban, racial/ethnic, religious,
territorial, utopian, ideological and web-based communities, and their
strengths and limitations in a rapidly changing global world.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Urban Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will identify, describe and analyze communities using
sociological concepts and be able to assess the mechanisms by
which old and new communities are being formed as well as their
consequences for social life
SOCL 236   Population Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces the study of demography by examining trends of
fertility, work, marriage, migration and mortality.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics, Human Services   
Course equivalencies:  SOCL236 / SOCL285   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of how the size, composition and
dynamics of a population influence the social, economic and political
structure of individual nations and the world
SOCL 237   Professions and Society   (3 Credit Hours)   
Work involving high levels of expertise--medical, legal, technical, and
much else- is a critical component of modern society. This course
examines how professional work is structured, the way professionals are
trained and organized, the privileges and responsibilities of professional
work, and the role of conflicts over expertise in modern society.
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of how work based on knowledge
and expertise is organized and on the social and economic factors that
contribute to the position of professionals in societySOCL 239   Understanding Bias and Inclusivity   (3 Credit Hours)   
Using an intersectional lens, students learn about how privileg e, power,
and oppression shape ourselves, perceptions of others, and our social
world. They consider how ourselves and others are shaped by and
operate within the larger social system. Students explore their identities,
values, and biases. Students engage in self-reflection to increase self-
awareness.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X - PSYC 239/ SOCL 239   
Outcomes:
Identify feelings about course topics; Demonstrate self-awareness
of identities and values, including the value of difference; Engage in
intergroup dialogue; Articulate how personal power can be used to create
change
SOCL 240   Families   (3 Credit Hours)   
Contemporary family structures encompass a variety of living
arrangements and social relationships. This course considers differences
and similarities among the various family types and explores the social,
cultural and economic forces structuring family life.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services, Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-SOCL240/WOST242/WSGS242   
Outcomes:
Students will develop an expanded understanding of the varieties of
family arrangements and the connections between family life and the
wider social, political economic environment
SOCL 245   Sociology of Education   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a rigorous introduction into the scholarly traditions and
contemporary research developments in the sociology of education.
Topics include: educational stratiﬁcation and inequality, how educational
institutions function and with what policy implications, and social
psychology/human development.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Race and Ethnicity   
Outcomes:
Identify areas of research interest; trace connections to studies in the
ﬁeld; analyze and evaluate policy effectiveness; evaluate the capacity and
potential for institutions to support efforts at social justice
SOCL 247   Sociology of Culture   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the social production, consumption, and use of
culture and cultural objects, especially in the ﬁelds of literature, art,
music, mass media and religion.
Outcomes:
Students will learn sociological methods of analyzing culture and cultural
objects, and will understand the social organization of cultural production
and consumption

--- Page 204 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 235
SOCL 250   Inequality in Society   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100, PLSC 102, PSYC 100, SOCL 101, WSGS 101, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course examines the manner in which contemporary society is
divided by race, ethnicity, class, sexuality and gender, and the impact
of social institutions on these divisions. An emphasis will be placed on
income/wealth differences, status differences, class conflict and social
conflict over time.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Asian
Studies, Human Services, Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies, Race and
Ethnicity, Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  ASIA/AFR/SOCL/WSGS 250   
Outcomes:
Students will acquire a better understanding of social inequality and what
can be done to make society more just
SOCL 251   Peoples of China: Their Cultures and Customs   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This class introduces China's cultural diversity and unity as a whole. It
provides a general overview of cultural mappings in China, and a detailed
study of signiﬁcant ethnic minorities.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Chinese Language & Culture, Global
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  SOCL251/ASIA252/INTS251   
Outcomes:
Students will gain the ability to perceive cultural phenomena in a
comparative framework and understand cultural differences more deeply
SOCL 252   Global Inequalities   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines inequality on a global scale, focusing on the impact
of globalization processes on race, class and gender inequalities here and
abroad.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Human Services, Race and
Ethnicity   
Outcomes:
Students will analyze how race, class and gender inequalities influence
each other across national boundaries, and will recognize global causes
and consequences of inequalitySOCL 254   Sociology of Migration   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is designed to provide a sociological understanding
concerning various impacts of immigration in the United States.
International migration patterns have signiﬁcantly affected the
development of U.S. society since its inception. In recent decades, the
United States experienced a record number of new immigrants from a
variety of countries. In this course, we examine fundamental concepts
for studying migration, and theories that explain international migration.
We also discuss how immigrants have redeﬁned - and will keep redeﬁning
- local and foreign demographic dynamics in receiving and sending
societies, transnational networks, and a more complex ethno-racial
diversity with meaningful international roots., remedial policies, activism,
educational objectives).
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Asian
Studies, Global Studies, Latin American Studies, Race and Ethni city,
Women & Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
Be familiar with key theories, concepts, and analyses that explain
migration issues in the United States; Understand the relevance of
historical and contemporary associations among cultural, economic,
political, and social forces, as well as their impact on immigration;
Understand the relevance of sociological knowledge on migration issues
for dealing with current social problems at different levels (e.g
SOCL 255   Deviance and Social Control   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a socio-historical look at deﬁnitions of deviant behavior
and individuals, an examination of techniques of social control, and an
analysis of speciﬁc forms of deviant behavior such as crime and mental
illness.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services   
Outcomes:
Students learn to analyze how history, science, and philosophy combine
to deﬁne the nature of deviant behavior and to identify deviant individuals
SOCL 258   Confronting Homelessness: Local to Global   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  SOCL 101 or PSYC 100 or PLS 102 or ANTH 100   
Who are homeless people in the United States and beyond? Why are they
homeless? What is being done to address the issues of homelessness?
This course addresses these questions from a variety of disciplinary
perspectives. As an "engaged learning" course, students will also learn
by assisting at various agencies. The student will be able to discuss
framings of the causes of homelessness and evaluate different policy
approaches for addressing it while contributing work to a local agency.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Urban Studies   
SOCL 260   Power in Society   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on sociological theories and case studies of
power, authority, and social change. It explores the ways in which power
relations perpetuate social inequality and the ways in which social
conflicts and power struggles transforms society.
Outcomes:
Students learn about the structures of power in economic systems,
political systems, and organizations; the cultural and ideological
underpinnings of power relationships; and political struggles for social
change

--- Page 205 ---
236  College of Arts and Sciences
SOCL 261   Social Movements & Social Change   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the dynamics of collective behavior and
movements promoting social change.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies, Sociolegal
Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of competing explanations
of social movements and social change, and will be able to test various
theories by analyzing historical movements for change
SOCL 262   Movements for Social Justice: 60s & Beyond   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course focuses on movements for social justice and human rights
from the 1960s to the present.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services, Women & Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
Students gain an understanding of how and why such movements
emerged and developed the effectiveness of various strategies, and the
impact of movements on American society
SOCL 263   Political and Social Movements in China   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines historical and contemporary movements pursuing
political, economic and social reforms in China. It studies both state-
sponsored and voluntary movements.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  SOCL263/INTS263   
Outcomes:
Students will gain a deeper understanding of China's ongoing
transformation, and will learn how to develop their own scholarly analysis
of such social change
SOCL 265   Globalization & Society   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the nature of contemporary globalization and
considers how it influences communities, nations and the world.
The course examines the positive and negative consequences of
globalization and the global justice movements that have emerged
seeking more equality, tolerance and environmental stewardship.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Urban Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students learn how economic, political and cultural aspect of
globalization impact society in an increasingly interconnected world
SOCL 266   Development and Social Change in Modern China   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course examines change and development in modern China from the
late Qing period to the present, focusing on the movement from a planned
economy to a market-based economy.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies, Women & Gender
Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain knowledge of China's economic development path,
and will apply gender and/or class-based analysis to patterns of social
changeSOCL 267   Italy Today   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  One Tier I Foundational Social and Cultural Knowledge Core
course: SOCL 101, ANTH 100, PLSC 102, or PSYC 100   
Italy Today traces the nation's extraordinary transformation from the
ashes of World War II to the leading economic and cultural power it is
today and analyses a broad range of issues in contemporary Italy, such
as Catholicism, gender, family, emigration and immigration, regional
identities, media and material culture.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Italian American Studies, Italian
Studies   
Outcomes:
Understand the transformation of Italy since WWII Think critically about
issues such as stereotypes, regional identities, and diversity
SOCL 270   Sociology of Science   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines science as a distinctive form of knowledge and
social organization.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand science as a human, social enterprise
and its relationship to society
SOCL 272   Environmental Sociology   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the distinctively social aspect of the relationship of
people to their environments, both built and natural.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics, Human Services, Peace, Justice, and
Conflict Studies, Urban Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-SOCL272/ESP272PAX 272BIET272   
Outcomes:
Students will recognize the role that both social and physical factors
play in the environmental problems facing the world; Students will also
develop critical thinking skills needed to evaluate statements and policy
proposal to improve environmental quality
SOCL 275   The Sociology of Consumption   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the profound ways society and individuals have
been transformed by the abundance of consumer goods and mass media
that encourage buying these good.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Urban Studies   
Outcomes:
Student will gain a deeper understanding of the nature and origins of
contemporary consumer society and the ways in which consumerism
impacts society and individuals
SOCL 276   The Sociology and Politics of Food   (3 Credit Hours)   
Explores the impact of globalized economic, political, and social
relationships through the prism of food. Considers the cultural and
ideological dimensions of food, the structure of food production and
consumption, and responses to the global food system.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Urban Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain awareness of themselves as consumers of food and
food products
SOCL 278   Global Health   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course addresses the underlying social, economic, political, and
cultural mechanisms driving some of the leading issues in global
health today; including the rise of non-communicable diseases in low
and middle income countries, neglected infectious diseases, human
resources for health, and access to global pharmaceuticals.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Outcomes:
Students will become familiar with evaluating the global health policy
process, and debating possible routes to achieving health equity

--- Page 206 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 237
SOCL 280   Topics in Contemporary Sociology   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course examines selected contemporary sociological issues.
Topics addressed represent specialized or newly developing areas of
sociological inquiry. Topics will vary from semester to semester.
Outcomes:
Students gain insights into contemporary social issues and learn how to
use the concepts, theory and methods of sociology to examine them
SOCL 281   Current Issues in Medical Education   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore Standing or Above; Instructor Permission   
This class is an opportunity to examine selected reform and innovation
movements facing health professional education and training.
Sophomore standing or above is required.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate critical analysis of selected reforms and
innovations in health professional education and training
SOCL 301   Statistics for Social Research   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  SOCL 206   
The course is a comprehensive introduction to statistical analysis in
social research. Topics include: univariate, bivariate, and multivariate
analysis, computer statistical applications and interpretation of results.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of statistical thinking and
data analysis techniques and be able to use them to evaluate existing
research and conduct original research
SOCL 302   Qualitative Research   (3 Credit Hours)   
An introduction to the major qualitative methods of social inquiry.
Participant observation, interviewing, historical analysis, and content
analysis, as well as ethical issues of ﬁeld research are studied.
Outcomes:
Students will gain understanding of important methods of data collection
and analysis common in social science research; Students will gain
experience using these techniques to conduct research and evaluate the
research of others
SOCL 304   Global Civil Society and Social Movements   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on global civil society groups (both advocacy groups
or apolitical) and on social movements that seek to ﬁght injustices.
We discuss a variety of examples of civil society projects ranging
from monitoring government corruption and promoting micro-credit to
organizing transnational protest campaigns.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-GLST 304/SOCL 304   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate a comprehension of the dynamics of global
civil society and social movements, both for cases discussed in class and
to material from outside class
SOCL 306   International Development   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides an interdisciplinary overview of the international
development system and issues related to development in those
countries variously referred to as third world, developing, underdeveloped,
or peripheral countries.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-GLST 306/SOCL 306   
Outcomes:
Students will develop a fundamental knowledge of the various factors
that are considered to help or hinder developmentSOCL 311   Social Science Research Practicum: Cook County Community
Survey   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  SOCL 301 or equivalent   
Familiarity with R, Stata, SAS, or SPSS necessary. Students will analyze
this year's iteration of the annual Cook County Community Survey. They
will draw on the data to prepare written, public-facing reports, public
presentations, and scholarly research.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  PLSC 311/SOCL 311   
Outcomes:
Describe the strengths and limitations of modern polling techniques; Use
statistical software to analyze survey data; Communicate ﬁndings from
surveys to a broad audience orally and in written form
SOCL 334   Latinas/os/xs in Space   (3 Credit Hours)   
Latinas/os/xs are the largest minoritized population in the United
States with a population of more than 60 million. As the fasting growing
demographic in the U.S., how is this complex and variegated population
(re)conceptualizing, (re)framing, (re)making, and (de)constructing spatial
boundaries? Further, how are Latinas/os/xs both transforming and
challenging U.S. physical and conceptual landscapes? Drawing from
spatial, decolonial, and feminist of color theories, we will engage these
questions through a thematic exploration of the ways that Latinas/os/
xs have influenced, shaped, and (re)used space as a struggle to maintain
dignity and engage in place-making. We will connect these ideas to
geography, citizenship, civil rights, social justice, and cultural practices.
This is a discussion and project-based course.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Latin American Studies, Race and Ethnicity,
Women & Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
Identify and describe the impact Latinas/os/xs have on US culture,
history, and geography; Critically analyze political, social, and cultural
treatment of Latinas/os/xs in the US; Critically analyze US culture using
spatial and decolonial theories; Understand the intersection(s) of space,
race, and opportunity within the US; Link social issues and responses to
creative outlets/endeavors; Work in small teams; Gain oral presentation
skills
SOCL 335   Urban Semester Seminar   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior or senior standing   
Students explore how cities work through texts, ﬁeld trips, and guest
speakers, and help ﬁnd solutions to pressing urban issues. They fulﬁll
civic engagement core value requirement.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Urban Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  X-SOCL335/PLSC335   
Outcomes:
Students will understand and address inequities in urban communities,
and identify avenues of leadership and civic engagement in
contemporary cities
SOCL 365   Social Theory & Social Research   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  SOCL 205, 206, 301, and senior standing, or permission of
instructor or chair   
In this capstone course, each student designs and conducts an empirical
research project resulting in a senior research paper.
Outcomes:
Student demonstrate mastery of sociological theory and methods by
writing a research paper bringing a full complement of sociological skills
to bear on an issue of substantial theoretical and/or practical importance

--- Page 207 ---
238  College of Arts and Sciences
SOCL 370   Undergrad Seminar-Special Topics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Using a seminar format, the course undertakes an in-depth study of
selected contemporary sociological issues in depth. Topics addressed
represent specialized or newly emerging areas of sociological inquiry and
will vary from semester to semester.
Outcomes:
Students have opportunity to examine contemporary social issues in
a seminar environment and learn how to use the concepts, theory and
methods of sociology to examine them
SOCL 372   Directed Readings   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Permission of instructor or chair   
Independent study of a selected body of sociological literature on a topic
deﬁned by the student in collaboration with a faculty advisor.
Outcomes:
Student gains in-depth knowledge of a selected sub-ﬁeld of sociology
SOCL 380   Internship   (3-6 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Permission of instructor or chair   
Supervised ﬁeld experience for students working in a selected community
organization, government agency, social agency, or business.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students have opportunity to apply the skills and analysis of sociology to
a concrete situation
SOCL 380I   Internship: Interreligious & Interfaith Studies Focus   (3 Credit
Hours)   
An internship in an interreligious or multireligious setting. The student
will also write an analysis of the ways diverse religious traditions interact
in practical settings. Restricted to IRIF minors.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Interreligious and Interfaith Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-IRIF 380/SOCL 380I   
Outcomes:
This capstone experience is intended to give students an opportunity
to experience and reflect on developing interreligious cooperation in the
contemporary world
SOCL 397   Independent Study Projects   (3 Credit Hours)   
Independent study of a topic delineated by the student in collaboration
with an individual faculty member.
Outcomes:
Student gains experience and expertise in deﬁning and conducting
independent scholarly work
SOCL 398   Independent Study Projects   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
Independent research done in collaboration with a faculty member on a
sociological topic deﬁned by the student in consultation with a faculty
member.
Outcomes:
Student gains experience and expertise conducting independent research
SOCL 399   Independent Study Projects   (3 Credit Hours)   
Advanced independent research in collaboration with a faculty member
on a sociological topic relevant to the student. Limited to senior
Sociology majors.
Outcomes:
Student gains experience and expertise conducting independent researchSpanish (SPAN)
SPAN 101   Spanish I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to the basic elements of Spanish language
and culture. It is designed for students with no previous experience in
Spanish.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand simple messages and short
narratives, respond to basic inquiries about themselves and others,
formulate basic questions, as well as understand basic written texts
SPAN 102   Spanish II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  SPAN 101   
This course builds on SPAN 101, and introduces students to new topics
and grammatical structures.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Latin American Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to produce sounds in Spanish more accurately,
express appropriate reactions to ordinary situations, understand basic
oral commands, read more complex texts, and write sentences in
cohesive paragraphs
SPAN 103   Spanish III   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  SPAN 102   
This course is the ﬁrst semester of second-year Spanish.
Outcomes:
Students will increase their knowledge of Spanish grammar and
vocabulary, and their Spanish communication skills
SPAN 104   Spanish IV   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  SPAN 103   
This course is the second semester of second-year Spanish.
Outcomes:
Students will continue to perfect their knowledge of Spanish grammar
and vocabulary, with greater stress on reading and speaking
SPAN 190   Spanish for Medical Professionals I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course develops intermediate-level skills in comprehension and
conversation for the health professions. It is for students who have
completed at least Spanish 104 who have intermediate-level Spanish
language skills.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and use appropriate Spanish
expressions in a variety of situations involving use of Medical Spanish;
Students will understand essential information about the dialects
and cultural characteristics of major Spanish speaking populations in
Chicago
SPAN 195   Spanish for Medical Interpretation   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is part of an intermediate advanced sequence focusing on
(mainly) advanced oral intercultural skills in Spanish language oriented
to preparing students for the interaction with Spanish speaking patients
with none or little English skills. Students will develop a strong cultural
sensitivity to improve future patient-doctor communications, while
reflecting on the role of medical interpreters in successful medical
outcomes. An intensive speaking, translating and interpreting training will
help to strengthen students' knowledge of language and their conﬁdence
in its use.

--- Page 208 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 239
SPAN 250   Composition & Conversation I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  SPAN 104   
This course is the ﬁrst in an intermediate-level sequence designed to
develop greater fluency in speech and writing through diverse readings
and activities and is taught in Spanish.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to speak, read, write, and comprehend readings in
Spanish at the intermediate level
SPAN 251   Composition & Conversation II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  SPAN 250   
Advanced conversation and composition course designed to develop
greater fluency in speech and writing through diverse readings and
activities. Taught in Spanish and required for Spanish majors.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to speak, read, write, and comprehend readings in
Spanish at the advanced, third-year college level
SPAN 252   Composition & Conversation: Native Speakers   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  fluency in Spanish   
This course is designed for Spanish-speaking students, and is an
Intensive study of grammar and composition.
Outcomes:
Students will develop greater fluency in written Spanish
SPAN 253   Advanced Composition & Conversation: Native Speakers   (3
Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  SPAN 252 or equivalent   
This course is a continuation of SPAN 252.
Outcomes:
Students will develop greater fluency in written Spanish
SPAN 270   Introduction to Critical Analysis in Spanish   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course reviews and sharpens the essential skills and techniques
necessary to critically read, interpret, and write and speak about all
genres of Hispanic literature (narrative, poetry, drama, and essay) in
Spanish. In so doing, students reﬁne their linguistic skills, and gain
awareness of the complexities of the Spanish-speaking world.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain the necessary skills for critically reading, writing and
discussing all genres of Hispanic literature
SPAN 271   Introduction to Iberian Literature and Culture   (3 Credit
Hours)   
An introduction to Iberian literature, ﬁlm, and cultural production,
designed to provide students with an understanding of Iberian culture,
history, and society, while also honing their linguistic and analytical skills.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain a grounding in Iberian literary and cultural production,
an understanding of various literary and cultural forms, and an awareness
of their context of production
SPAN 272   Introduction to Spanish American Literature and Culture   (3
Credit Hours)   
An introduction to Spanish-speaking Latin American literature, ﬁlm, and
other forms of cultural production, designed to provide students with an
understanding of the region's variety and complexity while also honing
their linguistic and analytical skills.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain a grounding in Spanish-speaking Latin American
literary and cultural production, an understanding of various literary and
cultural forms, and an awareness of their context of productionSPAN 300   Tutorial for Credit   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  permission of chairperson   
Course material will be agreed upon by the student and instructor.
Outcomes:
Students will explore an aspect of Spanish language, culture and
civilization, or literature not present in the curriculum or not offered that
semester
SPAN 302   Business Spanish   (3 Credit Hours)   
Introduction to the fundamentals of the Spanish language and Hispanic
culture as it relates to business practices.
Outcomes:
Students will learn the language of commerce in Spanish
SPAN 305   Advanced Spanish Grammar   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  SPAN 251 and permission of chairperson   
This course is an overview of the most important aspects of Spanish
grammar: sentence components, verbal systems, pronominal system,
sentence structure, and paragraph structure.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze words, sentences, both simple and
compound, and to properly use pertinent linguistic terminology
SPAN 308   Literary Criticism   (3 Credit Hours)   
Introduction to various theories and methods of literary criticism and
textual analysis. Conducted in English.
Course equivalencies:  X-FREN/GERM/ITAL/SPAN308   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate a comprehensive critical knowledge
of major currents and themes in international literary criticism and theory
SPAN 311   Generation of 1898   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Permission of chairperson   
This course studies the distinctive group of turn-of-the-century Spanish
writers known as the 'Generation of 1898': Unamuno, Baroja, Valle-Inclán,
Machado, etc.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to discern the similarities and differences among
the writers of this generation, as well as their relationship to modernism
SPAN 314   Survey of Medieval Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a survey of the more prominent works of the Spanish
Middle Ages - El Cantar de Mío Cid, El libro del buen amor, El conde
Lucanor, and La tragicomedia de Calisto y Melibea o La Celestina -
which reflect the religious, spiritual, and intellectual currents of Medieval
Spain. In the form of seminar discussions and independent study,
students will examine the aesthetic, social, and political trends of the
ninth through ﬁfteenth centuries, as well as the most important themes
writers developed in pre-modern Iberia: honor, authority, vice and virtue,
pilgrimage, devotion, and humor. These themes will be explored in
the major works (primary sources), which will be complemented by
secondary source readings and each student's independent research. The
writers and texts studied in this course will also be viewed in the context
of the greater artistic production in Spain and Medieval Europe.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Medieval Studies   

--- Page 209 ---
240  College of Arts and Sciences
SPAN 319   Romanticism   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  permission of chairperson   
Study of the principle philosophical and esthetic characteristics of
romanticism through readings in the major Spanish and/or Latin
American romantic authors.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to recognize the principle characteristics of
romanticism, its foreign influences, and its historical development in a
variety of genres, including drama, prose ﬁction, essay, and poetry
SPAN 321   20th Century Theatre   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  permission of chairperson   
An examination of 20th Century Theater in Spain covering such
dramatists as Valle-Inclán, J. Benavente, M. Mihura, García Lorca, Buero
Vallejo, and others.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of dramatic genres and the
contribution of Spanish playwrights to contemporary discussions on
political and aesthetic issues
SPAN 326   Theater of The Golden Age   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  permission of chairperson   
A study of major Renaissance and Baroque plays by Calderón, Lope
de Vega, Tirso de Molina, Mira de Amescua, Juan Ruiz de Alarcón, and
others.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will learn to recognize mythological and historical themes while
discussing the ethics of tragedy, the evolution of comic characters, and
social concerns in the era of absolutism
SPAN 330   Survey-Poetry Theory & Practice   (3 Credit Hours)   
The poetry of the 19th century in Spain and Latin America derives
from two literary, artistic and cultural movements: romanticism and
modernism.
SPAN 331   20th Century Poetry   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Permission of chairperson   
A study of the development of modern Spanish poetry from post-
modernism to the present with a special emphasis on the Hispanic poets
of the avant garde.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will able to recognize the major poetic trends, forms, themes,
and movements in 20th century Spanish verse
SPAN 336   Poetry of The Golden Age   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  permission of chairperson   
An exploration of the influence of the Italian Renaissance on the Spanish
tradition: Garsilaso de la Vega, Herrera, San Juan de la Cruz, Fray Luis de
León, Quevedo, Góngora and others.
Outcomes:
Students will learn to recognize classical themes and rhetorical
techniques, and to trace the development of such genres as epic, satire,
and the lyric
SPAN 339   19th Century Poetry   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  permission of chairperson   
This course is a survey of 19th-century literature, with emphasis on
Romanticism and Realism.
Outcomes:
Students will become acquainted with the rich literature of the nineteenth
century and will improve their critical and analytical skillsSPAN 340   Survey Prose-Fictional & Nonﬁction   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  permission of chairperson   
This course traces the development of Spanish prose from the Middle
Ages to the present day. All prose genres are included.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will come to appreciate and understand how peninsular prose
has developed
SPAN 341   20th Century Spanish Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  permission of chairperson   
Beginning with the Generation of 1898 and concluding with post-
modernism, this course studies the rich literature of modern Spain.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will better understand and appreciate the complexities of
modern Spanish literature, as well as improve their critical and analytical
skills
SPAN 346   Prose of The Golden Age   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  permission of chairperson   
An approach to the picaresque, the pastoral novel and the essay with
their concern with power and submission in everyday life. A study of the
growing role of individual experience in ﬁctional modes.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will recognize the confluence of different prose styles, and the
creation of individual voices in ﬁction; They will also become familiar with
emerging concerns with religious and scientiﬁc issues during the period
SPAN 347   Cervantes Don Quijote   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  permission of chairperson   
This course reads Cervantes' masterpiece with an emphasis on critical
approaches, and on the book's impact on the invention of the modern
novel.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will learn about Cervantes's contribution to the development of
modern ﬁction; They will become familiar with the novel's connection to
other literary genres, and the role of metaﬁction and textuality
SPAN 349   Realism and Naturalism   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  permission of chairperson   
This course is primarily a study of the novel of Realism and Naturalism,
as well as of the short story.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand the goals of the great Realists and
Naturalists and see their relationship to the major European masters of
the nineteenth century
SPAN 352   Masterpieces of Latin American Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  permission of chairperson   
This course is a survey of representative works from pre-Colombian times
to the present day, and an introduction to literary genres and deﬁning
themes in Latin American literature. It is taught in Spanish.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Latin American Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-SPAN352/LASP372   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand the principal works, movements, and
genres in Latin American literature

--- Page 210 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 241
SPAN 353   Literary Masterpieces of Spain   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a survey of representative works of Spanish literature from
the Middle Ages to the present, that is, from the ﬁrst texts in the Castilian
Spanish language (eleventh century), to works of the Renaissance and
Baroque, and beyond, to key works of modern and contemporary times.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain a ﬁrm grasp of Iberian literary production, and an
awareness of their context of production
SPAN 360   Intro to Hispanic Linguistics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  SPAN 271 or 272   
Introduction to Hispanic Linguistics is an introductory course on
the structure of Spanish and its use in the Spanish-speaking world.
Introducing the linguistic terminology and the basis for this science,
helping the student analyze the grammatical structure and sounds of
Spanish, and familiarizing the student with the different varieties of
Spanish.
SPAN 361   Hispanic Women Writers   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  SPAN 271 or SPAN 272   
A comparative study of 20th century Spanish and Latin American women
writers who practice a variety of genres: autobiography, memoir, novel,
short story, poetry, and testimonio.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to recognize the major concerns of 20th century
Hispanic women's writing
SPAN 362   History of Hispanic Feminism   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course challenges the usual view of feminism in Hispanic societies
- that it played a minimal role in the revolutionary movements of the 20th
century - through the reading of a series of works from the colonial period
to the present, that chart the Hispanic woman's struggle to achieve
liberation and self-realization.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to trace the true history of Hispanic feminism,
beginning with Sor Juanna Ines de la Cruz, and ending with such
contemporary feminist writers as Rosario Ferre, Rosario Castellanos,
Montserrat Roig, and Rosa Montero
SPAN 363   Borges   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the poetry and prose of Jorge Luis Borges, one of
the central ﬁgures in 20th century Latin American literature, and one of
the major writers of modern times.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to recognize the major themes and forms of Borges,
as well as appreciate his seminal role in the creation of the so-called
literature of the "boom" in Latin America
SPAN 364   Advanced Spanish Oral Expression   (3 Credit Hours)   
This advanced Spanish course will induce students to acquire more
sophisticated tools for conversational management and oral expression,
and in enlarging their vocabulary through structured practice.
Outcomes:
Students will gain more sophisticated skills and fluency in SpanishSPAN 365   Latin American Cinema   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will focus on Latin American cinema, from its early
beginnings in silent cinema to the present. Instructor's consent required
to enroll.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Latin American Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of the formation of national ﬁlm
industries, the emergence of larger regional trends, and the cinematic
treatment of social, political and economic aspects of various Latin
American countries
SPAN 366   Spanish Cinema   (3 Credit Hours)   
Spanish ﬁlm from early Surrealistic cinema to contemporary pastiche:
Bunuel, Berlanga, Erice, Borau, Saura, Aranda, Almadovar, etc.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of the development of cinema in
Spanish society, and how it incorporated old genres such as comedy or
melodrama
SPAN 367   Spanish Sociolinguistics   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to sociolinguistics.
Outcomes:
Students will gain a rudimentary knowledge of the linguistic sciences
(semantics, phonology, syntax, language acquisition) with a focus mainly
on linguistic issues of great relevance in contemporary United States:
Ebonics, Spanglish, language in the media, language and gender, and
language in politics, and the 'English only' movement
SPAN 368   Baroque and Neobaroque   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course will examine XVII century literature, including poetry, drama
and prose of the periods in Spain and Latin- America, and will study the
works of Quevedo, Gongora, Maria de Zayas, Lope de Vega, Calderon, Sor
Juana, Carpentier, Sarduy.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the aspects of XVII century literature that relate
to visual and spatial contexts, and the transformation that lit erature into
a new style
SPAN 370   Latin American Poetry   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  permission of chairperson   
Panoramic view of Latin American poetry with special emphasis on
modernism, the avant-garde, and the post-World War II period. Selected
authors include Gabriela Mistral, Delmira Agustini, César Vallejo, Vicente
Huidobro, Octavio Paz, Pablo Neruda, and Gio
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Latin American Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-SPAN370/LASP370   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the principle forms, trends, themes and
movements in Latin American verse through the work of poets from Sor
Juana Inés de la Cruz to Ernesto Cardenal
SPAN 371   Latin-American Poetesses   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  permission of chairperson   
Survey of Latin American women's poetry from Sor Juana Inés de la Cruz
to Gioconda Belli.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Latin American Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-SPAN371/LASP371   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to discern a distinctive female voice in Latin
American verse, while familiarizing themselves with the principle women
poets from the colonial period to the present

--- Page 211 ---
242  College of Arts and Sciences
SPAN 380   Latin American Prose Fiction   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  SPAN 270 or 271   
Representative selection of Latin American ﬁction from ﬁrst half of
twentieth century. Taught in Spanish.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Latin American Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-SPAN380/LASP380   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to comment knowledgeably on content, form, and
context of selected Latin American works of ﬁction
SPAN 381   Contemporary Spanish-American Novel   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  SPAN 270 or 271   
This course covers a representative selection of Latin American ﬁction
from second half of twentieth century. Taught in Spanish.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Latin American Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-SPAN381/INTS383/LASP381   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to identify and assess both the contextual and the
formal features of modern Latin American ﬁction
SPAN 382   Latin American Theatre   (3 Credit Hours)   
An introduction to major playwrights from Argentina, Chile, Cuba, México,
Venezuela and Colombia from the early baroque to the 20th Century.
Topics include realism, existentialism, meta-theatre, performance art, and
female dramatists.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Latin American Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-SPAN382/LASP382   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to discuss different schools of drama and their
impact on the stage in South America; They will also become familiar
with playwrights who have used theater to approach social problems and
critique contemporary mores
SPAN 385   Caribbean Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course covers novelists and/or poets from Cuba, the Dominican
Republic and Puerto Rico: Cabrera Infante, Alejo Carpentier, Reinaldo
Arenas, Luis Rafael Sánchez, Ana Lidia Vega, Zoe Valdés, Lezama Lima,
Severo Sarduy and others.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Latin American Studies   
Course equivalencies:  SPAN385/LASP385   
Outcomes:
Students will explore the role of Afro-Caribbean mythology, and learn
about the use of humor and music forms in ﬁction; They will recognize
certain historical patterns (slavery, dictatorship) and how they shape the
creation of extreme characters and situation
SPAN 389   Latin American Short Story   (3 Credit Hours)   
Survey of the Latin American short story from the middle of the 19th
century to the present.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Latin American Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-SPAN389/LASP389   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to contextualize short stories, to analyze them both
formally and thematically, and to recognize the different types of short
story written in Latin American: realist, fantastic, folkloric, indigenist,
humorous, detective, metaphysical, social protest, feminist, etcSPAN 390   Latin American Culture and Civilization   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  SPAN 270 or 271   
This is a survey course of Latin American culture and civilization and
examines the main cultural, intellectual and political currents that have
taken shape in Latin America. Special attention is given to the art and
literature that has come to from contemporary Latin American culture
within the context of colonization and independence.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, Global Studies, Latin American
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-SPAN390/INTS397/LASP390   
Outcomes:
To gain knowledge, analyze and understand the main characteristics
which deﬁne Latin American culture; This will be accomplished through
the study of texts, art and ﬁlm
SPAN 391   Spanish Culture and Civilization   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  SPAN 270 & SPAN 271   
This is a survey course of Spanish culture and civilization and examines
the main cultural, intellectual and political currents that have taken shape
in Iberia and Spain. Special attention is given to the art and literature that
has come to from contemporary Spanish culture within the context of
European history.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
To gain knowledge, analyze and understand the main characteristics
which deﬁne Latin Spanish culture; This will be accomplished through the
study of primary texts, back-ground reading, art and ﬁlm
SPAN 395   Internship   (3 Credit Hours)   
The internship will allow students to work in a variety of settings using
Spanish - business, education, government, or social service agencies.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will gain practical experience in speaking and writing Spanish
SPAN 396   Saints and Sinners of Spain   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  SPAN 270 and SPAN 271 or 272   
This course surveys prominent Spanish Golden Age authors whose
writings reflect the religious, spiritual, and intellectual currents of early
Modern Spain, with a concentration on the culture of the Counter-
Reformation. Its primary focus is how Christian life in reflected in
literature and art and the portrayal of virtue and vice. To comprehend
religious, spiritual and intellectual currents in Spanish culture, as
reflected in literature and art.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
SPAN 397   Topics in Hispanic Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
This revolving-topics course allows students to focus on a speciﬁc
theme, such as Hispanic Feminism, Visions of America, or The Literature,
Cinema ad Music of 21st century Spain. It also provides for in-depth
study of a single author, such as Federico Garcia Lorca, Miguel de
Unamuno or Jorge Luis Borges.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Latin American Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-SPAN397/LASP397   

--- Page 212 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 243
Statistics (STAT)
STAT 103   Fundamentals of Statistics   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides an introduction to statistical reasoning and
techniques in descriptive and inferential statistics and their applications
in economics, education, genetics, medicine, physics, political science,
and psychology. Not open to students who have completed ISOM 241.
Knowledge Area:  Quantitative Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  ISSCM/H/241/STAT103/ACST101/03   
Outcomes:
Students will obtain a background in the fundamentals of descriptive
and inferential statistics along with an understanding of their uses and
misuses; This course satisﬁes the quantitative literacy requirement of the
core curriculum
STAT 203   Introduction to Probability & Statistics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 132 or MATH 162 or MATH 162A; MATH 162 may
also be taken concurrently as a co-requisite   
This course is a Calculus-based rigorous introduction to basic topics in
probability (distributions, expectations, variance, central limit theorem
and the law of large numbers) and statistics (estimation, hypothesis
testing, regression, design of experiments) needed in engineering and
science applications.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain required knowledge in probability and statistics
useful in every area of engineering and science; They will learn how to
assess data and outcomes of experiments
STAT 303   SAS Programming & Applied Statistics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  STAT 103 or 203 or 335   
This course provides an introduction to SAS programming in the context
of practical problems taken from applied statistics.
Outcomes:
Students obtain extensive experience with data-set manipulations, SAS
procedures, and their application in contexts such as t-tests, simple and
multiple regression, ANOVA, and regression
STAT 304   Introduction to Probability   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 263 or MATH 263A   
This course provides a calculus based introduction to probability theory,
including topics such as combinatorial analysis, conditional probability,
and a variety of statistical distributions.
Course equivalencies:  X-MATH304/STAT304   
Outcomes:
Students obtain the theoretical background in probability needed for
further study in probability and statistics
STAT 305   Introduction to Mathematical Statistics   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a continuation of STAT 304 and applies the techniques of
calculus and probability to the study of advanced topics in statistics.
Course equivalencies:  X-MATH305/STAT305   
Outcomes:
Students obtain the theoretical background in statistics needed for
graduate level work in probability and statisticsSTAT 306   Intro to Stochastic Processes   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (STAT 203 or STAT 335) and (MATH 212 or MATH 266)   
This course discusses topics such as ﬁnite-state Markov processes and
Markov chains, classiﬁcation of states, long-run behavior, continuous
time processes, birth and death processes, random walks, and Brownian
motion.
Course equivalencies:  X-MATH306/STAT306   
Outcomes:
Students will obtain a background in stochastic processes that will allow
them to apply them in areas like genetics, population growth, inventory,
cash management, and gambling theory
STAT 307   Statistical Design & Analysis of Experiments   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (STAT 203 or STAT 335 with a C- or better) and STAT 308
with a C- or better   
This course discusses comparative experiments, analysis of variance
and covariance, ﬁxed and random effects models, and a variety of
experimental design models including cross-over and split plot designs;
contemporary statistical software will be used extensively.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain the background in statistical design and analysis of
experiments needed to apply them in their own areas of interest
STAT 308   Applied Regression Analysis   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  STAT 203 or 335   
This course discusses simple and multiple linear regression methods,
multiple comparison estimation procedures, residual analysis, and other
methods for studying the aptness of a proposed regression model;
contemporary statistical software will be used extensively.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an extensive background in the applications of
regression analysis and computer coding of regression models
STAT 310   Categorical Data Analysis   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (STAT 203 or STAT 335) and (STAT 303 or STAT 308)   
An introduction to modern-day extensions of simple linear regression
and ANOVA to the chi-square test including logistic regression and log-
linear modelling techniques based on generalized linear models. Methods
for matched-pair, small datasets, ordinal and multi-category data also
discussed. This course focuses on applications using real-life data sets,
and uses popular software packages.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an extensive background in the applications of
categorical data analysis methods
STAT 311   Applied Survival Analysis   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  STAT 308 (Applied Regression Analysis)   
This course focuses on methods for analyzing time-to-event data.
The course will explore non-parametric methods for analyzing time-
to-event data like Life tables, the Kaplan-Meier method, the Nelson-
Aalen method and the log-rank test. This course will also explo re semi-
parametric models such as the Cox proportional hazards regression
models and parametric models including exponential, Weibull and log-
logistic regression model.
Outcomes:
Derive survival and hazard functions from an underlying distribution,
calculate survival probabilities and hazard rates, compare survival
probabilities and hazard ratios between two or more cohorts

--- Page 213 ---
244  College of Arts and Sciences
STAT 321   Computational Aspects of Modeling and Simulation   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  STAT 308   
This course uses SAS and R languages to address statistical modelling
and to conduct statistical simulations to assess linear, generalized linear,
nonlinear and complex models and experimental designs.
Course equivalencies:  X-STAT356/COMP321/STAT321   
Outcomes:
Students will gain practical experience and knowledge in real-world
statistical situations for which underlying theory is cumbersome or
intractable
STAT 335   Introduction to Biostatistics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 102 and (MATH 132 or MATH 162 or MATH 162A
(MATH 162 may be taken as a pre- or co-requisite))   
For Bioinformatics Majors only: BIOL 101 and (MATH 132 or MATH 162
or MATH 162A (MATH 162 may be taken as a pre- or co-requisite)). This
course provides an introduction to descriptive and inferential statistics
in the biological sciences. Topics include data visualization, probability,
discrete and continuous probability distributions, conﬁdence intervals, t-
tests, tests of proportions, chi-square tests, correlation, linear regression
and ANOVA. Contemporary computer software will be used to apply the
methods.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics, Forensic Science   
Course equivalencies:  X-BIOL335/STAT335   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to visualize data appropriately, to properly design
a statistical experiment, to apply the correct statistical methods and
properly analyze the results
STAT 336   Advanced Biostatistics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  STAT 203 or STAT 335   
This course overviews applied statistical methods useful in biomedical
modelling chosen from: experimental design, categorical data analysis
including logistic regression, nonlinear regression, bioassay and synergy
modelling, multivariate methods, survival statistics, and longitudinal
data analysis techniques. Modern statistical software methods will be
extensively used and illustrated.
Course equivalencies:  X-STAT336/BIOL336   
Outcomes:
Students are expected to obtain expertise in applying this course's
advanced biostatistical methods application areas including knowing
how best to implement these methods, interpret results, and use
statistical software output
STAT 337   Quantitative Methods in Bioinformatics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  STAT 203 or 335   
This course develops the mathematical and statistical methods
necessary to analyze and interpret genomic and proteomic data,
including signal analysis, sequence alignment methods, data-bas e search
methods useful in bioinformatics and data mining.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics   
Course equivalencies:  XSTAT337/BIOL337/BIOI337   
Outcomes:
Students will obtain the quantitative skills used in BLAST , including
inference, stochastic processes and hidden Markov models, random
walks, microarray analysis and biological sequence analysisSTAT 338   Predictive Analytics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  STAT 308   
Students will study methods for predicting future events and properly
classifying data using both supervised and unsupervised statistical
learning techniques.
Outcomes:
Learn methods for predicting and classifying; Model Selection; Evaluate
the effectiveness and accuracy of a model/prediction
STAT 344   Longitudinal Data Analysis and Mixed Modelling   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (STAT 203 or STAT 335 with a C- or better) and STAT 308
with a C- or better or permission of the instructor   
Repeated measures and longitudinal data are ubiquitous in studies,
research and applications. This course explores methods for repeated
measures, longitudinal (time-series), and nested/hierarchical data in a
detailed manner. These methods take account of correlations between
measurements by allowing each individual in a study to serve as their
own control.
Outcomes:
Students are expected to master the analysis and interpretation of
repeated measures, longitudinal, mixed, and nested/hierarchical data;
This includes effectively using R, SAS or other software for these data
analyses
STAT 351   Nonparametric Statistical Methods   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  STAT 203 or STAT 335 with C- or better   
This course will cover the basic principles of nonparametric methods in
statistics including: one, two and K sample location methods; tests of
randomness; tests of goodness of ﬁt; nonlinear correlation; histogram;
density estimation; nonparametric regression. Students should learn
how to apply the nonparametric techniques in real datasets, interpret the
results and draw conclusions.
STAT 370   Data Science Consulting   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  STAT 308   
Students will work on a research project with a client acting as a
consultant on the statistical and computational aspects of the project.
Students are required to meet with a client, develop a strategy for
addressing their problem, and present their results to the client (and their
classmates).
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
1) Apply methods learned in classes to a address a real world problem; 2)
Oral and Written presentation skills; 3) Collaboration skills
STAT 388   Topics   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  STAT 203 or STAT 335   
This course covers advanced topics in statistics, such as multivariate
analysis, sampling theory, non-parametric methods, decision theory, and
Bayesian analysis.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an understanding of an advanced topic in their major

--- Page 214 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 245
STAT 390   Undergraduate Seminar   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  Senior Standing, including completion of MATH 304/
STAT 304   
The seminar will cultivate students' presentation skills through
participation in and critical discussion of brief lectures on familiar and
unfamiliar topics; preparation and presentation of two brief lectures by
the student (one on a familiar topic from the curriculum, one on a higher
level material not customarily from the curriculum); and preparation of an
extended abstract summarizing the advanced material presented.
Outcomes:
Students will gain the ability to present material in Statistics, and their
applications to a general audience
STAT 391   Internship in Actuarial Science   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  STAT 304 and 396; approval of the internship director   
This course offers an opportunity to obtain experience in actuarial
science in a professional environment; placement requires approval of
the internship coordinator and acceptance by an employer.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will obtain ﬁrst hand experience doing actuarial work in a real
world environment
STAT 396   Actuarial Seminar I   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 263   
The seminar provides a comprehensive review of the probability topics
that most commonly appear on the Actuarial Exam P . Topics covered
include: axiomatic probability, combinatorial probability, conditional
probability and Bayes' Theorem, independence, random variables and
their various distributions, joint distributions, marginal distributions,
conditional distributions of tow of more random variables.
Outcomes:
The purpose of the seminar is to prepare students for the Actuarial Exam
P; The students will also learn test-taking strategies and will  have the
opportunity to take practice tests
STAT 397   Actuarial Seminar II   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 263   
The seminar is a continuation of STAT 396. It provides a comprehensive
review of topics in probability and risk management directed toward
students preparing for the Actuarial Exam P . Additional topics may
include order statistics, moment-generating functions, the Central Limit
Theorem and risk analysis.
Outcomes:
The purpose of the seminar is to prepare students for the Actuarial Exam
P; The students will also learn test-taking strategies and will  have the
opportunity to take practice tests
STAT 398   Independent Study   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
This course allows students to engage in independent study on selected
topics in statistics under the supervision of a faculty member.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an understanding of an advanced topic in their major
STAT 399H   Honors Tutorial   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
This course allows students in the honors program to engage in
independent study of selected topics in statistics for honors c redit under
the supervision of a faculty member.
Course equivalencies:  STAT399H / STAT399   
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an understanding of an advanced topic in their majorTheatre (THTR)
THTR 100   Intro to Theatre Experience   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introductory study of the theatrical art form and its
contemporary production practice. Students engage in a series of
workshops and participatory creative projects.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate the ability to identify the variety of
collaborating arts and artists that combine to create of a work of theatre;
to analyze a play script for live performance; to evaluate theatrical
production; and to creatively apply knowledge of theatrical process
through expressive and creative endeavors
THTR 142   Class Voice for Beginners   (3 Credit Hours)   
This class is for the student who has never had voice instruction
and is interested in learning the art of performance in voice. Strongly
recommended for those interested in the music major, theater or public
speaking/performance
Course equivalencies:  THTR242/THTR142/MUSC142   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding and application of the
fundamentals of music theory, diction, and tone
THTR 154   Introduction to Opera   (3 Credit Hours)   
Survey of opera from 1600 to the present and consideration of opera
as an art form which combines music and drama. Analysis of libretto
structure and study of the variety of operatic styles are included.
Course equivalencies:  X-MUSC154/THTR154   
Outcomes:
Fundamental acquaintance with a wide selection of operatic literature
and the principle eras of the European and American traditions
THTR 203   Dramatic & Theatrical Process   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to the basic methods of analyzing and
interpreting plays representative of the modern stage (from Ibsen to the
present). It explores how text analysis is, for all theatre artists, a critical
ﬁrst step in transferring the printed play text to the stage.
Outcomes:
Students will acquire the ability to analyze a play's structure and
ideational content, its characters, and the potential challenge s each play
presents to theatre artists seeking to produce the play on the stage for a
modern audience
THTR 204   Playwriting   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THTR 100 or THTR 203   
This course is and introduction to the theories and techniques of
playwriting with particular emphasis on the analysis of dramatic
structure.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the theories and
techniques of playwriting and dramatic structure through application of
these skills in several playwriting exercises and the development of a one
act play

--- Page 215 ---
246  College of Arts and Sciences
THTR 205   Theatre in Chicago   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to live theatre in the rich Chicago theatre
scene. Students will develop an appreciation and enjoyment of drama
through attendance at live theatre performance and sharpen critical
thinking skills through written critiques and discussion of those
productions.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of and appreciation for the range of
theatrical experiences, traditions and expressions available in the City of
Chicago
THTR 209   Screenwriting   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces students to the process of writing for the
screen. Through exercises and analysis of structure and story-telling
fundamentals, writers develop a working sense of the paradigm and
the art of dramatic writing. Extensive writing requirements cover all
aspects of screenwriting, culminating in the development of a workable
screenplay.
Course equivalencies:  X-COMM326/THTR209/IFMS209   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the fundamentals of
screenwriting through the completion of various writing exercises and the
creation of a screenplay
THTR 227   Stage Management   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores the role of the stage manager in theatrical
production from pre-production through closing documentation.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of the responsibilities and
duties of a Stage Manager to a production; develop the necessary
communication and organizational skills to fulﬁll these responsibilities in
a production experience; and be exposed to various techniques and tools
used in professional stage management
THTR 235   Figure Studio   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FNAR 113 or 114 or permission of the instructor   
This is an advanced level studio course designed to introduce the human
form with an emphasis on the application of drawing and wet media.
Course equivalencies:  X-FNAR235/THTR235   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the human
form and anatomy through expanded practice and articulation of both
formal and artistic ideas
THTR 241   Voice & Diction for Stage I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the techniques of effective voice and speech
production.
Course equivalencies:  THTR 241 / THTR 241E   
Outcomes:
Through class exercises and presentations, students will demonstrate
greater knowledge and control over their breath support, tonal placement,
vocal resonance, projection, clarity of articulation, Standard American
vowel and consonant formation, language orchestration and colorationTHTR 244   Voice & Diction for Stage II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THTR 241   
This course is for students who have completed Voice and Diction for the
Stage I and explores advanced voice and speech techniques. Students
will continue work on their individual voice/speech challenges as well as
focusing on the special voice/speech skills required of the stage actor.
Outcomes:
Through a series of in class presentations, students will demonstrate
their control over the voice, speech, and language challenges which
confront the actor in the performance of non-realistic plays (Shakespeare,
Restoration Comedy, Expressionism, and Absurd) and in realistic plays
with heightened language
THTR 252   Theatrical Design I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces the theatre student to the fundamentals of design
especially as they relate to the theatrical design of sets, lights, and
costumes.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of the tools a set, costume,
and lighting designer use to express their ideas; improve their abilities
to communicate their creative ideas; appreciate how design affects an
overall theatrical experience; and be prepared to engage in practical
design experience in our theatre
THTR 261   Beginning Acting   (3 Credit Hours)   
Beginning Acting is an introduction designed to provide a foundation
in the critical understanding and practical application of cont emporary
acting theories and techniques. Content will focus on stimulating full
utilization of the actor's instrument (mind, body, voice, imagination, and
emotion) and using exercises and improvisations to provide a practical
approach to standard acting challenges.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will develop skills in observation, concentration and
imagination, as well as critical skills in script analysis
THTR 267   Acting Theories &Techniques II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THTR 266   
This course builds on the skills introduced in THTR 266 and development
of physical and vocal skills towards performance of character from
classical texts.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Shakespeare Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will develop skills to research historical information for
application in performance of characters and improve use of the body
and voice to communicate character
THTR 275   Teleplay Production   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THTR 266 or Permission of ICVM director   
This course explores the challenges and methods of producing, acting
and directing for the camera.
Course equivalencies:  X-THTR275/IFMS275   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate and understanding of the process of problem
solving of producing, acting and directing for the camera through the
production of on camera scenes

--- Page 216 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 247
THTR 300   Design Technology: Special Effects, Sound Engineer   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Special Effects, Sound Engineering, Moving Light Programing,
Projections, Computer Aided Drafting and Automation Design
Outcomes:
To provide a broad overview of current state of the art stage design
technologies through lectures, demonstrations, and hands-on work
THTR 301   Costume Technology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THTR 252 and 253   
This course introduces the student to the fundamentals of costume
construction including: pattern draughting, corsetry, different stitch uses,
pleating and gathering techniques, tools of the shop, and basic draping.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to: use a basic pattern or sloper to generate their
own period costumes, understand why different stitches or construction
methods are used, know the tools of the shop, improve their knowledge of
fabric choices, and understand the process of draping
THTR 305   Theatre Workshop: Special Topics   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces the student to a style, genre or method theatre
making through active application in exercises, demonstrations, games
and workshops.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will develop skills in applying performance theory to practice;
develop performance skills in a particular style or genre; expand a
repertoire of rehearsal techniques; and develop skills to create original
theatre pieces
THTR 321   Practicum: Costumes   (2 Credit Hours)   
This course is a practical application of the material studied in a variety
of theatre classes, and provides hands on experience scenic or costume
construction.
Course equivalencies:  THTR321/THTR 321E/THTR321C   
Outcomes:
Students will acquire a variety of skills necessary for producing theatre;
including collaboration and organization skills and will gain appreciation
for the complexity play production
THTR 321C   Practicum: Costumes   (2 Credit Hours)   
This course is a practical application of the material studied in a variety
of theatre classes, and provides hands on experience scenic or costume
construction.
Course equivalencies:  THTR321/THTR 321E/THTR321C   
Outcomes:
Students will acquire a variety of skills necessary for producing theatre;
including collaboration and organization skills and will gain appreciation
for the complexity play production
THTR 321E   Practicum: Electrics   (2 Credit Hours)   
This course is a practical application of the material studied in a variety
of theatre classes, and provides hands on experience with electrics.
Course equivalencies:  THTR321/THTR 321E/THTR321C   
Outcomes:
Students will acquire a variety of skills necessary for producing theatre;
including collaboration and organization skills and will gain appreciation
for the complexity play productionTHTR 321P   Theatre Practicum: Production Staff   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  Permission of the Department   
This course is a practical application of the material studied in a variety
of theatre classes, and provides hands on experience as production staff.
Outcomes:
Students will acquire a variety of skills necessary for producing theatre;
including collaboration and organization skills and will gain appreciation
for the complexity play production
THTR 321R   Theatre Practicum: Running Crew   (1 Credit Hour)   
This course is a practical application of the material studied in a variety
of theatre classes, and provides hands on experience with a running crew.
Outcomes:
Students will acquire a variety of skills necessary for producing theatre;
including collaboration and organization skills and will gain appreciation
for the complexity play production
THTR 321S   Practicum: Scenic   (2 Credit Hours)   
Theatre Practicum (Scenery) is one of four experiential learning courses
that will provide the student with an opportunity for practical application
of varied techniques and theories in planning and construction of
theatrical scenery and properties. The speciﬁc topics and skills the
course will focus on vary from semester to semester as per the demands
of each design.
THTR 323   Rehearsal & Performance   (1-12 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  permission of the instructor   
This course allows students to receive credit for stage managing, acting
in or directing a campus production during the semester. Completion and
submission of a journal or paper is required. Course may be repeated up
to 12 times for a total of no more than 12 credit hours.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will gain performance experience, assess personal artistic
growth, and reflect on application of performance theory and technique
covered in coursework to production practice
THTR 324   Applied Design and Management   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
This independent study course supports student scene, costume,
lighting, make-up, sound or property designers and stage managers
selected by the faculty to design or manage for university productions.
Department Permission Required.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will deepen their understanding of a design process via ﬁrst
hand experience in our theatre
THTR 324D   Applied Design   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
This class will teach Stage Design techniques in practice in production
through mentorship. Students will design productions or assist faculty
designers.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will accomplish goals in Communication, Collaboration and
Conception; Design, Application and Reflection
THTR 324M   Applied Management   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
This class will teach Stage Management techniques in practice in
production through mentorship. Students will Stage Manage or Assistant
Stage Manage productions.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will accomplish goals in Communication, Collaboration and
Conception; Application; Reflection

--- Page 217 ---
248  College of Arts and Sciences
THTR 325   Costume Design I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course exposes students in the planning, design and execution of
costumes for the stage though a variety of costume design projects
throughout historical periods and stylistic genres.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of how a costume designer
makes choices based on color, silhouette, line, texture, historical research,
personal style, collaborative input, and intended response from the
audience through application on projects
THTR 326   Costume Design II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THTR 325   
This course continues the project work from Costume Design I, exploring
more detail in style and historical accuracy.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate the ability to prepare a costume design in any
genre or period
THTR 327   Theatre Management and Arts Leadership   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THTR 100 or THTR 203   
This course is an introduction to the economic, managerial and
administrative aspects of American Theatre and performing arts in
general, with an emphasis on the non-for proﬁt Chicago and Regional
Theatre Industry and practical and contemporary aspects of the ﬁeld. Any
student looking to work in performing arts leadership or administration or
start their own company will ﬁnd this course valuable.
Outcomes:
Students demonstrate knowledge of the evolution of arts organizations
and theatrical management; practical management tools; the economic
challenges of producing theatre; production trends in the industry;
the theories and processes behind planning and decision making; and
students will gain appreciation for the importance of management in
theatrical productions and organizations
THTR 328   Lighting Design I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to the principles of theatrical lighting
design and the process by which a designer makes choices based on
script analysis, period research and collaborative interaction.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-THTR328/ICVM328/IFMS328   
Outcomes:
The student will develop a process by which to approach lighting design
as well as an understanding of instrumentation and control of stage
lighting
THTR 329   Make-up and Mask Design   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course involves a hands-on study of make-up techniques especially
as they relate to basic theatrical needs, character make-up, and special
effects make-up.
Outcomes:
Students will be prepared to use make-up effectively in the theatre either
as performers or beginning make-up designers, and to understand the
variety of techniques and tools a make-up designer has available
THTR 330   Lighting Design II   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a continuation of the study of the principles of theatrical
lighting design and the process by which a designer makes choices
based on script analysis, period research and collaborative interaction
Outcomes:
The student will develop a process by which to approach lighting design
as well as an understanding of instrumentation and control of stage
lightingTHTR 331   Movement: Theories & Technique I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the relationship between the kinetic and
kinesthetic experiences and personality development.
Course equivalencies:  THTR 331 / THTR 331E   
Outcomes:
Through a series of exercises, students will demonstrate an awareness
of one's physical mannerisms, increased conﬁdence in one's physical
presence on stage and demonstrate physical transformation into
character
THTR 335   London Theatre Experience   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a month long study abroad experience which allows the
student to intensively study British theatre through excursions within
London, special guest lecturers, walking tours, workshops, gallery and
museum visits, and attendance of at least eight plays.
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of the importance of London theatre
and its influence on the rest of the world's theatre
THTR 336   Stage Combat for Actors   (3 Credit Hours)   
This class will teach Stage Combat techniques that will allow actors to
perform ﬁghts effectively and safely. Students will work towards a ﬁnal
performance involving all students in a story told through violence.
Outcomes:
Be able to perform a choreographed stage combat sequence effectively
and safely at full speed and before a live audience
THTR 341   Studies in Dramatic Form   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course studies the various structural forms drama has taken from
the Greeks to the present. In particular it looks at tragedy, comedy, and
melodrama and seeks to ﬁnd their roots in the cultures which nurtured
them.
Outcomes:
the student will be able to distinguish various dramatic forms as well
as their roots in their cultures, and will have a vocabulary with which to
discuss and evaluate them
THTR 344   Dialects for the Stage   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provide instruction in the dialects most frequently used
by the American actor and to explore a systematic approach to dialect
acquisition which will serve the student in further independent dialect
study.
Outcomes:
Students will acquire a working knowledge of the International Phonetic
Alphabet, an understanding of the historical and cultural background
of each dialect, skills in applying dialects to dramatic texts, and an
introduction to the work of the dialect coach in the theatre
THTR 345   Drafting for the Theatre   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces the student to basic theatrical drafting techniques
and mediums.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate the ability to draft ground plan and section,
scenic elevations as well as a light plot
THTR 346   Scenic Art: Color Elevation to Scene Painting   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course is introduces the student to basic scene painting techniques
for the theatre.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of the role of the scenic artist
in relationship to the scenic designer, develop basic level skills required to
execute the designer's intention or vision and execute a paint elevation

--- Page 218 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 249
THTR 347   Children's Theatre   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to the basic principles and techniques of
producing theatre for young audiences. Methods of working with child
performers will be applied to in a laboratory setting with children.
Outcomes:
Students will identify the age-level characteristics of child audiences and
appropriate script choices for each level
THTR 348   Theatre Pedagogy   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores the process of engaging children with teaching
artistry techniques such as theatre acting games, design, and technical
theatre as a means towards self-expression, personal development
and content learning. This course will utilize planning tools and teach
facilitation techniques that can be utilized across artistic practices.
Laboratory experiences working with children are provided.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  THTR348/CIEPM95   
Outcomes:
Students will articulate the differences and similarities between theatre
for children and creative dramatics disciplines, develop age appropriate
materials and exercises, identify appropriate facilitating methods and
techniques and apply these techniques in a laboratory setting
THTR 352   Theatrical Design II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THTR 252   
An Intermediate course of study to explore the process of Theatre Design
(Scenic, Costumes, and Lighting.) Collaboration and storytelling thru
visual means is the key to understanding text-based theatre. Each
individual will have the opportunity to express ideas in class discussions,
written critical analysis and execution of design while enhancing the
process of design
Outcomes:
The purpose of this course is to develop intermediate design skills
building upon those learned THTR 252
THTR 353   Theatrical Design III   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THTR 252 and THTR 352   
This team taught course will alternate between full group discussions on
topics valuable to all disciplines and small group instruction on speciﬁc
techniques within sub-disciplines. Students will declare a discipline at
beginning of the course. Students can repeat the course to pursue a
second discipline. Students will be placed in teams of complime ntary
disciplines.
THTR 354   Storytelling Design: Puppetry, Properties and Toy   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THTR 252, and either THTR 261 or 266   
Puppetry is one of the oldest forms of storytelling. This course is
intended to allow the student to several explore different forms of
storytelling through the use of puppets and puppetry. The course will
explore shadow puppetry, toy theatre and hand & rod puppetry. Each
student will develop, as a member of a series of "production teams", a
brief performance piece base.
Outcomes:
Students will gain skill in design through the storytelling techniques of
puppetry and toy theatreTHTR 355   Sound Design I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THTR 252   
This course is an introduction to the principles of sound design with and
emphasis on theatrical performance. The student will develop a process
for approaching sound design, and for expressing their concept and
intention in a collaborative and presentation setting.
Outcomes:
The student will develop a process by which to approach sound design
as well as an understanding of equipment and control of theatrical sound
production
THTR 356   Sound Design II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THTR 355 Sound Design I   
This course is a continuation of work begun in THTR 355: Sound Design I.
The student will develop a process for approaching sound design, and for
expressing their concept and intention in a collaborative and presentation
setting.
Outcomes:
The student will develop a process by which to approach sound design
as well as an understanding of equipment and control of theatrical sound
production
THTR 364   Theatre History and Literature I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THTR 203   
Theatre History and Literature is a part of a four-course sequence that
examines works of dramatic literature in their historical context. Theatre
History and Literature I focuses on the development of theatre from Greek
through Jacobean and Caroline periods. Learning They will also apply
research to creative practice.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Shakespeare Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will identify and describe events, practitioners, practices,
theatre architecture and signiﬁcant plays within their historical context
THTR 365   Theatre History and Literature II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THTR 203   
Theatre History and Literature is a four course sequence that examines
works of dramatic literature in their historical context. Theatre History
and Literature II focuses on the development of theatre from the 16th
through 19th centuries. This class is Writing Intensive. Learning They will
also apply research to creative practice.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Shakespeare Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will identify and describe events, practitioners, practices,
theatre architecture and signiﬁcant plays within their historical context
THTR 366   Theatre History and Literature III   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THTR 203   
Theatre History and Literature is a part of a four-course sequence that
examines works of dramatic literature in their historical context. Theatre
History and Literature III focuses on the development of theatre from the
19th through mid-20th centuries. This class is writing intensive. Learning
They will also apply research to creative practice.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will identify and describe events, practitioners, practices,
theatre architecture and signiﬁcant plays within their historical context

--- Page 219 ---
250  College of Arts and Sciences
THTR 367   Theatre History and Literature IV   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THTR 203   
Theatre History and Literature is a four-course sequence that examines
works of dramatic literature in their historical context. Theatre History
and Literature IV focuses on contemporary and post-modern theatre.
Learning They will also apply research to creative practice.
Outcomes:
Students will identify and describe events, practitioners, practices,
theatre architecture and signiﬁcant plays within their historical context
THTR 368   Acting Theories and Techniques III   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course continues the work of THTR 267, based on the needs of the
students, using plays by modern and contemporary playwrights as the
primary material.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of how to
interpret and effectively perform plays written since the early 19th
century up to present day
THTR 369   Acting Theories and Techniques IV   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THTR 267   
This course continues the work of THTR 368 based on the needs of the
students. Performance material is at discretion of the instructor.
Outcomes:
Students will further develop performance skills and workshop areas of
weakness based on individual needs and interests
THTR 371   Stage Design I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THTR 252   
This course introduces the student to the role of the scenic designer
and the process of script analysis, period research and graphic
communication utilized to develop a scenic design with a focus on how
collaborative interaction may inform those choices.
Outcomes:
The student will develop a systematic approach to the scenic designer's
creative process and demonstrate the ability to communicate a scenic
idea through the practice of sketches, ground plans and scale models
THTR 372   Stage Design II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THTR 371   
This is an advanced course in the development of the scenic designer's
creative process, skills, and techniques.
Outcomes:
Student will further develop the skills required of a scenic designer and
develop a diverse design portfolio
THTR 375   Play Direction: Theater Capstone   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THTR 203, 252, 266, 267, 364, 365, 366 and 367, or 375 may
be taken concurrently with THTR 367   
This course explores the fundamental principles of play direction.
Students are required to direct a monologue, select a play script for
production, develop a production concept, stage a ﬁfteen-minute scene,
and develop a detailed Director's Notebook.
Outcomes:
Students acquire the skills to identify the basic elements of stage
direction; analyze a play script from the point of view of the director;
articulate and defend a production concept; develop actor-coaching
skills; and identify elements of direction that communicate story, theme,
and conceptTHTR 376   Advanced Play Direction   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THTR 375   
This intensive lecture-performance course will expand on principles and
practices of play direction covered in THTR 375, with particular emphasis
on staging, spatial dynamics, and collaboration with design artists.
Outcomes:
Students acquire the skills to place current trends in Directing in
historical and theoretical context; articulate a personal artistic mission
in relation to the Directing craft; articulate and defend a concept
for production; and translate conflict, story, and theme to practical
application in ground-plans, staging, actor-coaching, and design choices
THTR 377   Audition Seminar   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THTR 368   
This course focuses on preparing to audition for professional theatre,
commercial and ﬁlm with particular emphasis on audition for Chicago
Theatre.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate the ability to engage an auditor through
an audition, demonstrate the ability to score and read copy truthfully,
develop a head shot and resume and develop a personal repertoire of
suitable audition pieces
THTR 393   Shakespeare Seminar   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENGL 326, THTR 365, and 9 credit hours for electives in the
minor   
This course provides a capstone seminar experience for students,
focusing on how Shakespeare has been interpreted on the page and the
stage. It will culminate with a thesis project, either scholarly or creative,
that will serve as the capstone for the Shakespeare Studies Minor.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Shakespeare Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will engage in advanced scholarly work in Shakespearean
Studies towards development of a scholarly thesis or signiﬁcant project
THTR 394   Internship in Theatre   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
Theatre students complete a semester long internship providing an
opportunity to use their technical, research or organizations skills in
a professional setting. Students must complete and reflect upon 50
hours of internship experience per credit hour that is pre-approved by
the Department of Fine and Performing Arts. Department Permission
Required. No more than 6 credit hours of Internship of Fieldwork may be
applied to the major.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students gain professional experience working at a theatrical
organization while reflecting on their work experience and applying
theories and techniques acquired from their theatre courses
THTR 395   Seminar in Theatre   (3 Credit Hours)   
Subject and requirements of this course will be determined by needs and
interests of the students.
Outcomes:
To be determined by the instructor in consultation with the chairperson
THTR 396   Seminar in Theatre II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Subject and requirements to be determined by needs and interests of the
students.
Outcomes:
To be determined by the instructor in consultation with the chairperson

--- Page 220 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 251
THTR 397   Fieldwork in Chicago - Theatre   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
Variable credit (1-6 hours) given for performances or projects undertaken
with professional theatre organizations outside the university. Students
keep a journal and write evaluative papers. Permission of the Department
of Fine and Performing Arts Required. Repeatable for up to 6 credit hours,
however no more than 6 credit hours of Internship or Fieldwork can be
applied towards the major.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Speciﬁc outcomes and credit hours assigned to be determined by the
student in consultation with the Director of Theatre and the project
supervisor
THTR 399   Independent Study   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  written permission of chairperson   
Independent study projects may be of various kinds and in any
recognized area of the theatre arts. Such projects should be done under
the close supervision of a theatre faculty member.
Outcomes:
To be determined by the student in consultation with the chairperson and
theatre faculty supervisor
Theology (THEO)
THEO 100   Christian Theology   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to reflection on and analysis of the
Christian theological tradition.
Knowledge Area:  Foundational Theological Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies   
Course equivalencies:  ACTHE 101 / THEO 100   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the tasks of
Christian theology in its efforts to understand the human situation
from the perspective of faith, various challenges to theology in the
contemporary world, and will focus on one or more current theological
issues
THEO 107   Introduction to Religious Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to the contemporary ﬁeld of religious
studies, focusing on both the theoretical investigations of religious
traditions, as well as on the study of selected religious texts and
practices (such as creation stories, sacred biographies, sacred scriptures
of a religious tradition(s) rituals, ritual taboos, religiously motivated
behaviors.
Knowledge Area:  Foundational Theological Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Interreligious and Interfaith Studies   
Course equivalencies:  THEO170 / THEO270 / ACTHE 107   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze and interpret various ways in which
religious traditions intersect with contemporary issues
THEO 114   Introduction to the Qur'an   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides an introduction to the central Islamic scripture,
the Qur'an in terms of its main features and themes, and as a basis
for the theological and ethical teachings of Islam, employing both
classical interpretive traditions and contemporary academic approaches.
Outcome: Students will be able to demonstrate and understanding of
the nature of the main Islamic scripture, the Qur'an, and its influence
on Muslim beliefs, ethical understandings, and social and religious
practices.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Theological Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Black
World Studies, Global Studies, Islamic World Studies   
Course equivalencies:  THEO114INTS114BWS114IWS114   THEO 167   Religions in China   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a survey of various religions in China that may include,
not only Confucianism and Taoism, but also Buddhism, Christianity,
Islam, Judaism, Zoroastrianism, Manicheism and popular or "folk"
religion. The course will consider the function of these various religions
in the development of Chinese society and their signiﬁcance in Chinese
civilization from ancient mythology to contemporary practices and
developments. "
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO167/ASIA167/INTS167   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge of the beliefs, practices,
and institutions in varied contexts and historical periods in China, of
various religions, both indigenous and "foreign
THEO 168   Sacred Texts of China   (3 Credit Hours)   
Through the study of primary sacred texts of China (in translation), this
class will provide a basic understanding of Chinese thought and its
historical development. Interconnections among the various periods and
different schools of Chinese philosophy such as Confucianism, Taoism,
Buddhism and Neo-Confucianism will be demonstrated and discussed
from ancient through the medieval and modern periods.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO168/ASIA168/INTS168   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge of the major Chinese
sacred texts and teachings of various religious and philosophical
traditions, and how they developed and interacted historically
THEO 169   Taoism   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students will study the history and main ideas and practices of Taoism,
meet the sages who wrote the Taoist texts, be introduced to the various
schools of Taoist philosophy, and get a feel for what it means to practice
Taoism today. The course will illustrate how religious Taoism established
a relationship with Confucian thought and practice as well as how at each
stage of its historical development, Taoism exerted a profound influence
on Chinese politics, economy, culture, art, natural sciences, and social life.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Theological Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Chinese Language & Culture, Global
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO169/ASIA169/INTS169   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge of philosophical and
religious Taoist beliefs, practices, and institutions in varied contexts and
historical periods
THEO 185   Christian Ethics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Introduction to Christian Ethics is a core course that explores the major
sources, methods, and insights of Christian social and theological ethics.
Particular attention is given to Roman Catholic thought. The course will
concentrate on the foundational sources in Christian ethics and examine
the moral signiﬁcance of major theological themes and afﬁrmations.
Knowledge Area:  Ethics   
Outcomes:
Students will identify the major sources of Christian ethics (Scripture,
Church tradition, philosophy, the social and human sciences, and human
experience), and gain practice in identifying how different thinkers use,
interpret, and prioritize these sources

--- Page 221 ---
252  College of Arts and Sciences
THEO 186   Global Religious Ethics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Religious Ethics explores fundamental moral sources and methods in
Christian ethics in dialogue with the ethical understandings of at least
one other religious tradition, and with special attention to Roman Catholic
thought. In doing so, it explores moral issues faced by individuals and
communities from theological perspectives, particularly mindful of how
the economic, political and cultural structures in a religiously plural world
affect those issues.
Knowledge Area:  Ethics   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies   
Outcomes:
In this course, students will explore and compare the ethical
understandings of Christianity and at least one other religious tradition;
With respect to each tradition, students will learn about the foundational
sources, doctrines and questions that guide its ethical thinking
THEO 190   Loyola's Mission: Ignatian Traditions   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course introduces students to LUC's mission through theological
reflection on the main themes of the Transformative Education mission-
statement: spirituality and faith, interlinked human knowing, moral
compass, civic and environmental responsibility.
Course equivalencies:  THEO190 / THEO290   
Outcomes:
Integration into the LUC community, ethos, and vision
THEO 192   Topics in Moral Problems   (3 Credit Hours)   
A critical examination of one or more areas of moral concern from the
viewpoint of Christian ethics. May include: medical ethics, professional
ethics, social justice issues, racism, environmental concerns, and war and
peace studies.
Course equivalencies:  THEO192 / THEO292   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of ethical
comprehension, analysis, and decision-making within the context of
select theological and religious traditions
THEO 203   Social Justice and Injustice   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THEO 100, THEO 107, or equivalent; please check
requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions   
The course introduces students to Catholic and Protestant approaches
to social justice. Students will also study theories and analyses of
social injustice. Students will study speciﬁc instances of social injustice
(gender, race, and class). It will increase student awareness of diversity, in
the United States and globally.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Theological Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics, Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies,
Race and Ethnicity   
Outcomes:
Summarize relevant social, economic, policy history/context that related
to current sites of injustice related to racial-ethnic inequalities, economic
inequality, immigration status, healthcare, and sex/gender inequality;
Distinguish among distinct theories of justice in both theological
and philosophical thought; Describe the moral challenges posed by
injustice; Relate key ideas, traditions, & practices in Christian theological,
philosophical, and other religious thought that may help individuals and
societies move closer to approximating justice in society/worldTHEO 204   Religious Ethics and the Ecological Crisis   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THEO 100, THEO 107, or equivalent; please check
requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions   
Advances in technology and industry confront us with unprecedented
abilities for altering long standing climate patterns. These capacities
challenge many traditional religious and ethical assumptions about
humanity and our relationship to the nonhuman world. We will examine
the resources that religious traditions of the world offer for promoting
ecological responsibility.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Theological Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics, Catholic Studies, Peace, Justice, and
Conflict Studies   
Outcomes:
students will be able to:*Summarize relevant history related to scientiﬁc,
policy & political data and decisions *Describe central scientiﬁc and
ethical challenges posed by the climate crisis *Relate key ideas,
traditions, & practices in Christian theological, philosophical, and other
religious thought that may help address this crisis
THEO 231   Hebrew Bible/Old Testament   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THEO 100, THEO 107, or equivalent; please check
requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course provides an introduction to the Old Testament / Tanakh
(Hebrew Scriptures).
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Theological Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Islamic World Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of central texts,
beliefs, ethical understanding, and practices of Judaism and Christianity
THEO 232   New Testament   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THEO 100 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course is an introduction to the historical and theological reading of
the various documents of early Christianity known as the New Testament.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Theological Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO112/CATH112   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the liter ary genres
found in the New Testament and explain why the recognition of genre
is essential to the interpretation of the New Testament, as well as the
importance of how the New Testament documents have reached their
present state
THEO 265   Sacraments and the Christian Imagination   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THEO 100 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course studies the realities of Christian faith life as expressed and
celebrated in the concrete rituals of the Christian communities.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Theological Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO265/CATH106   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate how a sacramental system of
aesthetics is often embedded in cultural artifacts such as poetry, music,
painting, literature, and ﬁlm, and recognize and interpret the impact
of history and cultures on the development of Christian doctrine and
practices

--- Page 222 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 253
THEO 266   Church & Global Cultures   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THEO 100, THEO 107, or equivalent; please check
requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course provides an introduction to ways in which the Christian
churches, and primarily the Roman Catholic Church, understand and
enact their identity in relation to the secular world of culture, economics,
and politics, both nationally and globally.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Theological Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, Italian Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO105/CATH105   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze and interpret contrasting Christian
understandings of the notion of original sin, and demonstrate knowledge,
with attention to historical development, of the central texts, beliefs,
ethical understandings, and practices of at least one religious tradition
THEO 267   Jesus Christ   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THEO 100 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course examines the life of Jesus Christ, utilizing the Gospels, the
writings of Paul and other biblical authors, the early ecumenical councils,
and the history of church doctrine, including contemporary scholarship.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Theological Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
Course equivalencies:  THEO104/CATH104   
Outcomes:
This course examines the life of Jesus Christ, utilizing the Gospels, the
writings of Paul and other biblical authors, the early ecumenical councils,
and the history of church doctrine, including contemporary scholarship
THEO 272   Judaism   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THEO 100, THEO 107, or equivalent; please check
requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course provides an introduction to Judaism.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Theological Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Islamic World Studies   
Course equivalencies:  THEO172/THEO272/INTS172   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to name and discuss some of the most impo rtant
Jewish scriptures, articulate the general outline of the historical evolution
of Judaism, and deﬁne and discuss key concepts, terms, values, and
religious practices foundational to Judaism
THEO 276   Black World Religion   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THEO 100, THEO 107, or equivalent; please check
requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course explores the revelatory manner in which the divine comes
to unique presence and expression among African peoples throughout
human history. It will examine the religious experiences and traditions
of: Africa's ancient Nile valley civilizations, long recognized as cradling
the world's spiritual and philosophical wisdom and as influencing the
formative development of Judaism, Christianity, and Islam.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Black
World Studies, Interreligious and Interfaith Studies, African Studies and
the African Diaspora, Black World Studies, Interreligious and Interfaith
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  THEO176 / THEO276/BWS288   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate their knowledge of African peoples' religious
experiences within their various historical and cultural contextsTHEO 278   Religion & Gender   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THEO 100, THEO 107, or equivalent; please check
requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course will study the role of women in at least one (if not more) of
the major world religious traditions.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Theological Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  THEO178/THEO278/WSGS278   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the influence of
religion on gender roles, and how women in the contemporary world are
reinterpreting their religious traditions
THEO 279   Roman Catholicism   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THEO 100 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course provides an introduction to Roman Catholicism.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Theological Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, Italian Studies   
Course equivalencies:  THEO179/THEO279/CATH179   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the most
important Roman Catholic beliefs, the historical evolution of Roman
Catholicism, the key Roman Catholic concepts, terms, values, and
religious practices, and the main lines of current Roman Catholic identity
in today's world
THEO 280   Religion & Interdisciplinary Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
Course topics will rotate to incorporate the study of religion in a variety of
other disciplines. Focus will be on the influence or application of religious
teachings and traditions in the ﬁelds of healthcare, politics, education,
etc.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Theological Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  THEO180 / THEO280   
Outcomes:
Describe the ethical implications of the religious beliefs and traditions of
at least one religion for the primary ﬁeld of study
THEO 281   Christianity Through Time   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THEO 100, THEO 107, or equivalent; please check
requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions   
The course is a survey course in the history of Christian thought. Not
a course in Church history, this is a course whose primary goal is to
investigate the major interactions between Christian thought and practice
and the cultures that it has been a part of in its two thousand year history.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Theological Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, German Studies, Medieval
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  THEO181/ THEO281/CATH181   
Outcomes:
Students will learn to analyze and interpret religious texts, beliefs and
practices using standard scholarly methods and tools

--- Page 223 ---
254  College of Arts and Sciences
THEO 282   Hinduism   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THEO 100, THEO 107, or equivalent; please check
requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course provides an introduction to Hinduism.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Theological Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  THEO196/ASIA196/INTS294   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the most
important Hindu scriptures, the general outline of the historical evolution
of Hinduism, the key Hindu concepts, terms, values, and religious
practices, and the basic narratives and imagery of Hinduism
THEO 293   Christian Marriage   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THEO 100, THEO 107, or equivalent; please check
requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course examines the Christian understanding of marriage.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Theological Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
Course equivalencies:  THEO193/THEO293/CATH193   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of historical &
ethical principles used to evaluate particular issues relevant to the
understanding of the Christian tradition of marriage
THEO 295   Islam   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THEO 100, THEO 107, or equivalent; please check
requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course will provide an introduction to Islam.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Theological Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Arabic Language and Culture, Asian Studies,
Global Studies, Islamic World Studies, Arabic Language and Culture,
Asian Studies, Global Studies, Islamic World Studies   
Course equivalencies:  THEO195/ASIA195/INTS295/IWS195   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the most
important Muslim scriptures, the general outline of the historical
evolution of Islam, the key Islamic concepts, terms, values, and religious
practices, and the diversity within Islam
THEO 297   Buddhism   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THEO 100, THEO 107, or equivalent; please check
requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course provides an introduction to Buddhism.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Theological Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies, Japanese Language
and Culture   
Course equivalencies:  THEO197/ASIA197/INTS297   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the most
important Buddhist scriptures, the general outline of the historical
evolution of Buddhism, including its different major branches, and the key
Buddhist concepts, terms, values, and religious practicesTHEO 299   Religions of Asia   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THEO 100, THEO 107, or equivalent; please check
requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions   
An introductory survey of selected teachings, institutions, and practices
of the great religious traditions of South Asia and East Asia placed in
historical context.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO199/ASIA199/INTS199   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the central texts,
beliefs, ethical understandings, and practices of at least three Asian
religions
THEO 302   Wisdom Literature and Psalms   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THEO 111   
A study of the wisdom literature of the Old Testament, attention to the
nature of the wisdom tradition in Israel; study of the Psalms as the prayer
of Israel.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of central texts,
beliefs, ethical understanding, and practices of Judaism and Christianity
THEO 303   Pentateuch   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THEO 111   
The literary structure of the ﬁrst ﬁve books of the Bible.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of central texts,
beliefs, ethical understanding, and practices of Judaism and Christianity
THEO 304   Israel Conquest to Exile   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THEO 111   
A study of the so-called historical books of the Bible (Joshua, Judges,
Samuel, Kings) with attention to the history of Israel from conquest to
exile.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of central texts,
beliefs, ethical understanding, and practices of Judaism and Christianity
THEO 308   Biblical Hebrew I   (3 Credit Hours)   
The sound, forms and grammar of biblical language. Selected readings
from the Old Testament.
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO308/CLST101   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of Biblical Hebrew
THEO 309   Biblical Hebrew II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THEO 308   
Further study of biblical language. Selected readings from the Old
Testament.
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO309/CLST102   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of Biblical Hebrew
THEO 311   The Meaning of Jesus Christ   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THEO 104   
Interpretations of the person and work of Jesus.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the nature of
Jesus Christ as both human and divine, what this might mean, how this
formulation was derived, and the varieties of understanding of Christ
within the Scriptures, the church, and modern scholarship

--- Page 224 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 255
THEO 313   Gospels of Matthew, Mark & Luke   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THEO 112   
An analysis of the development of the synoptic tradition (the gospels of
Matthew, Mark and Luke).
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the various literary
elements found in these particular gospels
THEO 317   Christian Thought: Ancient-Medieval   (3 Credit Hours)   
The development of various Christian doctrines in light of their historical
milieu during the ﬁrst fourteen centuries of Christian thought.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies, Medieval
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO317/CATH317/MSTU360   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to assess how various conﬁgurations of theological
perspectives can both expand and foreshorten the way human thinking
has gone on
THEO 318   Christian Thought: Reformation to Modern   (3 Credit Hours)   
The development of various Christian doctrines in light of their historical
milieu during the last six centuries of Christian thought.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO318/CATH318   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to assess how various conﬁgurations of theological
perspectives can both expand and foreshorten the way human thinking
has gone on
THEO 330   Liberation Theology   (3 Credit Hours)   
An introduction to the contemporary theologies of liberation emerging in
Latin American, African, and Asian Christian.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, Global Studies, Latin American
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO/INTS/LASP330/PAX332   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of ethical
comprehension, analysis, and decision-making within the context of
select theological and religious traditions
THEO 331   Theology of Secularization   (3 Credit Hours)   
An exploration of the history of secularization and the context it
establishes for American Christianity. Focus on practical issues of
Christian living.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze and interpret various ways in which
religious traditions intersect with contemporary issues
THEO 340   Foundations of Christian Morality   (3 Credit Hours)   
A survey of theological and philosophical issues which shape the
articulation of speciﬁc moral principles.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of ethical
comprehension, analysis, and decision-making within the context of
select theological and religious traditionsTHEO 342   Perspectives on Life and Death   (3 Credit Hours)   
Examination of the exploration of our perception of the life range for
possible reevaluation and rearticulation, in view of modern scientiﬁc
developments.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO342/BIET342   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of ethical
comprehension, analysis, and decision-making within the context of
select theological and religious traditions
THEO 343   Contemporary Christian Sexuality   (3 Credit Hours)   
Examination of inter-religious perspectives in contemporary sexual
ethics.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO343/BIET343   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of ethical
comprehension, analysis, and decision-making within the context of
select theological and religious traditions
THEO 344   Theology and Ecology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Examination of the ecological, ethical and theological analyses of
humanity's relationship to the natural world.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO344/ESP 344/BIET344   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of ethical
comprehension, analysis, and decision-making within the context of
select theological and religious traditions
THEO 348   Supervised Ministry   (3 Credit Hours)   
Placement in a ministerial position, on-site supervision, and biweekly
individual or group meetings with the course director is required.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate how a sacramental system of
aesthetics is often embedded in cultural artifacts
THEO 349   Theological Topics for the Bioethics Capstone   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Two Science courses and two Ethics courses   
The interdisciplinary team-taught Bioethics capstone course examines
a topic in bioethics from both scientiﬁc and ethical points of view.
Topics may include bio-technologies, concepts of race and gender, the
environment, reproduction, and others. This course number provides an
elective for Theology students when the Bioethics capstone's topic is
theological.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the connection between ethical and scientiﬁc
issues with regard to the special topic in theology
THEO 350   Topics in Islam   (3 Credit Hours)   
A deeper and more focused study of signiﬁcant aspects of the religion of
Islam.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies, Islamic World
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  XTHEO350INTS387ASIA350IWS350   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of Islam

--- Page 225 ---
256  College of Arts and Sciences
THEO 352   Topics in Buddhism   (3 Credit Hours)   
A deeper and more focused study of signiﬁcant aspects of Buddhism.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies, Japanese Language
and Culture   
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO352/INTS352/ASIA352   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of Buddhism
THEO 353   Religious Traditions   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course investigates the historical, social, ritual and reflective
positions of one or more religious traditions. It likewise develops the
student's abilities to use contemporary methods of historical, theological,
and social scientiﬁc analysis of religious traditions.
THEO 356   Topics in Judaism   (3 Credit Hours)   
A deeper and more focused study of signiﬁcant aspects of Judaism.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of Judaism
THEO 365   Women, Gender and Embodiment in Islam   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will consider gender both as articulated in normative Islamic
religious and legal systems and as embodied during various historical
periods in a range of Muslim societies. Students will read a number
of the most important academic studies in this ﬁeld and consider
anthropological and cultural materials including ﬁlms and short stories
that disclose Muslim practices and concepts of maleness, femaleness,
and gender relations.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Arabic Language and Culture, Asian Studies,
Global Studies, Islamic World Studies, Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  THEO/ASIA/INTS/WSGS/IWS365   
THEO 366   Contemporary Islamic Thought and Movements   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course will consider contemporary Islamic thought and movements
world-wide. After a brief introduction to Islam and the historical
development of the tradition up to the present, students will learn about
a range of contemporary Muslim intellectual and activist movements and
thinkers through the study of original writings and secondary analysis.
Some major ﬁgures to be considered include: Syed Maududi, Sayyid Qutb,
Fazlur Rahman, and other Muslim intellectuals representing movements
such as Jama'at-i Islami, the Muslim Brotherhood, and Islamic liberalism.
We will focus on the 20th century up to the most current trends. Some of
the theological and social issues that will be discussed are gender, the
ideal political order, Islamic law and its role in society, and pluralism.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies, Islamic World
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO/ASIA/IWS366/INTS366A   
THEO 373   Theology Capstone   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students enrolling in this course must have junior status and be Theology
majors. This 3 credit capstone course gives students an opportunity to
integrate various aspects of their theological education, drawing upon
the major sources of Christian and Catholic tradition, including Scripture,
History, Systematic Theology, and Ethics.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the varied
sources within Christian theological traditions and how to make reasoned
theological arguments
THEO 376   Language and Faith   (3 Credit Hours)   
A cultural approach to the study of religious faith through the framework
of language.THEO 378   Theology and Culture   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course can count as an elective for the major or minor. The course
will be divided into three parts: (1) an exploration of the interaction
between theological reflection & culture; (2) a look at some theological
texts that compare Christian and non-Christian practices and practices
in the U.S. where different cultural understandings interact; (3) a study of
postmodernism.
Outcomes:
A deep level of understanding and of critical thinking with respect to the
subject matter of the course
THEO 382   Readings-Liturgy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Examination of the readings, prayers, songs, rites of contemporary
liturgies. Comparison of these materials with those of traditional liturgies
and evaluation of the underlying principles.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate how a sacramental system of
aesthetics is often embedded in cultural artifacts
THEO 383   Theology Arts & Literature   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Study of theological and religious symbols and themes in modern
literature and/or in the arts.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO383/ENGL383/CATH383   
Outcomes:
The student who successfully completes this course will be able to
demonstrate knowledge about religion and its intersections with selected
contemporary ethical, social, political, economic, or cultural issues
THEO 392   Readings in Theology   (3 Credit Hours)   
A reading course with variable content in the area of theology. Open to
major and non-majors with permission of instructor.
THEO 393   Seminar   (3 Credit Hours)   
An undergraduate seminar course for majors and minors in the Theology
department; variable content, addressing topical issues that are not
covered by the regular offerings at the 300 level.
Outcomes:
Students will gain an in-depth understanding of a selected topic
THEO 395   Theology Tutorial   (3 Credit Hours)   
Tutorials for seniors on selected topics in biblical, systematic, historical
or moral theology.
Outcomes:
Students will gain an in-depth understanding of a selected topic
University Course (UNIV)
UNIV 100   Chicago Summer Leadership Academy: College Prep   (1-4
Credit Hours)   
This is a seminar course for CSLA participants. The course is designed to
advance student's conﬁdence to navigate the college search process and
prepare them to apply and secure admissions to a college of their choice.
Enrollment Conditions: This seminar course is for CSLA participants.
Students in this course will be part of the CSLA program through Student
Transitions and Outreach.
Outcomes:
Upon completion students will have gained knowledge in navigating the
college application process
UNIV 101   First Year Seminar   (1 Credit Hour)   
This class is intended to help ﬁrst year students enhance their academic
skills and social integration into Loyola University Chicago.
Course equivalencies:  UNIV101 / ACUNI 101   

--- Page 226 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 257
UNIV 102   Loyola Seminar   (1 Credit Hour)   
This is a 1-credit, letter-graded, elective, special topics course taught by
faculty or staff experts at Loyola. These small classes are intended to
connect students to a faculty or staff member and their peers t hrough
meaningful discussions on topics of shared interest.
UNIV 103   Orientation to Living Abroad   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Students must be participating in a Loyola Study Abroad Program.
Provides an orientation to living abroad to students in a Loyola Study
Abroad Program. Provides exposure to life and culture in study abroad
setting through lectures, discussions and guided study trips.
Outcomes:
Knowledge of and appreciation for different cultural and living setting
UNIV 110   Exploring the United States through Chicago   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will introduce international students to the culture and
realities of contemporary Chicago and the United States. Enrollment
is limited to participants in the Chicago Center at Loyola University
Program. ESL sessions will be incorporated as needed in class sessions.
Outcomes:
Participate in onsite learning experiences and in a forum to discuss
perspectives on the United States through the lens of their experiences
UNIV 111   Guided Research in American Studies   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of UNIV 110   
Taken in the second semester with the Chicago Center Program, it will
focus on the students' completion of a research project dealing issue in
American Culture. Through in depth research students will identify their
topic, gather information, compose a research paper, and present their
ﬁndings to their classmates. (Other outcomes detailed in syllabus).
Outcomes:
Broaden knowledge of both their own and American culture through
comparative study of a social, political, or economic issue
UNIV 112   Strategies for Learning   (1 Credit Hour)   
This course is designed primarily for ﬁrst and second year students to
strengthen their academic skills. This course provides an opportunity for
students to evaluate their goals and motivation for studying at Loyola
and to develop effective strategies for academic success.
Course equivalencies:  CIEP 112/UNIV 112   
Outcomes:
Students will gain a clear view of their goals and the steps and strategies
needed for achieve academic success
UNIV 113   Critical Skills Seminar   (1 Credit Hour)   
This one-credit course is open to incoming ﬁrst-year STEP students only.
Students will complete assignments related to personal and academic
goals and strategies for achieving academic success.
Course equivalencies:  UNIV 113/CIEP 113   
UNIV 114   Bridge to Loyola Workshop   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
As part of the Bridge to Loyola program this course is designed to
develop critical thinking and effective strategies for academic success.
Restricted to students in the LEAP and STEP programs.
Course equivalencies:  UNIV 114/CIEP 111   
Outcomes:
Students will develop a capacity for critical and ethical judgements,
effective study strategies, an introduction to scientiﬁc inquiry, and an
understanding of the Loyola MissionUNIV 190   Understanding Service and Social Justice   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students contribute 25 hours of service in a community or campus
project, and reflect on those experiences in relation to social justice and
the particular topic of their course section.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will contribute to and understand service in relation to social
justice in a certain topical area
UNIV 201   Transfer Seminar   (1 Credit Hour)   
Enrollment restricted to Transfer Students. This seminar course is
designed for students who transferred to Loyola from other institutions.
Students in this course will develop strategies to succeed academically,
transition smoothly and strengthen their connection with Loyola.
Outcomes:
1) Understand Loyola's mission/identity and participate in the Loyola
Experience; 2) Improve study habits and academic motivation; 3)
Enhance ability to ﬁnd and utilize campus support and resources
UNIV 224   Career & Life Planning Seminar   (3 Credit Hours)   
Unsure of how your classes and previous experiences will turn into
a career? Many students feel unsure about how to plan for life post-
graduation. This seminar will allow you to reflect on who you are as a
person (not just as a particular "major"), as well as how to research and
connect with relevant opportunities and plan effectively for the next
chapter of your life. Highly recommended for 3rd/4th year students.
Clarify career identity and appropriate pathways; develop effective
application materials, networking, and job/internship search skills;
develop plan for next steps.
Course equivalencies:  CPSY 224/UNIV 224   
UNIV 301   Ricci Seminar Rome   (3 Credit Hours)   
A research seminar in which a Ricci Scholar develops a project and
reﬁnes it under the tutelage of a faculty member based in Rome. The
focus of the project will be Rome-, Italy-, or Euro-centered.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
UNIV 302   Ricci Seminar Asia   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Restricted to Ricci Scholar students; UNIV 301 (Can also be
taken as corequisite)   
A research seminar in which a Ricci Scholar develops a project and
reﬁnes it under the tutelage of a faculty member based on location at a
LUC-approved study abroad site in Asia. The focus of the project will be
Asia centered, based on the study abroad location of the Ricci Scholar
student.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Design and conduct original research on a topic selected by student and
approved by the Ricci Scholars Program; Evaluate the merits of different
research methodologies, and be able to adopt or modify existing methods
to do qualitative and quantitative research in different cultural contexts;
Communicate effectively through written reports, oral presentations,
and discussion; Provide constructive feedback to peers and work
collaboratively in a multi-disciplinary setting
UNIV 340   Ricci Scholars Seminar   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  UNIV 301 and UNIV 302   
This course is the culmination of one year junior study abroad experience
of RICCI scholars who have done their two supervised individual research
projects on East (Vietnam) and on West (Italy). In the course, student's
East and West research studies are combined and compared to make a
cohesive ﬁnal report of their ﬁndings.

--- Page 227 ---
258  College of Arts and Sciences
UNIV 370   Responsible Conduct in Research and Scholarship   (0 Credit
Hours)   
Loyola University actively promotes a culture of responsible and ethical
behaviors among all people associated with the University. This includes
the LUC faculty, staff, and students of all levels. This course provides
students with a strong foundation of the basic ethical principles and
professional standards that can then be built upon by future experiences.
Topics include the nine identiﬁed by Ofﬁce of Research Integrity critical
to research activities as well as those of value to scholars here at
LUC. Taught over a three day period, students will be presented with
information and relevant background and given the opportunity to apply
these ethical principles in a small group setting. NOTE: This course
satisﬁes the LUC policy requirements for students that are enrolled in
graduate programs, undergraduate students that are involved in research
activities, and faculty and staff that receive funds from external agencies
that require evidence of ethics training.
UNIV 392   Internship Seminar in Ignatian Praxis   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Approval by the Ofﬁce of Student Transitions and Outreach
Students in this internship course will complete at least 100 internship
hours in Ofﬁce of Student Transition and Outreach programs   
Students reflect on their work experience in the context of Ignatian
critical reflection and will put theory into practice.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
1) Development understanding of reflection on actions and Ignatian
traditions; 2) Enhance connection to the institution through internship
work, and academic and professional learning and development; 3) Foster
critical thinking and reflective writing skills
Urban Studies (URB)
URB 125   Chicago-Growth of a Metropolis   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores the development of Chicago metropolitan region
from the 1830's to the present day. Students will explore the urban area
not only through texts, but also through ﬁeldwork.
Course equivalencies:  SOCL125/URB125   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the geogr aphy,
history and people of the Chicago metropolitan region
URB 201   Social Welfare Policy & Services I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  sophomore standing   
Analysis of institutional structures of welfare as they relate to social
problems. Selected major values and interests in American society are
used to analyze the social welfare institution. Students will be able to
describe and analyze current social welfare policies and social services
within a historical, societal and political context.
Course equivalencies:  SOWK201/URB201   
URB 234   City, Suburbs & Beyond   (3 Credit Hours)   
Study of the historical emergence of cities, focusing on the ecological,
demographic, and organizational processes involved in the continuing
growth and change of metropolitan areas and in the relationship of a
metropolitan area to the surrounding region.
Course equivalencies:  X-SOCL234/URB234   
Outcomes:
Students will understand fundamental facts and theories about the
character and development of cities and urban regionsURB 320   Urban Economics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing, minimum grade of "C-" in ECON 201
and 202   
This course analyzes the economic role and functioning of cities and
examines urban issues such as real estate markets, transportation,
economic development, and crime.
Course equivalencies:  X-ECON320/URB320   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the economic forces that shape urban
agglomerations; Students will understand the economic and ethical
trade-offs of various urban economic policies; They will be able to think
critically about the economic forces that make a city grow and contract
over time
URB 352   Gang Activity & Control   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course examines the emergence of street gangs in American
society with a view toward understanding their structure, characteristics,
purpose and activities, and reviews and evaluates prevention and control
strategies.
Course equivalencies:  CRMJ352/URB352   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the causes of
street gangs, the methods used to control street gangs, and the impact of
street gang activity on society and the criminal justice system
URB 354   Chicago Justice: Criminal Justice System Cook County   (3
Credit Hours)   
This course provides a comprehensive examination of the organization
and functions of the criminal and juvenile justice systems/agencies in
Cook County - the largest jurisdiction of its kind in the U.S.
Course equivalencies:  CRMJ354/URB354   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to describe the organization, functioning, and
challenges facing the justice system and agencies within Cook C ounty,
and discuss how this system relates to criminal justice agencies at the
state and federal level
URB 370   Cultural Diversity   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior Standing   
This course examines economic, social, institutional and politi cal forces
that shape the experiences and life chances of persons within Asian,
Latino, and Native American cultures. Social and economic justice
in relation to diversity will be explored. Students will understand the
relevance of diversity to social work values and interventions.
Course equivalencies:  ASIA/SOWK/URB370/AFR369/SOWK50   
URB 385   The History of Chicago   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course surveys the history of Chicago from its origins to the present,
using the city as a case study of American urbanization.
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST385/URB385   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate historical knowledge of Ch icago's
environmental, economic, social, cultural, and political history, to draw
links between race relations and urban change, and to develop critical
thinking and communication skills
URB 386   American Urban History   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the process and impact of urbanization in North
America from the Precolumbian era to the twenty-ﬁrst century.
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST386/URB386   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate historical knowledge of the
environmental, economic, social, cultural, and political history of North
American cities and develop critical thinking and communication skills

--- Page 228 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 259
URB 397   Urban Studies Research   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior or Senior standing   
In Urban Studies Research, undergraduates work on collaborative,
community-based research projects through CURL (Center for Urban
Research and Learning). The research teams include graduate students,
faculty, and community leaders. This course must be taken concurrently
with SOC/PLSC 335 Students will contribute to a research project that
addresses inequities in urban communities.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Urban Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC397/URB397   
Urdu (URDU)
URDU 101   Introductory Urdu I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to the Urdu language. No previous
knowledge is assumed. It also introduces the Urdu script.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Islamic World Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be introduced to the spoken language and the script in
which Urdu is written
URDU 102   Introductory Urdu II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  URDU 101   
This course is a continuation of URDU 101. The course imparts basic
grammatical structures and vocabulary of Urdu as well as greater
familiarity in reading and writing using the Urdu script.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Islamic World Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to develop basic proﬁciency in the language and will
be able to speak, read and write in simple sentences at the elementary
level
Women and Gender Studies (WSGS)
WSGS 101   Introduction to WSGS from a Global Perspective   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This is an introduction to the interdisciplinary ﬁelds of both Women's
Studies and Gender Studies which explore the ways that sex and
gender manifest themselves in social, cultural, and political arenas.
It draws upon scholarship in women's studies, masculinities studies,
and queer studies which themselves draw upon a variety of intellectual
perspectives, including historical, psychological, rhetorical, sociological,
literary, and biological.
Knowledge Area:  Foundational Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
students will demonstrate understanding of historical developments,
key concepts, theories and themes in women's studies and gender
studies, the impact that gender can have on social, cultural, political and
economic material conditionsWSGS 201   Contemporary Issues in WSGS   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100, PLSC 102, PSYC 100, SOCL 101, WSGS 101, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course explores issues in women's studies, feminism, and gender
studies from the perspective of a particular discipline, depending on
the faculty member teaching the course. This may, for example, include
Communication, English, History, Sociology, or Theology.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  WOST201/WSGS201   
Outcomes:
Students will examine the subjects of women and gender, as well as
the challenges of conducting feminist or gender scholarship, within the
discipline and how new research changes or transforms that scholarship
WSGS 297   Topics in WSGS   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course allows students to explore intermediate courses or seminars
focused on the intersection of gender, sexuality, race, class, and other
categories of power, privilege, and oppression.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
WSGS 330   History of Feminist Thought and Social Action   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course focuses on the history and development of feminist thought
and activism since the late eighteenth century. Attention goes beyond
just U.S. and European feminist history, exploring Indigenous, Black, and
postcolonial feminism to investigate their unique feminist ideas and the
challenges they pose to "traditional" feminist thought and action.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X - WSGS 330 / HIST 339F   
Outcomes:
Students will learn to identify key concepts, thinkers, activists; analyze
and critique some of the major works; and develop an integrated
understanding of the history of feminist thought, broadly conceived
WSGS 350   Global Feminisms   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  WSGS 101 or WSGS 201   
This course offers critical and theoretical tools to evaluate feminist
theories by women of color in the global South. Adopting a decolonial,
anti-racist approach, the course evaluates how women and gender
relations are affected by economic, cultural, and political changes related
to the racial regimes of globalization and migratory movements.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will acquire and utilize key theoretical concepts in the
study of feminisms, race theory, border studies, postcolonial studies,
transnationalism, and migration studies
WSGS 360   Migration, Identity, Sexuality   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  WSGS 101 or WSGS 201   
In this seminar WSGS course we will explore how crossing borders,
identity politics, and sexuality intersect to produce a rich and necessary
conversation on contemporary global immigration issues. We will explore
the gendered dynamics and experiences of recent immigrants.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
Acquire and utilize key theoretical concepts in the study of borders,
identity politics, transnationalism, and sexuality from an intersectional
lens

--- Page 229 ---
260  African Studies and the African Diaspora
WSGS 370   Sexual Assault Advocacy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  WSGS 101 or WSGS 201   
This course provides speciﬁc skills of support and advocacy services
to sexual assault survivors. Students will gain an understanding of the
impact of sexual assault on victims, the social and cultural context in
which sexual assault occurs, and the roles systems play to both support
and inhibit survivors recovery.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
Students who successfully complete the course may be eligible to serve
as Loyola University Chicago sexual assault advocates
WSGS 375   Masculinity Studies: Equity, Race, Transformation   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  WSGS 101   
This course highlights the intersectional exploration of how masculinity
is embodied, experienced, and replicated in the United States
and globally. With this transnational lens, students gain a better
understanding of contemporary global masculinity sociocultural issues
and concerns which include race/racism, "angry white men, " and the
"crisis of masculinity. "
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  WSGS 375/WSGS 475   
Outcomes:
Students will acquire and utilize key theoretical concepts in Masculinity
studies from an international lens; Students will apply a wide critical
terminology to literary texts and visual/cultural phenomena globally
WSGS 380   Queer Theory: Beyond the Binary   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  WSGS 101 or 201   
This course maps the ﬁeld of Queer Theory from an interdisciplinary,
global perspective in order to cover a wide range of theoretical
and disciplinary approaches (race theory, transnational theory,
postmodernism, Latinx-American Studies, among others) and
interpretative applications (ﬁlm, literature).
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to identify key concepts and thinkers of this
influential ﬁeld of study; they will develop an intersectional, global
understanding of this ﬁeld of critical theory
WSGS 388   Women's Studies Practicum   (3 Credit Hours)   
This supervised ﬁeld experience uses experiential learning at a wide
variety uses experiential learning at a variety of women's political, cultural
or educational organization as the basis for learning and reﬁning skills
which cab beneﬁt gender equity.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  WOST388/WSGS388   
Outcomes:
Students demonstrate skill proﬁciency, professional conduct, and
systematic reflection on their experience; Students learn about public and
private sector responses to women's issues and concerns
WSGS 389   Independent Study   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
This course consists of independent research or engaged learning in a
speciﬁc area of WSGS; work must be completed under the supervision of
a WSGS faculty member.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain a deeper understanding of a speciﬁc WSGS topic
through research, service, reading, or other mode of learning; The product
of this work will vary depending on the interests of the studentWSGS 390   Directed Readings Women Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
An independent program of reading and research arranged between
the student and the supervising faculty member in the student's major
department. Students will complete a ﬁnal research project integrating
their major ﬁelds with women's studies. Permission of women's studies
director is required.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  WOST390/WSGS390   
WSGS 391   WSGS Methodologies   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  WSGS 101 or WSGS 201, and WSGS 330   
This course is part of a two-semester sequence for the ﬁnal year of the
WSGS major and minor. In this course we review several approaches to
feminist research methods and consider ways to put them into practice,
individually or combined with other methods. Enrollment by permission.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will produce a project proposal that (1) demonstrates an
interdisciplinary approach; (2) draws on theory and scholarship in WSGS;
and (3) reflects the use of feminist methodologies in practice
WSGS 397   Special Topics in WSGS   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course allows students to explore advanced courses or seminars
focused on the intersection of gender, sexuality, race, class, and other
categories of power, privilege, and oppression.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  WOST397/WSGS397   
Outcomes:
Students demonstrate an understanding of a unique topic in wome n's
studies
WSGS 398   Women's Studies Internship   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course uses supervised project-based experiential learning to allow
students the opportunity to apply feminist analysis and practical skills to
a student-designed project that will be completed within the timeframe of
a course term.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  WOST398/WSGS398   
Outcomes:
Students learn application of feminist concepts and principles to
pragmatic outcomes; leadership, planning, time management, and
assessment skills
WSGS 399   WSGS Capstone   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  WSGS 330 and WSGS 391; Enrollment by permission   
This is a project-oriented course that represents the culmination of
the WSGS major. Students build on their work in WSGS 391/WSGS
Methodologies to complete a project under the direction of a faculty or
community organization mentor, either individually or as a group.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  WOST399/WSGS399   
Outcomes:
Students will complete a project that (1) demonstrates an
interdisciplinary approach; (2) draws on theory and scholarship in WSGS;
and (3) reflects the intentional use of feminist methodologies in practice
African Studies and the African
Diaspora
African Studies and the African Diaspora taps a wide range of academic
pursuits, intellectual methods and cultural traditions to give our
majors and minors a broad perspective of African experiences—both

--- Page 230 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 261
historic, contemporary, local and global. Our students are informed
and knowledgeable in dialogues concerning the socio-political, literary,
cultural, psychological, and spiritual dimensions of how the African
experience has influenced every aspect of the world we live in. This
ranges from the history, politics and culture (among other aspects) of
African countries, to the influence and lives of people in the African
diaspora around the world, including black life in the United States.
Numerous opportunities exist for our students to study abroad in
Africa, Latin America, or the Caribbean, further enabling them to expand
their international and multicultural awareness of issues relative
to globalization and social justice. Internships or service-learning
programs that foster experiential learning are also available. The
Black World Studies program was inaugurated in 1971 as Loyola's
ﬁrst interdisciplinary program. It uniquely advanced the university's
transformative educational mission for over four decades. As agents of
social change, our students strive to apply their knowledge of the global
black experience in ways that help make our world a home for all. In
keeping with changes in the various disciplines that study the African and
diaspora experience, in 2013 the program evolved into the new African
Studies and the African Diaspora program.
Undergraduate Programs
•African Studies and the African Diaspora (BA)  (p. 261)
•African Studies and the African Diaspora Minor  (p. 262)
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
African Studies and the African Diaspora
(AFR)
AFR 102   Introduction to Black World Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
Introduction to Black World Studies examines several cultures within
the Black world, across various countries and regions around the globe.
Students will be familiarized with the impact of tradition, religion,
oppression, popular culture, art, memory and speciﬁc aspects of trans-
generational practices on these cultures as well as the influences of
colonialism upon African peoples and the latter upon the former.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora   
AFR 295   Directed Readings in Black World Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course allows students to engage in a directed self-study of a topic
in the realm of African Studies and the African Diaspora that is not
covered in other courses offered in the program. Students will work with
the AFR Director or another advisor to develop their own class readings
and research assignment. Director approval is required for this course.
AFR 397   Capstone/Internship   (3 Credit Hours)   
This capstone course may be completed in a variety of ways. This
includes an internship at a business or organization that is related to the
program, or a study abroad semester related to the program. Internships
require a minimum of 10 hours/week veriﬁed service hours over the 15
week semester, amounting to 3 credit hours. Students may also make a
300 level AFR course into a "Capstone" by adding an additional, in-depth
research assignment approved by the course instructor and the program
director. Director approval is required for this course.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   African Studies and the African
Diaspora (BA)
African Studies and the African Diaspora taps a wide range of academic
pursuits, intellectual methods and cultural traditions to give our
majors and minors a broad perspective of African experiences—both
historic, contemporary, local and global. Our students are informed
and knowledgeable in dialogues concerning the socio-political, literary,
cultural, psychological, and spiritual dimensions of how the African
experience has influenced every aspect of the world we live in. This
ranges from the history, politics and culture (among other aspects) of
African countries, to the influence and lives of people in the African
diaspora around the world, including black life in the United States.
Numerous opportunities exist for our students to study abroad in
Africa, Latin America, or the Caribbean, further enabling them to expand
their international and multicultural awareness of issues relative to
globalization and social justice. Internships or service-learning programs
that foster experiential learning are also available.
The Black World Studies program was inaugurated in 1971 as Loyola's
ﬁrst interdisciplinary program. It uniquely advanced the university's
transformative educational mission for over four decades. As agents of
social change, our students strive to apply their knowledge of the global
black experience in ways that help make our world a home for all. In
keeping with changes in the various disciplines that study the African and
diaspora experience, in 2013 the program evolved into the new African
Studies and the African Diaspora program.
Related Programs
Minor
•Race Ethnicity Interdisciplinary Minor  (p. 655)
Curriculum
The African Studies and the African Diaspora major requires 11 courses
(33 credit hours):
Code Title Hours
FoundationsAFR 102Introduction to Black World Studies (Required
Courses)3
AFR 397 Capstone/Internship 3Culture Course  13
Research Course  13Concentration12
Select one of three concentrations: History; Literature & Arts; OR Social
SciencesAt least two courses must be 200-level or higher and one must be
300-level or higher.History ConcentrationHIST 209Islamic History: Themes & IssuesHIST 210 Latin American History: Themes & IssuesHIST 213African History: Themes & IssuesHIST 350 Colonial Latin AmericaHIST 351Latin American Independence, 1750-1830HIST 363 Civil War & Reconstruction 1850-1877HIST 374Black PoliticsHIST 380 Introduction to African-American History

--- Page 231 ---
262  African Studies and the African Diaspora MinorHIST 380AIslam in the African-American ExperienceHIST 381 Rebels & Reformers in U.S. HistoryLiterature & Arts ConcentrationENGL 282 African-American LiteratureENGL 282BAfrican-American Literature 1700-1900ENGL 282C African-American Literature since 1900ENGL 316CCaribbean Literature in English Since 1900ENGL 384 Studies in African American LiteratureENGL 384BStudies in African American Literature, 1700-1900ENGL 384C Studies in African American Literature Since 1900FNAR 251African-American ArtFREN 309 Francophone LiteratureFREN 390French & Francophone Cultures & CivilizationsMUSC 109 Jazz EnsembleMUSC 156Intro to JazzTHTR 396 Seminar in Theatre IISocial Sciences ConcentrationANTH 100 Globalization and Local CulturesANTH 105Human Biocultural DiversityANTH 211 Peoples of Latin AmericaANTH 213Culture in AfricaANTH 214 African-American AnthropologyANTH 245Gender in Deep TimeANTH 332 Language, Race, and InequalityCJC 372Race, Ethnicity, and Criminal JusticePLSC 102 International Relations in an Age of GlobalizationPLSC 218African-American PoliticsPLSC 340 International Relations of AfricaPLSC 342African PoliticsPSYC 360 Understanding PrejudiceSOCL 101Society in a Global AgeSOCL 122 Race and Ethnic RelationsSOCL 125Chicago: Urban MetropolisSOCL 228 Sociology of the African-American ExperienceSOCL 250Inequality in SocietyElectives  29CIEP 333Education of The Urban ChildCOMM 272 Intercultural CommunicationFNAR 355Art of AfricaMUSC 104 Gospel ChoirSOWK 370Power, Oppression, Privilege, and Social JusticeTotal Hours33
1Students can take any Culture and Methods courses from any of the
departments associated with the African Studies and African Diaspora
program.  Students should consult their advisor before registering for
this requirement.
2Three additional AFR courses that have not been taken from the
selected concentration.  Of the three AFR elective courses selected, at
least one must be 200-level or higher and at least one further course
must be 300-level or higher.Transfer-Student Residence Requirement
At least 17 credit hours of AFR-BA requirements must be completed at
Loyola.
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Upon successful completion of the program, our students can
recognize, identify, and appreciate the unique gifts and enriching
contributions of African and African descended people, communities
and countries in the areas of literature, politics, spirituality, morality,
psychology, philosophy, and the arts. In service of humanity, our
students are able to skillfully communicate their knowledge and
values to peoples of all cultural backgrounds, nurturing within them
a spirit of tolerance, accommodation, and respectful inclusion that
grounds a more just, humane, and peaceful social order. Differences
with regard to race, gender, sexual orientation, culture, ethnicity, and
religion are viewed and afﬁrmed as valuable. Our students are able to
reasonably discuss Africa as the cradle of humanity and civilization,
locate African and African influenced culture in space and time
from its earliest beginnings, and describe the varied ways in which
African people’s cultural identity and gifts have come to expression
across global communities for centuries. They are knowledgeable
about the liberation struggles of African and diaspora communities
and the inspirational impact these struggles have exerted globally
on other civil and human rights movements. They understand the
history of enslavement of Africans in the Western hemisphere and
the European colonization of Africa as this history relates to current
issues of institutional racism and social inequality in the US, Africa,
and elsewhere. From their elevated perspective, our students view
African descended peoples as actors or agents of justice rather than
as helpless victims of injustice on the stage of history, recognizing
that the primary reality is not what oppressors have done to blacks
but what blacks have done to resist, counter, and overcome their
oppressors' power to enslave, exploit, defame, and dominate.
African Studies and the African
Diaspora Minor
African Studies and the African Diaspora taps a wide range of academic
pursuits, intellectual methods and cultural traditions to give our
majors and minors a broad perspective of African experiences—both
historic, contemporary, local and global. Our students are informed
and knowledgeable in dialogues concerning the socio-political, literary,

--- Page 232 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 263
cultural, psychological, and spiritual dimensions of how the African
experience has influenced every aspect of the world we live in. This
ranges from the history, politics and culture (among other aspects) of
African countries, to the influence and lives of people in the African
diaspora around the world, including black life in the United States.
Numerous opportunities exist for our students to study abroad in
Africa, Latin America, or the Caribbean, further enabling them to expand
their international and multicultural awareness of issues relative to
globalization and social justice. Internships or service-learning programs
that foster experiential learning are also available.
The Black World Studies program was inaugurated in 1971 as Loyola's
ﬁrst interdisciplinary program. It uniquely advanced the university's
transformative educational mission for over four decades. As agents of
social change, our students strive to apply their knowledge of the global
black experience in ways that help make our world a home for all. In
keeping with changes in the various disciplines that study the African and
diaspora experience, in 2013 the program evolved into the new African
Studies and the African Diaspora program.
Related Programs
Major
•African Studies and the African Diaspora (BA)  (p. 261)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Required CourseAFR 102Introduction to Black World Studies3
Electives  112ANTH 100Globalization and Local CulturesANTH 105 Human Biocultural DiversityANTH 211Peoples of Latin AmericaANTH 213 Culture in AfricaANTH 214African-American AnthropologyANTH 245 Gender in Deep TimeANTH 332Language, Race, and InequalityCJC 372 Race, Ethnicity, and Criminal JusticeANTH 361Issues Cultural AnthropologyCOMM 272 Intercultural CommunicationENGL 282BAfrican-American Literature 1700-1900ENGL 282C African-American Literature since 1900ENGL 316CCaribbean Literature in English Since 1900ENGL 384 Studies in African American LiteratureENGL 384BStudies in African American Literature, 1700-1900FREN 309 Francophone LiteratureFREN 390French & Francophone Cultures & CivilizationsFNAR 251 African-American ArtFNAR 355Art of AfricaHIST 209 Islamic History: Themes & IssuesHIST 210Latin American History: Themes & IssuesHIST 213 African History: Themes & IssuesHIST 350Colonial Latin AmericaHIST 363 Civil War & Reconstruction 1850-1877HIST 374Black PoliticsHIST 380 Introduction to African-American HistoryHIST 380AIslam in the African-American ExperienceHIST 381 Rebels & Reformers in U.S. HistoryMUSC 104Gospel ChoirMUSC 109 Jazz EnsembleMUSC 156Intro to JazzPLSC 102 International Relations in an Age of GlobalizationPLSC 218African-American PoliticsPLSC 340 International Relations of AfricaPLSC 342African PoliticsPSYC 360 Understanding PrejudiceSOCL 101Society in a Global AgeSOCL 122 Race and Ethnic RelationsSOCL 125Chicago: Urban MetropolisSOCL 228 Sociology of the African-American ExperienceSOCL 250Inequality in SocietySOWK 370 Power, Oppression, Privilege, and Social JusticeTHTR 395Seminar in TheatreTotal Hours15
1Two (2) of the AFR electives must be from a single academic
department.  One (1) course must be 200-level or higher and one (1)
must be 300-level or higher.
Transfer-Student Residency Requirement
At least 8 credit hours of AFR-MINR requirements must be completed at
Loyola.
Learning Outcomes
•Upon successful completion of the program, our students can
recognize, identify, and appreciate the unique gifts and enriching
contributions of African and African descended people, communities
and countries in the areas of literature, politics, spirituality, morality,
psychology, philosophy, and the arts. In service of humanity, our
students are able to skillfully communicate their knowledge and
values to peoples of all cultural backgrounds, nurturing within them
a spirit of tolerance, accommodation, and respectful inclusion that
grounds a more just, humane, and peaceful social order. Differences
with regard to race, gender, sexual orientation, culture, ethnicity, and
religion are viewed and afﬁrmed as valuable. Our students are able to
reasonably discuss Africa as the cradle of humanity and civilization,
locate African and African influenced culture in space and time
from its earliest beginnings, and describe the varied ways in which
African people’s cultural identity and gifts have come to expression
across global communities for centuries. They are knowledgeable
about the liberation struggles of African and diaspora communities
and the inspirational impact these struggles have exerted globally
on other civil and human rights movements. They understand the
history of enslavement of Africans in the Western hemisphere and
the European colonization of Africa as this history relates to current
issues of institutional racism and social inequality in the US, Africa,
and elsewhere. From their elevated perspective, our students view
African descended peoples as actors or agents of justice rather than
as helpless victims of injustice on the stage of history, recognizing
that the primary reality is not what oppressors have done to blacks
but what blacks have done to resist, counter, and overcome their
oppressors' power to enslave, exploit, defame, and dominate.

--- Page 233 ---
264  Anthropology
Anthropology
About Us
Anthropology is a discipline that uniquely bridges the social and natural
sciences. Students seeking a BA, BS, or minor in anthropology will study
the diversity of humankind as manifest through time and across the
globe. The scope of anthropology is vast, and is divided traditionally into
four major subﬁelds, each of which contribute distinct perspect ives on
the issues of what makes us human:
•Archaeology  focuses on understanding human behavior through the
study of material culture recovered from the past.
•Biological anthropology  explores evolution, adaptation, and variation
in past and modern human and primate populations.
•Cultural anthropology  investigates contemporary human cultures and
the diversity of human social institutions.
•Linguistic anthropology  focuses on human language and
communication, and their interrelationship with culture.
Together, these branches of study will inform students about modern
human biological and cultural diversity, as well as our evolutionary
origins, thereby enhancing students' understanding of the past, present
and future of the human species.
The Anthropology Department offers a Bachelor or Arts in Anthropology, a
Bachelor of Science in Anthropology, an anthropology minor, as well as a
combined major in Sociology/Anthropology leading to a Bachelor of Arts
in Sociology/Anthropology.  The department boasts a variety of special
resources for students, including a biological anthropology laboratory;
archaeology laboratory; anthropometric, photographic and bioplastic
research material; and an ethnographic museum collection.
There is also an active Chardin Anthropology Club  (https://www.luc.edu/
anthropology/chardin.shtml/ ) which organizes anthropology-related
activities, guest speakers and ﬁeld trips for interested majors.
Undergraduate Programs
•Anthropology (BA)  (p. 272)
•Anthropology (BS)  (p. 273)
•Anthropology Minor  (p. 275)
•Honors in Anthropology  (p. 275)
•Sociology-Anthropology (BA)  (p. 669)
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.Anthropology
ANTH 100   Globalization and Local Cultures   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines anthropological approaches to social and cultural
changes associated with globalization, particularly how global patterns of
inequality profoundly impact people's lives.
Knowledge Area:  Foundational Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Asian
Studies, Global Studies, Human Services, International Business   
Course equivalencies:  ANTH100/271/INTS271   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of relationships between
historic and contemporary global processes, especially ways
globalization influences inequality and peoples' social, symbolic, material,
political, and economic existence
ANTH 101   Human Origins   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 101 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course focuses on the biocultural evolution of our species, Homo
sapiens. It addresses the basic human desire for self-understanding.
We explore what it means to be human through the use of genetics,
non-human primates, and the fossil record. Each section of the course
contributes to an overall understanding of human origins and the process
of evolution.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Scientiﬁc Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Outcomes:
By the end of the semester students will have a better understanding
of human nature, our relationship to the world around us, and our
interactions with each other
ANTH 102   Culture, Society, and Diversity   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100, PLSC 102, PSYC 100, SOCL 101, WSGS 101, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course introduces the anthropological study of living people, or
cultural anthropology, with particular focus on how people understand,
act in, and transform their worlds. Students will also consider how
anthropology can help us think about our own society and what it means
to be human in different times and places.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services, International Business   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate ways that central concepts of
cultural anthropology help us understand cultural diversity; learn how to
think critically about various cultures (including their own); and be aware
of the ethical dimensions of research with living people
ANTH 103   Biological Background Human Social Behavior   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 101 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course examines possible biological bases of modern human
behavior, from a scientiﬁc and multi-disciplinary perspective, to explore
questions regarding what comprises "human nature".
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Scientiﬁc Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of how science is
conducted, as well as interactions between science and culture, in the
context of how evolutionary approaches to animal behavior may be
applied to the study of human behavior

--- Page 234 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 265
ANTH 104   The Human Ecological Footprint   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 101 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course is an introduction to global human ecology and concentrates
on how we as humans affect global ecosystems and how these changes
can impact our behavior, health, economics, and politics.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Scientiﬁc Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics, Global Studies, Peace, Justice, and
Conflict Studies, Urban Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH104ESP104PAX104INTS102   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to draw connections between basic ecological
processes and the global patterns of human population growth, health
and disease, inequality and poverty, subsistence strategies, and land use
and technology
ANTH 105   Human Biocultural Diversity   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 101 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course examines human variation through a biocultural approach,
with speciﬁc attention paid to historical and contemporary ideas of
race.We explore genetics and how evolution by natural selection has
favored important adaptations, how those speciﬁc adaptations have
helped humans migrate and survive across the planet's habitats, and
socio-cultural and scientiﬁc ideas about race that have resulted in
inequalities.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Scientiﬁc Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora,
Bioethics, Neuroscience, Race and Ethnicity   
Course equivalencies:  X-BIET 105/ANTH 105   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of how biocultural approaches
help us understand human variation, with speciﬁc attention paid to skin
color and the idea of race; Students will learn how scientiﬁc racism in
anthropology contributed to our ideas of race, and how that can be seen
in contemporary US society
ANTH 106   Sex, Science and Anthropological Inquiry   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 101 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course examines sex utilizing a scientiﬁc and anthropological
lens. Anthropology brings a unique perspective to the study of sex by
examining it across cultures and through an evolutionary perspective.
In this class, we will travel around the world and through deep time to
examine how sex is shaped by biological, cultural, and political factors.
Topics include sex, sexuality, sexual orientation, gender, evolution,
reproductive biology, parenting, sex work, and sexually transmitted
infections.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Scientiﬁc Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics, Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH 106/WOST 106/WSGS106   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the intersection
of sexology and anthropology, an evolutionary perspective on sex,
the physiological and anatomical aspects of male and female sexual
systems, a comparative view of human sexuality across the life course,
and how globalization is influencing sex and genderANTH 107   Ancient Worlds   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  HIST 101, HIST 102, HIST 103, HIST 104, or equivalent;
please check requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course explores societies in the near and distant past, with an
emphasis on examining cultures left out of standard US and world history
textbooks.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Historical Knowledge   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to: 1) describe the early history and scientiﬁc
foundations of archaeology; 2) explain important developments in human
history; 3) apply their knowledge to decolonize world history
ANTH 203   Violence, Social Suffering, and Justice   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100, PLSC 102, PSYC 100, SOCL 101, WSGS 101, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This class investigates violence, suffering and justice through an
ethnographic and cross-cultural perspective. It asks, how are overt forms
of violence related to larger social structures which produce less visible
forms of suffering? How are violence and suffering related to other socio-
cultural phenomena such as race, gender, sexuality and identity?
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Peace, Justice, and Conflict
Studies, Race and Ethnicity, Women & Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will understand: the ethnographic analysis of violence and
social suffering; political and economic contexts of violence, including
colonialism, globalization, racism, and poverty; movements for justice
and safety
ANTH 205   Gender in Cross-Cultural Perspective   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores a broad range of cultural expectations for gender
diversity and the experiences of women in different cultures.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH205/WOST205/WSGS205   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of how categories
and concepts of sex and gender are culturally constructed and reflect
wide variation both historically and cross-culturally
ANTH 207   Economies, Culture, and Development   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100 or ANTH 102   
The course explores different types of and ideas about exchange,
economies, and development in cross-cultural perspective and through
ethnography.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Outcomes:
The course will help students learn about (1) the development of social
thought about non-Western economic activity; (2) the key theories
from and debates within Economic Anthropology; (3) contemporary
ethnography about economies and development; and (4) ways to think
critically about and apply course concepts

--- Page 235 ---
266  Anthropology
ANTH 208   Language and Identity   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100, PLSC 102, PSYC 100, SOCL 101, WSGS 101, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course will examine how language both reflects and helps
constitute identity in social and linguistic interaction. Presenting a broad
introduction, this course will address complex and often intersecting
relationships between language and gender, race, class, place, age, and
social practice, using case studies from around the world.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Race and Ethnicity   
Outcomes:
Students will learn how language is central to the expression and
interpretation of social and cultural identities, and to human experiences
of diversity
ANTH 210   Visual Representation of Culture   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course deals with how human cultural identities are represented
through the construction of both moving and static visual images.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH210/IFMS210   
Outcomes:
Students will gain critical skills resulting in greater visual literacy
regarding how constructed visual images are used to represent cultures
ANTH 211   Peoples of Latin America   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course offers an anthropological overview of the major cultures and
cultural regions of contemporary Latin America.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Global
Studies, Latin American Studies, Race and Ethnicity   
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH211/INTS211/LASP211   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the basic cultural processes that led to
the formation of the socio-political landscape of contemporary Latin
American
ANTH 212   Peoples of Native North America   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course considers post-contact ethnography including key
contemporary issues among indigenous North American peoples
including Indian-white relations, assimilation, genocide, revitalization
movements, sovereignty, environmentalism, urbanization, and native
identity.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to describe the pattern and basis of cultural
diversity among native North American peoples and their historical
relationships with Euro-American colonists
ANTH 213   Culture in Africa   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course takes an interdisciplinary perspective, and includes
discussion of African history, political economy, and contemporary forms
of social life and culture. It also examines intellectual and historical
trajectories informing how knowledge about Africa was and is produced.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Global
Studies, Race and Ethnicity   
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH213/BWS 213/INTS214   
Outcomes:
Students will acquire a comprehensive grasp of signiﬁcant issues in
contemporary Africa, their historical relevance, and social and cultural
impactsANTH 214   African-American Anthropology   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course offers an historical and contemporary exploration of various
efforts undertaken by African Americans and their supporters to achieve
racial parity, social justice and equality with other Americans, from the
early presence of Africans in the Americas to the present period.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora   
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH214/BWS 214   
Outcomes:
Students will understand landmark legal cases brought to US courts
of law by African Americans and their supporters and strengthen their
critical thinking and writing skills on these and related topics
ANTH 215   Contemporary Japanese Culture   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course critically evaluates popular and scholarly characterizations
and theories about Japan through investigation of ethnicity, gender
roles, language, demographic change, and the impact and role of popular
culture.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies, Japanese Language
and Culture   
Course equivalencies:  ANTH215ASIA361INTS215ASIA215   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an awareness of how Japanese
values and behavior are influenced by culture and history, an
understanding of the relationships among cultural, economic, and social
forces, and of contemporary social diversity
ANTH 216   Cultures of Migration   (3 Credit Hours)   
Using theoretical, ethnographic, and autobiographical literature from
different world regions, we will explore three central questions: 1) How do
people make the decision to move? 2) How do political policies structure
the life chances of im/migrants in the "global north"? 3) How do im/
migrants transform their own life situations and communities?
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Italian American Studies, Latin
American Studies, Race and Ethnicity   
Outcomes:
Students will understand: an anthropological approach to the study
of migration; leading theories of migration; contemporary migration
patterns; im/migrant labor; factors that shape the formation of im/
migrant communities
ANTH 217   Mexican Culture & Heritage   (3 Credit Hours)   
In this class, students become familiar with Mexico and its people as we
explore Mexican history, contemporary Mexico, and Mexican migration
to the United States. At each juncture, we consider how sociocultural
developments shaped Mexican society in the context of the region and
the world.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Latin American Studies, Race and
Ethnicity   
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH217/INTS217/LASP217   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to explain concepts such as colonialism,
neocolonialism, globalization, and migration through their application to
Mexican culture and history

--- Page 236 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 267
ANTH 220   Contemporary Cultures of the Middle East   (3 Credit Hours)   
Focusing on the culturally diverse region of the Middle East, the course
considers historical dynamics, diversity of religious orientations, gender
and ethics relations, nation-building strategies, and expressive arts
(architecture, ﬁlm, literature and media), from the Middle East.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Arabic Language and Culture, Global Studies,
Islamic World Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH220/IWS220/INTS222   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the hi story,
geography, religious, cultural and ethnic diversity of the Middle East as
well as the major ethnographic themes and scholarly debates concerning
the area
ANTH 222   Culture in Contemporary Europe   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores culture in contemporary Europe from an
ethnographic perspective. Topics include recent developments in
European nationalisms; the EU and Europeanization; (im)migration and
integration; family and gender; production and branding; international
tourism; and the politics of language in both 'old' and 'new' Europe.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies, European
Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the role of culture in European current events,
appreciate the challenges facing the European Union, and articulate
connections between European history and contemporary European and
global politics
ANTH 224   Social Movements, Culture, and Activism   (3 Credit Hours)   
This class examines social movements and activism from an
ethnographic perspective. Case studies will examine movements across
the globe. Topics to analyze include: what socio-cultural contexts shape,
and are shaped by, social movements? How do social movements
organize themselves, and what meanings or belief systems do they
appeal to?
Outcomes:
familiarizing students with the ethnographic analysis of social
movements; analyzing the socio-cultural effects of global commodity
flows, secularization, environmental pollution, corporate power, migration
and other political issues; examining how people resist, reproduce and
alter relations of power; and introducing students to the broader ﬁeld of
political anthropology
ANTH 225   Museum Cultures   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores the museum as a dynamic site of cultural
production and consumption. It examines the historical and
contemporary relationships between museums, anthropology, and
material culture, particularly the broader socio-cultural context of
collecting from and representing cultures. Students will visit, discuss, and
critique exhibitions in Chicago-based museums.
Outcomes:
Students will gain knowledge of museums as sites of anthropological
study and practice, particularly the formation, history, and use of
anthropological collections, and cultural representations
ANTH 231   Linguistic Anthropology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100 or ANTH 102   
This course introduces the subﬁeld of linguistic anthropology through a
survey of topics, including linguistic relativity, linguistic patterning and
structure, nonverbal communication, indexicality, and linguistic diversity
and inequality.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of the historical, scientiﬁc,
methodological, and analytical foundations of linguistic anthropologyANTH 241   Principles of Archaeology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 101 or ANTH 104   
Introduction to the ethical principles and scientiﬁc methods used to
investigate the archaeological record, including issues of stewardship,
community collaboration, research design, ﬁeldwork strategies, materials
analysis, and archaeological interpretation.
Outcomes:
Students will able to explain the basic methods and theory of the
archaeological process; Students will also be to apply their knowledge to
craft an archaeological research design
ANTH 242   Mesoamerican Archaeology and Survivance   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores the cultures and peoples of Mesoamerica (Mexico,
Guatemala, Belize, Honduras, El Salvador) in long-term perspective, with
emphasis on Indigenous survivance and heritage. Cultures examined
include the Mayas, Olmecs, Teotihuacanos, Zapotecs, and Mexicas
(Aztecs).
Interdisciplinary Option:  Latin American Studies, Race and Ethnicity   
Course equivalencies:  ANTH242/LASP216   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to: 1) deﬁne what is meant by Mesoamerica; 2)
identify how Mesoamerican heritage connects to contemporary nations
and descendants; 3) explain key themes in Mesoamerican archaeology
ANTH 243   North American Archaeology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 101 or ANTH 104   
This course surveys archaeological evidence in North America with
focus on regional patterns of indigenous adaptation and explanations for
prehistoric culture change.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to describe the chronological pattern and regional
diversity in the cultural evolution of prehistoric societies in North
American from ice-age colonization to European contact
ANTH 244   Historical Archaeology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 101 or ANTH 104; Recommended: ANTH 241   
Historical archaeology merges the study of documentary records with
material remains to understand the overlaps, gaps, and contradictions in
narratives about the human experience. This course is an introduction to
the methods of historical archaeology, including issues of perspective,
coloniality, and silencing that shape our understanding of history.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to 1) describe how archaeology and anthropology
complement documentary analysis; 2) identify sources of bias in
historical analysis; 3) apply intersectional and community-based
methods to archaeology
ANTH 245   Gender in Deep Time   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students will critically reflect on gender in cross-cultural and long-
term perspective. From an anthropological perspective, they will also
deconstruct their own cultural biases and assumptions. With a deep
and critical understanding of contemporary norms, students will apply
evidence-based reasoning to examine the construction of gender in the
past.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Women
& Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
1) Describe Western ideas of gender and sexuality; 2) identify
connections between feminist movements and gender archaeology; 3)
apply an intersectional approach to the study of gender both past and
present

--- Page 237 ---
268  Anthropology
ANTH 246   Ancient Human-Animal Interactions   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  For BIOL-BS, BIOL-MINR, and BIOE-BS students: BIOL 102;
for all others: ANTH 101, ANTH 104, BIOL 102, ENVS 101, or ENVS 137   
This course focuses on human-animal interactions in the past an d covers
how humans have shaped the geographic ranges and behaviors of
animals today. Questions on whether humans caused prehistoric animal
extinctions and how animal domestication occurred will be explored
using evidence from archaeological and paleontological records around
the world.
Course equivalencies:  X - ANTH 246 / BIOL 246   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of how archaeologists use
empirical data to answer questions about prehistoric human-animal
interactions
ANTH 247   Aliens, Atlantis, and Archaeology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students will examine the foundations of archaeological knowledge
claims to distinguish science from pseudoscience. Students will
also examine ways of knowing that go beyond Western science (i.e.,
Indigenous epistemologies). In the end, students will understand why
academic archaeologists do or do not accept claims about ancient aliens
or mythical moundbuilders. 2) Differentiate science from pseudoscience
in popular media. 3) Construct an evidence-based argument about an
archaeological controversy.
Outcomes:
1) Identify logical arguments and their supporting evidence
ANTH 258   Medical Anthropology & Global Health   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines how society and health are intertwined using
medical anthropology and global health. Medical anthropology is the
study of how health and illness are shaped, experienced, and understood
cross-culturally, while global health is dedicated to improving the health
of populations worldwide. Students will apply their knowledge t o develop
a research proposal.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Outcomes:
Students will learn how medical anthropologists and global health
scientists work in varying cultural contexts to understand health and
illness
ANTH 280   Evolution of Human Disease   (3 Credit Hours)   
The complex interaction between humans and pathogens is explored
throughout time, with particular emphasis on the role and impact of
human biology, human culture, and changing environments.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH280/BIOL280/BIET280   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the human
immunological system, competing paradigms of human health, the
processes and mechanisms of biological evolution, the pathogeneses
of speciﬁc diseases, and the archaeological, paleopathological,
paleodemographic, and historical data used to explore the evolution of
diseaseANTH 281   Evolution of the Human Diet   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  For BIOL-BS, BIOL-MINR, and BIOE-BS students: BIOL 102;
for all others: ANTH 101 or BIOL 102   
This interdisciplinary course explores the evolution of the human diet
utilizing a biocultural perspective. The complex interplay between our
diet, biology, and culture is examined through energy acquisition, primate
and hominin nutrition, the Agricultural Revolution and Industrialization
on human health, food sustainability, and nutritional inequality through
socioeconomic and gender lenses.
Course equivalencies:  X-BIOL 281/ANTH 281   
Outcomes:
Students will identify the role food has played throughout the 6-7 million
years of human evolution, and its signiﬁcance in terms of climate change
variability, evolutionary adaptations and contemporary inequality
ANTH 300   Anthropology Career Development   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Restricted to ANTH/SANT majors and minors   
This course empowers students to translate their undergraduate
anthropology education into a professional portfolio that communicates
their knowledge, skills, and experiences to graduate schools an d future
employers.
Outcomes:
Through personal reflection exercises, the preparation of professional
and scholarly application documents, and proposal writing, students will
gain insight into how their anthropological education informs their future
professional interests
ANTH 303   People and Conservation   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course considers the interplay between indigenous peoples and
environmental resources utilizing current perspectives from evolutionary
and community ecology, conservation biology, anthropology, political
ecology and economics.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  ANTH303/INTS303A/BIET303   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of factors influencing
this interplay, including environmental ethics, traditional environmental
knowledge, resource management, community-based conservation,
property rights, common-pool resources, sustainable development, land
tenure, indigenous movements, and eco-tourism
ANTH 304   Anthropological Theory   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100 or ANTH 102   
In this course, we review major works of anthropological theory that
have influenced anthropology over the course of the past two centuries.
We attend to dynamic conversations that occur within the discipline,
the geopolitical diversity (and lack thereof) of anthropological theorists,
and we consider how these factors have shaped the trajectory of
anthropological research over time.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Race and Ethnicity   
Outcomes:
Students will: Demonstrate in-depth knowledge of major paradigms and
concepts in anthropology; apply anthropological theory to contemporary
topics and debates; critically discuss ethical and political implications
of anthropological research; demonstrate familiarity with main points of
agreement and disagreement in the discipline

--- Page 238 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 269
ANTH 305   Violence and Culture   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the complex relationships between violence and
culture using the ethnographic method as practiced by anthropologists
and other social scientists.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Sociolegal Studies   
Course equivalencies:  ANTH305/INTS303/PAX305   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the ways violence
destroys, alters or produces forms of cultural meaning and social action
and the ways in which cultural difference impacts patterns of violence
ANTH 306   Anthropology and Human Rights   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100 or ANTH 102   
This course examines the concept of universal human rights, and the
social movement that has developed to promote human rights, from an
anthropological perspective.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Sociolegal Studies   
Course equivalencies:  ANTH306/INTS308/PAX306   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the social and
historical origins of the concept of human rights and analyze the debates
that arise out of applying the concept of human rights in cross-cultural
contexts
ANTH 307   The Body and Culture   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines how culture shapes how the human body is
understood, categorized and used, and it also examines how bodily
experiences shape culture and society. Drawing on cultural anthropology,
it analyzes diverse cross-cultural examples, possibly ranging from body
decoration among Amazonian indigenous people, to plastic surgery,
childbirth, or sports.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will learn how socio-cultural forces shape human bodies;
understand how cultural anthropology examines the body; and examine
classic social theories about bodies, gender, social class and subjectivity
ANTH 309   Urban Anthropology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100 or ANTH 102   
This course is focused on deﬁning characteristics of city life across
a variety of societies It particularly considers urban complexity in the
context of the globalization of cities.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Urban Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain a cross-cultural and global outlook on the deﬁning
features of urbanism
ANTH 314   Applied Anthropology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 304 or Instructor approval   
This course offers a hands-on introduction to the application of
anthropological principles and methods to non-academic, "real world"
problems. Course sessions will be dedicated to situating applied
anthropology within the broader discipline, learning methods, and
practicing applied cultural techniques. Students will also develop and
carry out an applied cultural anthropology project.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will: situate applied anthropology in the broader discipline;
practice a variety of applied methodological techniques; work with a
community partner to design a project; prepare a comprehensive and
clearly written reportANTH 316   Anthropology of Religion & Ritual   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100 or ANTH 102   
The course considers religion as a form and part of culture. The
innovative as well as conservative features of religion in culture change
are addressed. Religion's role as both a belief-system and ritual practice
are underscored.
Outcomes:
Students will develop the capacity to view religion in a broad perspective
and to understand it as a signiﬁcant factor of belief and practice in
cultural systems
ANTH 317   Ethnographic Methods   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is designed to offer an introduction to qualitative methods
in anthropology. Students will learn methodologies such as participant
observation, interviewing, and document analysis, and we will also
address ethical issues in ﬁeld research. Students will design and carry
out an ethnographic research project. Instructor permission required.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Urban Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will: demonstrate in-depth knowledge of qualitative research
techniques; critically discuss ethical implications of ethnographic
research; undertake original ethnographic ﬁeldwork; prepare a
comprehensive, theoretically informed, and clearly written report based
on original ethnographic data
ANTH 319   Anthropology of Tourism   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100 or ANTH 102   
This course explores the phenomenon of tourism from an anthropological
perspective, addressing the social, cultural, economic, and environmental
impact of tourism on host communities and nations.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH319/INTS319   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the strengths/limitations
of various theoretical models for understanding tourism dynamics;
tourism's role in national development; the interplay between tourism
and cultural imagery; gender dynamics in tourism; the role of tourism
institutions (museums, souvenirs, travel literature) in the construction of
"exotic others"
ANTH 321   Human Rights in Latin America   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines human rights in Latin America from a
multidisciplinary perspective. It asks: what are human rights? Why
have human rights abuses occurred and how have Latin Americans
responded?
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, Global Studies, Latin American
Studies, Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies, Sociolegal Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH 321/LASP 398   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the international human rights legal framework,
be able to analyze why abuses have occurred, and understand how Latin
Americans have mobilized by studying speciﬁc cases

--- Page 239 ---
270  Anthropology
ANTH 324   Human Evolution   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 101 or ANTH 103   
The course examines the discipline of paleoanthropology, including
the techniques and methods, evolutionary framework, and detailed
analysis of skeletal and archaeological material that form our current
understanding of human evolution. Students will develop critical thinking
skills in how to interpret the human fossil and archaeological records.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science, Neuroscience   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to discuss the interdisciplinarity of
paleoanthropology, including the use of speciﬁc geology, chemistry, and
archaeological techniques
ANTH 325   Primatology-Behavior & Ecology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 101 or any 100-level Biology course   
This course examines primate behavior and ecology from a comparative
and evolutionary perspective. Students will be introduced to the diversity
across taxonomic groups within the Order Primates. Through class
discussion and observation, students will explore key issues in primate
studies. Students will develop and apply skills in primate observation.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH325/BIOL325/ESP 325   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to describe the taxonomic diversity of non-human
primates and explain the impact of biological, evolutionary, and ecological
factors on primate behavior
ANTH 326   Human Osteology Lec/Lab   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 101, or ANTH 103, or background in Biology   
This course focuses on developing a deep understanding of the human
skeleton and ways in which biological anthropologists and forensic
anthropologists use this knowledge to explore human biological diversity.
Through hands-on exercises and class discussion, students will build
analytical skills that are foundational to many techniques used by
professionals and will appreciate the complex ethical considerations
inherent to the ﬁelds of biological and forensic anthropology.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH326/BIOL326   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate superior knowledge of skeletal
anatomy, analyses of skeletal remains from archaeological contexts, and
apply current techniques designed to understand and explore human
variation, stature, ancestry, age-at-death, sex, and pathological conditions
ANTH 327   Dental Anthropology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 101 or any 100-level Biology course   
This course examines teeth with an anthropological perspective. By using
evolution by natural selection as our theoretical framework, students will
learn dental anatomy, morphology, and variation. The course then focuses
on embryology, dental development and eruption, and the biocultural
ways humans use their teeth.
Course equivalencies:  X- ANTH 327/BIOL 378   
Outcomes:
Students will gain factual knowledge of teeth from an evolutionary
perspective and will develop speciﬁc hands-on skills needed by dental
anthropologists, dentists, and oral biologists including dental molding,
casting, and wear scoringANTH 328   Pompeii and Herculaneum   (3 Credit Hours)   
The two best known Roman towns - Pompeii and Herculaneum - whose
remains were preserved by the eruption of Mt. Vesuvius in 79 CE - will
serve as a microcosm for understanding Roman society.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Course equivalencies:  HIST328/CLST328/ANTH328   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of how recent archaeological
discoveries have changed our view of Pompeii and Herculaneum and
learn to "read" such things as dining and bathing rituals, gladiator games,
and public and private architecture to gain insight into the structures of
Roman social and cultural life
ANTH 330   Language in Popular Culture   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100 or ANTH 102 or ANTH 208   
This course presents a critical approach to understanding language and
linguistic innovation in popular culture, including entertainment and news
media, digital communication, and political discourse.
Outcomes:
Students will 1) identify linguistic patterns and language ideologies
in mass media and digital discourse, 2) critically assess linguistic
evaluations and (mis)representations of social groups, 3) apply linguistic
anthropological insights to their own experiences with language in pop
culture
ANTH 332   Language, Race, and Inequality   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100 or ANTH 102 or ANTH 208   
This course addresses how and why languages and speakers are
associated with racialized stereotypes, and how linguistic discrimination
operates in U.S. culture today. In-depth case studies examine language
and race in education, mass media, material culture, and everyday
interaction. Critical perspectives on sociolinguistic norms and
relationships between language, Whiteness, and power are also included.
Critical thinking and writing are emphasized.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Latin
American Studies, Race and Ethnicity   
Outcomes:
Students will identify relationships between language and race
in everyday life, recognize and analyze instances of linguistic
discrimination, stereotypes, and covert racism
ANTH 334   Intro to Classical Archaeology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Refer to CLST 334
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH334/CLST334   
ANTH 334R   Introduction to Classical Archaeology - Rome/Italy Focus   (3
Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the main explorations and achievements in the
recovery of monuments of the ancient Greco-Roman world, particularly in
Rome and Italy, and on the methodologies involved with the recoveries.
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH334/CLST334   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to recognize and interpret selected sites
and monuments of the Greco-Roman world; They should be able to
demonstrate knowledge of methodologies and the technical vocabulary
of classical archaeology
ANTH 340   Classical Archaeology: Greek Temple   (3 Credit Hours)   
Refer to CLST 340
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH340/CLST340   

--- Page 240 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 271
ANTH 342   Rise & Fall of Civilizations   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 101 or ANTH 104   
This course examines the socio-cultural process that produced complex
societies in the past, particularly the contrasting trajectories of Old World
and New World civilizations. Emphasis is on the material manifestations
of status differences, power relations, and ideological control.
Outcomes:
Students will appreciate the complicated dynamics that underwrite
increasing socio-cultural differentiation and will understand the
archaeological methods used to chart that differentiation through time
ANTH 346   Biology of Women   (3 Credit Hours)   
The biology of women at pivotal points in the lifespan, along with
the biological changes that occur from one life stage to another. The
interaction of society (e.g., medical ﬁeld) with women at each of these
points in time. Topics to be discussed include the evolution of sex and
gender, gender differentiation and diversity, reproductive processes,
disease, detection and treatment, and violence against women.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  BIOL346/WOST346/ANTH346/WSGS   
ANTH 348   Museum & Material Culture Research   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course offers direct experience with anthropological research
methods and analysis using material culture and archival holdings from
the May Weber Ethnographic Study Collection. Grounded in object-
based studies and using examples from the collection, this course will
examine collecting contexts, formal and technical analyses, operational
sequences, cultural contexts, and interpretation.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students gain knowledge of research techniques for working with
museum-held objects while contributing to the permanent documentation
and interpretation of the May Weber Ethnographic Study Collection
through object research
ANTH 353   Epidemics and Pandemics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 101 or BIOL 101   
This interdisciplinary course tracks how scientists from multiple
disciplines have come together to understand and combat epidemics,
such as Ebola, HIV, Zika, SARS, MERS, and COVID-19. From the molecular
pathways underlying disease to the cultural contexts shaping public
health responses, students will understand epidemics and pandemics
from a biological and social perspective.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the biological,
epidemiological, clinical, and social aspects of key epidemics/pandemics;
Students will develop critical thinking skills by using this information to
develop locally-relevant public health recommendations
ANTH 356   Bioanthropological Lab Work   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  permission of department chairperson or instructor   
Individualized opportunity to learn about and engage in the main
laboratory methods used in bioanthropological research
Outcomes:
Students will gain detailed knowledge of the main bioanthropological lab
methodsANTH 359   Paleopathology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 101 or Instructor permission; Recommended:
ANTH 326   
This course introduces advanced students to the exploration of the
history of human disease through the analysis of human skeletal
remains.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH359/BIOL359   
Outcomes:
Students will have command of biological anthropological approaches
towards the understanding of human disease and will be familiar with
theoretical issues germane to the ﬁeld of paleopathology, biases and
ethical issues, and the role that disease has played throughout human
history
ANTH 360   Issues in Archaeology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 101 or ANTH 104   
Speciﬁc theoretical, methodological, and research problems in
archaeology with focus on current research in the discipline. Topics
include but are not restricted to: environmental archaeology;
ethnoarchaeology and experimental archaeology; the study of prehistoric
craft specialization, trade, demography, and urbanism.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to draw connections between contemporary
archaeological method and theory and current research issues in
anthropology
ANTH 361   Issues Cultural Anthropology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100 or ANTH 102   
The course is a vehicle for topics of particular interest to the instructor or
an issue of contemporary relevance. It may be a trial run for a course later
added to the ofﬁcial list.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate how cultural anthropology is
relevant to contemporary issues or how a problem can be structured
around a cultural anthropological viewpoint
ANTH 362   Issues in Biological Anthropology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 101 or BIO 101   
This course considers speciﬁc topics pertinent to the discipline of
physical or biological anthropology.
Outcomes:
Students will master theoretical perspectives and current information
pertinent to the speciﬁc issues covered in each speciﬁc course
ANTH 362B   Bioethics Minor Capstone: Anthropological Topics   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Two Science courses and two Ethics courses   
This course number will only be used when ANTH 362 is tagged with the
Bioethics Minor Capstone course.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the connection between ethical and
anthropological issues with regard to the special topic in anthropology
ANTH 363   Issues in Linguistic Anthropology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 208 or ANTH 231   
This course focuses on a current research question or area within
linguistic anthropology.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate appropriate knowledge and
application of methods and ﬁndings from aspects of linguistic
anthropology pertinent to the speciﬁc topic of the course

--- Page 241 ---
272  Anthropology (BA)
ANTH 365   Archaeology Lab Methods   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 101 or ANTH 104   
Practicum in analysis techniques for common archaeological materials,
such as lithics, ceramics, faunal and floral remains, and historic debris.
Topics include transformation processes; classiﬁcation techniques;
data recording and analysis standardization; curation; and computerized
strategies of data management and analysis.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to identify, describe, and classify basic
archaeological materials and relate these analyses with traditional
techniques of material fabrication and processing
ANTH 366   Lithic Technology   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a laboratory analysis of archaeological stone tools through
experimentation and ethno-archaeology.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of causes of variability in
raw material procurement, manufacturing techniques, use wear, discard,
recycling, methodological and theoretical considerations of artifact
classiﬁcation and strategies of data management and analysis
ANTH 375   Archaeology of Early Greece   (3 Credit Hours)   
Refer to CLST 375
Course equivalencies:  X-CLST375/ANTH375   
ANTH 396   Internship in Anthropology   (3-6 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Students must receive instructor permission prior to
enrolling and must complete (with signatures) the Course Contract Form   
Enrollment is limited to Undergraduate Anthropology Majors/Minors.
This course is designed to enhance student engagement by facilitating
internship experiences within the department or in museums, service-
oriented organizations, businesses, and non-proﬁt organizations.
Experiential learning is combined with rigorous academic work. This
course may serve, if appropriate, as a capstone experience.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will produce a research paper, project, proposal, or assessed
piece that reflects the application and integration of anthropological
theory, methods, or techniques, to the internship experience
ANTH 396A   Internship: Bioarchaeology & Forensic Anthropology   (3
Credit Hours)   
This course is designed to enhance student engagement by facilitating
internship experiences in forensic anthropology and bioarchaeology,
working in collaboration with community partner organizations.
Experiential learning is combined with rigorous academic work. This
course may serve, if appropriate, as a capstone experience. Instructor
permission required.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  X-FRSC 390/ANTH 396A   
Outcomes:
Students will produce a research paper, project, proposal, or assessed
piece that reflects the application and integration of forensic-
anthropological theory, methods, or techniques, to the internship
experience
ANTH 396M   Internship: Museum Collections Management   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Instructor permission required   
Through a 100-hour internship in the May Weber Ethnographic Study
Collection on the Lakeshore campus, students will contribute to the
ongoing professional management of a museum collection.ANTH 397   Directed Readings-Anthropology   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Permission of chairperson and faculty member   
Individualized readings in varied topics within anthropology.
Outcomes:
Students will gain detailed knowledge of the speciﬁc topic of their
directed readings subject
ANTH 398   Independent Study-Anthropology   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Permission of chairperson and faculty member   
Individualized program of independent study of anthropological problems
and/or issues.
Outcomes:
Students will gain detailed knowledge of the speciﬁc study program they
undertake
ANTH 399   Fieldwork in Anthropology   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Permission of chairperson and faculty member   
Application of anthropological concepts and methods to a speciﬁc ﬁeld
situation under the supervision of a faculty member.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will learn ﬁeld techniques and data recovery and analysis
techniques pertinent to the speciﬁc nature of their ﬁeld experience
Anthropology (BA)
To obtain the BA degree in Anthropology and prepare for a chosen
ﬁeld, students must complete the major requirements, round out their
education by learning important skills and values through Loyola's Core
Curriculum  (p. 1405 ) and develop their own special interests by taking
general electives.
Related Programs
Major
•Anthropology (BS)  (p. 273)
Minor
•Anthropology Minor  (p. 275)
Curriculum
Degree Requirements
Code Title Hours
Required Foundations:ANTH 100Globalization and Local Cultures3or ANTH 102Culture, Society, and Diversity
ANTH 101 Human Origins 3ANTH 231Linguistic Anthropology3
Ethnographic Requirement (Choose two of the following): 6ANTH 207Economies, Culture, and DevelopmentANTH 208 Language and IdentityANTH 211Peoples of Latin AmericaANTH 212 Peoples of Native North AmericaANTH 213Culture in AfricaANTH 214 African-American AnthropologyANTH 215Contemporary Japanese CultureANTH 216 Cultures of MigrationANTH 217Mexican Culture & HeritageANTH 220 Contemporary Cultures of the Middle East

--- Page 242 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 273ANTH 222Culture in Contemporary EuropeANTH 224 Social Movements, Culture, and ActivismANTH 225Museum CulturesTheoretical Requirement (Choose two of the following): 6ANTH 303People and ConservationANTH 304 Anthropological Theory 1ANTH 305Violence and CultureANTH 306 Anthropology and Human RightsANTH 307The Body and CultureANTH 309 Urban AnthropologyANTH 314Applied AnthropologyANTH 316 Anthropology of Religion & RitualANTH 317Ethnographic MethodsANTH 319 Anthropology of TourismANTH 321Human Rights in Latin AmericaANTH 330 Language in Popular CultureANTH 332Language, Race, and InequalityANTH 348 Museum & Material Culture ResearchANTH 361Issues Cultural AnthropologyANTH 363 Issues in Linguistic AnthropologyArchaeology Requirement (Choose one of the following):3
ANTH 241 Principles of ArchaeologyANTH 242Mesoamerican Archaeology and SurvivanceANTH 243 North American ArchaeologyANTH 244Historical ArchaeologyANTH 245 Gender in Deep TimeANTH 246Ancient Human-Animal InteractionsANTH 247 Aliens, Atlantis, and ArchaeologyBio-Anthropology Requirement (Choose one of the following):3
ANTH 324 Human EvolutionANTH 325Primatology-Behavior & EcologyANTH 326 Human Osteology Lec/LabANTH 327Dental AnthropologyANTH Elective (100/200/300 level) 3ANTH Elective (200/300 level)  23ANTH Elective (200/300 level)  23Total Hours36
1Students contemplating graduate studies in anthropology should
select ANTH 304 Anthropological Theory .
2Can be outside Anthropology with approval from the Undergraduate
Program Director.
ANTH 396 , ANTH 397 , ANTH 398 , and ANTH 399  may be taken more
than once, but ONL Y ONE may count towards the major.
There are no restrictions on course double-dipping for major and minor
programs in Anthropology. However, students may only earn a degree in
Anthropology BA or Anthropology BS.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
Students can begin the Anthropology (BA) degree at any point in their
undergraduate studies, in consultation with their advisor.  While there is
no set sequence of classes, students are encouraged to take ANTH 101
Human Origins  and either ANTH 100 Globalization and Local Cultures  orANTH 102 Culture, Society, and Diversity  early on, since these classes
are often (but not always) pre-requisites for higher level classes.  Once
students have declared the major, they are encouraged to contact
their advisor within the Anthropology Department or the Anthropology
Department’s Undergraduate Program Director for further guidance on
how best to progress with their studies.
Transfer-Student Residency Requirement
At least 18 credit hours courses for this degree must be completed at
Loyola.
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Upon completion of the Anthropology major, students will be able to
apply knowledge of human language as a structured, variable, and
power-laden communicative system through analysis of their own
social and linguistic worlds;
•identify theoretical and methodological approaches to cultural
anthropology and assess them critically, as demonstrated on course
assignments;
•develop knowledge of culture and social life in different parts of the
world, as assessed through course assignments;
•evaluate the interaction of biology, environment, and social behavior
through course assignments;
•apply archaeological method and theory to the analysis of material
remains, as evaluated through course assessments.
Anthropology (BS)
To obtain the BS degree in Anthropology and prepare for a chosen
ﬁeld, students must complete the major requirements, round out their
education by learning important skills and values through Loyola's Core
Curriculum  (p. 1405 ) and develop their own special interests by taking
general electives.
Related Programs
Major
•Anthropology (BA)  (p. 272)
Minor
•Anthropology Minor  (p. 275)

--- Page 243 ---
274  Anthropology (BS)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Required Foundations:ANTH 100Globalization and Local Cultures3or ANTH 102Culture, Society, and Diversity
ANTH 101 Human Origins 3ANTH 231Linguistic Anthropology3
ANTH 241 Principles of Archaeology 3Ethnographic Requirement (Choose one of the following):3
ANTH 207 Economies, Culture, and DevelopmentANTH 208Language and IdentityANTH 211 Peoples of Latin AmericaANTH 212Peoples of Native North AmericaANTH 213 Culture in AfricaANTH 214African-American AnthropologyANTH 215 Contemporary Japanese CultureANTH 216Cultures of MigrationANTH 217 Mexican Culture & HeritageANTH 220Contemporary Cultures of the Middle EastANTH 222 Culture in Contemporary EuropeANTH 224Social Movements, Culture, and ActivismANTH 225 Museum CulturesArchaeology Requirement (Choose one of the following):3
ANTH 242 Mesoamerican Archaeology and SurvivanceANTH 243North American ArchaeologyANTH 244 Historical ArchaeologyANTH 245Gender in Deep TimeANTH 246 Ancient Human-Animal InteractionsANTH 247Aliens, Atlantis, and ArchaeologyANTH 342 Rise & Fall of CivilizationsANTH 360Issues in ArchaeologyANTH 365 Archaeology Lab MethodsANTH 366Lithic TechnologyTheoretical Requirement (Choose one of the following): 3ANTH 303People and ConservationANTH 304 Anthropological Theory 1ANTH 305Violence and CultureANTH 306 Anthropology and Human RightsANTH 307The Body and CultureANTH 309 Urban AnthropologyANTH 314Applied AnthropologyANTH 316 Anthropology of Religion & RitualANTH 317Ethnographic MethodsANTH 319 Anthropology of TourismANTH 321Human Rights in Latin AmericaANTH 330 Language in Popular CultureANTH 332Language, Race, and InequalityANTH 348 Museum & Material Culture ResearchANTH 361Issues Cultural AnthropologyANTH 363 Issues in Linguistic AnthropologyBio-Anthropology Requirement (Choose two of the following):6
Select at least one of the following:ANTH 324Human EvolutionANTH 325 Primatology-Behavior & EcologyANTH 326Human Osteology Lec/LabANTH 327 Dental AnthropologySelect no more than one of the following:ANTH 280 Evolution of Human DiseaseANTH 281Evolution of the Human DietANTH 359 PaleopathologyANTH 362Issues in Biological AnthropologyANTH Elective (100/200/300 level) 3ANTH Elective (200/300 level)  23ANTH Elective (200/300 level)  23Total Hours36
1Students contemplating graduate studies in anthropology should
select  ANTH 304  Anthropological Theory .
2Can be outside Anthropology with approval from the Undergraduate
Program Director.
ANTH 396 , ANTH 397 , ANTH 398 , and ANTH 399  may be taken more
than once, but ONL Y ONE may count towards the major.
There are no restrictions on course double-dipping for major and minor
programs in Anthropology. However, students may only earn a degree in
Anthropology BA or Anthropology BS.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
Students can begin the Anthropology (BS) degree at any point in their
undergraduate studies, in consultation with their advisor.  While there is
no set sequence of classes, students are encouraged to take ANTH 101
Human Origins  and either ANTH 100 Globalization and Local Cultures  or
ANTH 102 Culture, Society, and Diversity  early on, since these classes
are often (but not always) pre-requisites for higher level classes.  Once
students have declared the major, they are encouraged to contact
their advisor within the Anthropology Department or the Anthropology
Department’s Undergraduate Program Director for further guidance on
how best to progress with their studies.
Transfer-Student Residency Requirement
At least 18 credit hours of ANTH courses must be completed at Loyola.
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.

--- Page 244 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 275
Learning Outcomes
•Upon completion of the Anthropology major, students will be able to
apply knowledge of human language as a structured, variable, and
power-laden communicative system through analysis of their own
social and linguistic worlds;
•identify theoretical and methodological approaches to cultural
anthropology and assess them critically, as demonstrated on course
assignments;
•develop knowledge of culture and social life in different parts of the
world, as assessed through course assignments;
•evaluate the interaction of biology, environment, and social behavior
through course assignments;
•apply archaeological method and theory to the analysis of material
remains, as evaluated through course assessments.
Anthropology Minor
The minor in anthropology is deliberately broad and flexible, so that
students can use it to supplement their main major. It complements
many different majors, across the spectrum of humanities, social
sciences, pre-law, pre-health, pre-business, and most other disciplines.
Related Programs
Major
•Anthropology (BA)  (p. 272)
•Anthropology (BS)  (p. 273)
Curriculum
A minor in anthropology requires the completion of ﬁve courses within
the department—no more than two of which can be at the 100-level.
Code Title Hours
Any 100, 200, or 300 Level ANTH Course 3Any 100, 200, or 300 Level ANTH Course3
Any 200 or 300 Level ANTH Course 3Any 200 or 300 Level ANTH Course3Any 200 or 300 Level ANTH Course3Total Hours15
A list of Anthropology (ANTH) course descriptions can be found here
(p. 2387 ).
There are no restrictions on course double-dipping for major and minor
programs in Anthropology.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The Anthropology Minor is deliberately broad and flexible, requiring
any ﬁve Anthropology (ANTH) classes, only two of which can be at the
100-level.  Students are generally encouraged to take the two (2) 100-
level classes ﬁrst, and are advised that ANTH 101 Human Origins  and
ANTH 100 Globalization and Local Cultures  or ANTH 102 Culture, Society,
and Diversity  are often pre-requisites for other upper-level classes. But
there is not set or recommended sequence.Learning Outcomes
•Students will be able to remember the four sub-ﬁelds of anthropology
(archaeology, biological, cultural, and linguistic) including their
respective core concepts          
•Students will apply anthropological theories and methodologies to
better understand multiple forms of social difference, including race,
ethnicity, class, gender and sexuality
Honors in Anthropology
Anthropology majors may graduate with distinction in anthropology by
fulﬁlling the requirements of the departmental honors program. This
program is not connected with the university's Honors Program. The
requirements for the department honors are:
•Minimum 3.5 grade point average overall and in the major
•Honors thesis written under faculty supervision and approved by the
anthropology program
The thesis represents at least 6 credit hours of work devoted to an
original research project in any subﬁeld of anthropology. It may be
completed as a substantial addition to a normal classroom course or
courses, or by the appropriate use of the directed readings, independent
study or ﬁeldwork courses.
Thesis research is usually done during the summer following the
junior year or during the senior year. Students interested in pursuing
departmental honors must express this intent no later than September
15 of the senior year (February 15 for December graduates). The student
is responsible for obtaining the consent of a department faculty member
to guide the work. The ﬁnal thesis product (commonly at least 25 pages,
double-spaced) must be approved by the department undergraduate
committee. A copy of the thesis remains with the department after
graduation.
Asian Studies Interdisciplinary
Program
Whether you want to gain advantage in the international world of
business, explore your own Asian heritage, study Asian medical systems,
or simply learn more about this fascinating part of the world, choosing
to minor in Asian studies is a wise move. The Asian studies minor
effectively complements a variety of majors, including anthropology,
history, ﬁne arts, political science, sociology, literature, theology,
marketing and ﬁnance. Students who plan to continue their studies
with an advanced degree in Asian studies or a related ﬁeld can lay the
educational groundwork here at Loyola University Chicago.
Undergraduate Programs
•Asian Studies Minor  (p. 277)
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.

--- Page 245 ---
276  Asian Studies Interdisciplinary Program
Asian Studies (ASIA) 
ASIA 101   Explorations in Asian Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces the histories and cultures of East, Southeast, and
South Asia from early modern times to the present.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ASIA101/INTS202   
ASIA 130   Introduction to Martial Arts   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces the student to Chinese Wushu. Two forms of
Wushu will be selected for in depth study each semester. Students will
explore the origins of the sports studied and their importance to Chinese
culture and philosophy while learning the speciﬁc physical techniques.
Course equivalencies:  THTR130/ASIA130   
Outcomes:
Students will improve their balance, flexibility and coordination while
learning the basic moves of two forms of Wushu; They will develop a
reference for appreciating the place of Wushu in Chinese culture and
create a foundation for further Wushu training
ASIA 152   Drawing China   (3 Credit Hours)   
This is an introductory drawing course. There are no pre-requisites nor
prior experience need to succeed in this course. Beijing is our  laboratory
and the topic of all class drawings.
Course equivalencies:  FNAR152/ASIA152   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to draw trees, buildings, automobiles, vegetables,
human beings in real life situations and in perspective
ASIA 160   The Crafts of China   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the artisan crafts of China historically and
technically. The course explores how and why the crafts appeared,
their historical trajectory and demonstrates how the crafts improved
technically. Ceramics, Bronze Castings and Wood works will serve as
prototypes. Students will undertake independent researches.
Course equivalencies:  FNAR160/ASIA160   
Outcomes:
Students will identify how the crafts of woodwork, bronze casting and
ceramics evolved and how they are currently practiced in China; Students
will articulate an understanding of the function of craft in Chinese culture
as well compare and contrast it to the function craft in their own culture
ASIA 167   Religions in China   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a survey of various religions in China that may include,
not only Confucianism and Taoism, but also Buddhism, Christianity,
Islam, Judaism, Zoroastrianism, Manicheism and popular or "folk"
religion. The course will consider the function of these various religions
in the development of Chinese society and their signiﬁcance in Chinese
civilization from ancient mythology to contemporary practices and
developments. "
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO167/ASIA167/INTS167   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge of the beliefs, practices,
and institutions in varied contexts and historical periods in China, of
various religions, both indigenous and "foreignASIA 168   Sacred Texts of China   (3 Credit Hours)   
Through the study of primary sacred texts of China (in translation), this
class will provide a basic understanding of Chinese thought and its
historical development. Interconnections among the various periods and
different schools of Chinese philosophy such as Confucianism, Taoism,
Buddhism and Neo-Confucianism will be demonstrated and discussed
from ancient through the medieval and modern periods.
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO168/ASIA168/INTS168   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge of the major Chinese
sacred texts and teachings of various religious and philosophical
traditions, and how they developed and interacted historically
ASIA 169   Taoism   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students will study the history and main ideas and practices of Taoism,
meet the sages who wrote the Taoist texts, be introduced to the various
schools of Taoist philosophy, and get a feel for what it means to practice
Taoism today. The course will illustrate how religious Taoism established
a relationship with Confucian thought and practice as well as how at each
stage of its historical development, Taoism exerted a profound influence
on Chinese politics, economy, culture, art, natural sciences, and social life.
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO169/ASIA169/INTS169   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge of philosophical and
religious Taoist beliefs, practices, and institutions in varied contexts and
historical periods
ASIA 191   Traditional Chinese Philosophy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students will investigate Chinese ancient philosophy in a way to
let its own tendencies be sensed and appreciated. Topics include
Confucianism, Mencius, Sunzi, Taoism, Legalism, Yin-Yang School,
Tung Chung-shu, Chinese Buddhism and Neo-Confucianism. In addition,
students learn about the relations among different schools or different
thinkers in the same school. Comparisons between Chinese philosophies
and western ones are encouraged.
Course equivalencies:  X-PHIL191/ASIA191   
ASIA 192   Chinese Ethics and Asian Values   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course offers an overview of the spirit of Chinese ethics, covering
sacred and secular as well as intellectual and practical elements.
Course equivalencies:  X-PHIL192/ASIA192/INTS192   
ASIA 193   Contemporary Chinese Philosophy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students will analyze the development of Chinese contemporary
thought in its different stages: rejection of the tradition and its recent
reevaluation.
Course equivalencies:  X-PHIL193/ASIA193/INTS193   
ASIA 252   Peoples of China   (3 Credit Hours)   
This class introduces China's cultural diversity and unity as a whole. It
provides a general overview of cultural mappings in China, and a detailed
study of signiﬁcant ethnic minorities.
Course equivalencies:  SOCL251/ASIA252/INTS251   
Outcomes:
Students will gain the ability to perceive cultural phenomena in a
comparative framework and understand cultural differences more deeply

--- Page 246 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 277
ASIA 263   Political and Social Movements in China   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines historical and contemporary movements pursuing
political, economic and social reforms in China. It studies both state-
sponsored and voluntary movements.
Course equivalencies:  SOCL263/INTS263   
Outcomes:
Students will gain a deeper understanding of China's ongoing
transformation, and will learn how to develop their own scholarly analysis
of such social change
ASIA 266   Development and Social Change in Modern China   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course examines change and development in modern China from the
late Qing period to the present, focusing on the movement from a planned
economy to a market-based economy.
Course equivalencies:  SOCL266/ASIA266/INTS266WSGS297   
Outcomes:
Students will gain knowledge of China's economic development path,
and will apply gender and/or class-based analysis to patterns of social
change
ASIA 272   Environment of China   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides a systematic introduction to major environmental
issues in the context of recent social and economic development in China
Course equivalencies:  X-NTSC270/ASIA272/INTS270   
ASIA 292   Modern Chinese Fiction   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces selected ﬁctional works by some of the most
insightful writers of modern China. The course focuses on signiﬁcant
aspects of these works with an objective to enhance students'
fascination with and skill in the reading and analysis of modern Chinese
ﬁction. Knowledge of modern Chinese ﬁction will enable students to
understand central aspects of 20th century Chinese culture.
Course equivalencies:  X-LITR292/ASIA292/INTS290   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze literary texts of a particular historical
period and write critical essays on works read in the course
ASIA 297   Topics in Asia   (3 Credit Hours)   
Special topics or new approaches of current interest to the instructor.
This course may be used to fulﬁll the Asian minor requirement for a 300-
level course in Asia-related topics. Students may repeat the course for
credit when the topic changes.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain familiarity with the topic; the ability to m ake
connections between secondary and primary sources; and the capacity
to think critically about the ways that historians have approached major
issues
ASIA 302   Discovering China Through Film   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will give an overview of major ﬁlms produced in mainland
China since 1949. Students will examine the genres of Chinese ﬁlm
better known in contemporary China and consider them a major source
of reflection upon, and critique of, contemporary Chinese society and
culture.
Course equivalencies:  CMUN301/ASIA/INTS/AIFMS302   
Outcomes:
All ﬁlms chosen for the course will help inform students' understanding of
modern China in terms of its material conditions and ideologyASIA 314   Modern Chinese Literature in Chinese   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a survey of modern Chinese literature from 1918 to the
present. It requires the close reading of famous Chinese writers and
poets as well as some of the avant-garde writers. Students will have the
opportunity to explore their own ideas of the aesthetic characteristics
of the Chinese literature in the 20th century, as well as its historical
and social background and learn about one of the important aspects of
modern Chinese culture.
Course equivalencies:  X-CHIN341/ASIA314/INTS341A   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of principal, genres, themes and
forms of modern Chinese literature through analytical oral and written
arguments
Asian Studies Minor
Whether you want to gain advantage in the international world of
business, explore your own Asian heritage, study Asian medical systems,
or simply learn more about this fascinating part of the world, choosing
to minor in Asian studies is a wise move. The Asian studies minor
effectively complements a variety of majors, including anthropology,
history, ﬁne arts, political science, sociology, literature, theology,
marketing and ﬁnance. Students who plan to continue their studies
with an advanced degree in Asian studies or a related ﬁeld can lay the
educational groundwork here at Loyola University Chicago.
Our society is becoming increasingly more global and ethnically diverse.
Asians in the American labor force are expected to triple to 10 million
within the next 30 years. Asian businesses have become transnational
leaders in the ﬁelds of international trade, ﬁnance and technol ogy.
One way that will help ensure your future success is to augment your
educational experience now with a minor in Asian studies.
Related Programs
Minor
•Asian Language and Literatures Minor  (p. 567)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesASIA 101Explorations in Asian Studies 13
Required Elective Courses 15Two (2) courses must be taken at the 300-level.Total Hours18
1At this time and for the foreseeable future,  ASIA 101 Explorations in
Asian Studies  requirement is being waived. You still need to take 18
credit hours of Asian Studies courses.
Courses in Asian languages are not required but may count towards the
required coursework.
Cross-Listed Course Offerings
The following courses are to be used toward elective requirements. 
Students should consult an advisor before registering for courses for the
minor.

--- Page 247 ---
278  Asian Studies Minor
Code Title Hours
ANTH 100 Globalization and Local Cultures 3ANTH 215Contemporary Japanese Culture3
CHIN 101 Chinese I 3CHIN 102Chinese II3
CHIN 103 Chinese III 3CHIN 104Chinese IV3
COMM 239 Moving China 3COMM 269Observing China3
COMM 301 Discovering China Through Film 3ENGL 315South Asian Literatures in English3
ENGL 315C South Asian Literature Since 1900 3FNAR 152Drawing China3
FNAR 160 The Crafts of China 3FNAR 357South Asian Visual Culture3
FNAR 358 Chinese Art and Culture 3FNAR 359Japanese Art and Culture3
HIST 208 East Asian History: Themes & Issues 3HIST 208XPre-Modern Chinese History3
HIST 208Z Modern Chinese History 3HIST 209Islamic History: Themes & Issues3
HIST 275A The Silk Roads: Global Trade, Culture, & Politics 3HIST 300Topics in History (South Asian History)3
HIST 343 Modern South Asia 3HIST 345ATraditional China from Antiquity to 15503
HIST 346A Early Modern China: 1550-1800 3HIST 346BReform & Revolution in China, 1800-19493
HIST 346C History of Christianity in China 3HIST 347AChina Since 1949: The People's Republic3
HIST 347C Cultural Revolution-China 3HIST 347DModern Chinese History through Film3
HIST 349A Women in East Asia 3HIST 359HAnti-Colonial Resistance in the Twentieth Century3
HIST 388A Vietnam War 3HNDI 101Hindi-Urdu I3
HNDI 102 Hindi-Urdu II 3HNDI 103Hindi-Urdu III3
HNDI 104 Hindi-Urdu IV 3HONR 209AEncountering Asia3
HONR 209B Encountering Asia 3HONR 209CEncountering Asia3
JAPN 101 Japanese I 3JAPN 102Japanese II3
JAPN 103 Japanese III 3JAPN 104Japanese IV3
JAPN 250 Composition & Conversation I 3JAPN 251Composition & Conversation II3
LITR 243 South Asian Literature 3LITR 244Indian Film3
LITR 245 Asian Masterpieces 3LITR 292Modern Chinese Fiction3
PHIL 191 Traditional Chinese Philosophy 3PHIL 192Chinese Ethics and Asian Values3
PHIL 193 Contemporary Chinese Philosophy 3PHIL 335Asian Philosophy3
PLSC 336 Politics in Contemporary China 3PLSC 345South & Southeast Asian Politics3
PLSC 346 East Asian Politics 3SOCL 122Race and Ethnic Relations3
SOCL 250 Inequality in Society 3SOCL 251Peoples of China: Their Cultures and Customs3
SOCL 266 Development and Social Change in Modern China 3THEO 167Religions in China3
THEO 168 Sacred Texts of China 3THEO 169Taoism3
THEO 282 Hinduism 3THEO 295Islam3
THEO 297 Buddhism 3THEO 299Religions of Asia3
THEO 350 Topics in Islam 3THEO 352Topics in Buddhism3
THEO 365 Women, Gender and Embodiment in Islam 3THEO 366Contemporary Islamic Thought and Movements3
UNIV 302 Ricci Seminar Asia 3URDU 101Introductory Urdu I3
URDU 102 Introductory Urdu II 3
Transfer-Student Residency Requirement
At least 9 credit hours of ASIA-MINR requirements must be completed at
Loyola.
Double-Dipping Policy
This department observes the CAS Double-Dipping Policy  (https://
www.luc.edu/cas/double-dippingpolicy/ ) regarding unique credits
required for each declared major/minor. Not less than 9 credit hours in
the individual student’s transcript must be unique to each minor; that is,
the courses in question are considered as actually fulﬁlling requirements
of one minor, not of more than one minor or major.
For more information on the Asian Studies Minor, please contact the
Asian studies director:
Dr. John Pincince, Director of Asian Studies 
Department of History, Crown Center, 5th Floor 
Loyola University Chicago 
1032 W. Sheridan Road 
Chicago, Illinois 60660
Phone: 773.508.2238
Learning Outcomes
The Asian Studies minor is an interdisciplinary program of study,
which incorporates the diversity of disciplinary approaches and geo-
political areas of interest.  The minor seeks to introduce students to
the rich variety of places, peoples, histories, relations, cultures, polities,
environments with an emphasis on not only a singular nation-state, but
to consider as well transnational, regional, and global connectivities.
  Essential to developing, expanding, and enriching the process of

--- Page 248 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 279
learning, Asian Studies minors will demonstrate a knowledge and skills
development in different ways:
•Students will be able to articulate broadly the history of Asia or a
particular Asian region.
•Students will be develop an understanding of political experiences
and forms of Asia/Asian region.
•Students will be able to reflect on the interaction among and between
Asian societies, historically and/or contemporaneously.
•Students will develop basic understanding of the historical and
contemporary connections of Asia/Asian region with the rest of the
world (and expansively post-1500CE).
•Students will be able to describe and differentiate various Asian
religious traditions.
•Students will be able to articulate values of diversity, justice, and
multi-culturalism in Asian and the rest of the world.
•Students will be able to demonstrate analytical, communications, and
critical thinking skills through a variety of forms, textual, performative,
and experiential: e.g. essays, oral presentations, language acquisition,
cultural immersion (study/internships abroad), artistic.
Bioethics Interdisciplinary Program
The interdisciplinary minor in bioethics encompasses work in the ﬁelds
of biology, natural science, philosophy, sociology and theology. It enables
students to study topics in which the life sciences and ethics converge,
such as: biological and chemical weapons, human stem cell research,
global warming, human and animal experimentation, pollution, genetic
screening and gene therapy, and human population growth.
Undergraduate Programs
•Bioethics Minor  (p. 280)
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
 Bioethics (BIET)
BIET 395   Special Topics   (3 Credit Hours)   
This interdisciplinary team-taught course examines a topic in bioethics
from both scientiﬁc and ethical points of view. Topics may include:
biotechnologies, concepts of race and gender, the environment,
reproduction, and others.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand the relevant scientiﬁc concepts,
techniques, and methods, recognize ethical issues raised by the topic,
and use ethical reasoning and ethical judgement (concepts, theories,
methods) to discuss the topicBIET 395A   Bioethics Minor Capstone: Philosophical & Anthropological
Topics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Two Science courses and two Ethics courses   
This interdisciplinary team-taught course examines a topic in bioethics
from both scientiﬁc and ethical points of view. Topics may include:
biotechnologies, concepts of race and gender, the environment,
reproduction, and others.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand the relevant scientiﬁc concepts,
techniques, and methods, recognize ethical issues raised by the topic,
and use ethical reasoning and ethical judgment (concepts, theories,
methods) to discuss the topic
BIET 395B   Bioethics Minor Capstone: Philosophical & Biological
Topics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Two Science courses and two Ethics courses   
This interdisciplinary team-taught course examines a topic in bioethics
from both scientiﬁc and ethical points of view. Topics may include:
biotechnologies, concepts of race and gender, the environment,
reproduction, and others.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand the relevant scientiﬁc concepts,
techniques, and methods, recognize ethical issues raised by the topic,
and use ethical reasoning and ethical judgment (concepts, theories,
methods) to discuss the topic
BIET 395C   Bioethics Minor Capstone: Philosophical and Chemical
Topics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Two Science courses and two Ethics courses   
This interdisciplinary team-taught course examines a topic in bioethics
from both scientiﬁc and ethical points of view. Topics may include:
biotechnologies, concepts of race and gender, the environment,
reproduction, and others.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand the relevant scientiﬁc concepts,
techniques, and methods, recognize ethical issues raised by the topic,
and use ethical reasoning and ethical judgment (concepts, theories,
methods) to discuss the topic
BIET 395E   Bioethics Minor Capstone: Philosophical & Environmental
Science Topics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Two Science courses and two Ethics courses   
This interdisciplinary team-taught course examines a topic in bioethics
from both scientiﬁc and ethical points of view. Topics may include:
biotechnologies, concepts of race and gender, the environment,
reproduction, and others.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand the relevant scientiﬁc concepts,
techniques, and methods, recognize ethical issues raised by the topic,
and use ethical reasoning and ethical judgment (concepts, theories,
methods) to discuss the topic

--- Page 249 ---
280  Bioethics Minor
BIET 396A   Bioethics Minor Capstone: Theological & Anthropological
Topics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Two Science courses and two Ethics courses   
This interdisciplinary team-taught course examines a topic in bioethics
from both scientiﬁc and ethical points of view. Topics may include:
biotechnologies, concepts of race and gender, the environment,
reproduction, and others.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand the relevant scientiﬁc concepts,
techniques, and methods, recognize ethical issues raised by the topic,
and use ethical reasoning and ethical judgment (concepts, theories,
methods) to discuss the topic
BIET 396B   Bioethics Minor Capstone: Theological and Biological
Topics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Two Science courses and two Ethics courses   
This interdisciplinary team-taught course examines a topic in bioethics
from both scientiﬁc and ethical points of view. Topics may include:
biotechnologies, concepts of race and gender, the environment,
reproduction, and others.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand the relevant scientiﬁc concepts,
techniques, and methods, recognize ethical issues raised by the topic,
and use ethical reasoning and ethical judgment (concepts, theories,
methods) to discuss the topic
BIET 396C   Bioethics Minor Capstone: Theological and Chemical
Topics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Two Science courses and two Ethics courses   
This interdisciplinary team-taught course examines a topic in bioethics
from both scientiﬁc and ethical points of view. Topics may include:
biotechnologies, concepts of race and gender, the environment,
reproduction, and others.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand the relevant scientiﬁc concepts,
techniques, and methods, recognize ethical issues raised by the topic,
and use ethical reasoning and ethical judgment (concepts, theories,
methods) to discuss the topic
BIET 396E   Bioethics Minor Capstone: Theological & Environmental
Science Topics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Two Science courses and two Ethics courses   
This interdisciplinary team-taught course examines a topic in bioethics
from both scientiﬁc and ethical points of view. Topics may include:
biotechnologies, concepts of race and gender, the environment,
reproduction, and others.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand the relevant scientiﬁc concepts,
techniques, and methods, recognize ethical issues raised by the topic,
and use ethical reasoning and ethical judgment (concepts, theories,
methods) to discuss the topic
Bioethics Minor
The interdisciplinary minor in bioethics encompasses work in the ﬁelds
of biology, natural science, philosophy, sociology and theology. It enables
students to study topics in which the life sciences and ethics converge,
such as: biological and chemical weapons, human stem cell research,global warming, human and animal experimentation, pollution, genetic
screening and gene therapy, and human population growth.
The bioethics minor helps to prepare students for a range of future
careers, or for advanced study in the health professions, the sciences,
teaching, law, journalism, ministry, research, government or social
work. For many students, the study of bioethics not only deepens
their understanding of science and its impact on our lives, but also
strengthens their ability to think broadly and critically, and to better see
the vital integration of science and technology with individuals and the
world around us.
Related Programs
Minor
•Biology Minor  (p. 302)
•Chemistry Minor  (p. 332)
•Philosophy Minor  (p. 609)
•Sociology Minor  (p. 668)
Curriculum
Requirements
The minor in bioethics requires at least seven courses completed with
a grade of "C" or better. The science requirement is satisﬁed by taking
either four courses in Biology or three courses in the Natural Sciences.
The Ethics requirement is satisﬁed by 1) completing the foundational
course ( PHIL 284 Health Care Ethics ); 2) taking two elective courses
(one at the 300-level); and 3) one interdisciplinary capstone course
(BIET 395A , BIET 395B , BIET 395C , BIET 395E , BIET 396A , BIET 396B ,
BIET 396C , or BIET 396E ). See below for more detailed information about
which speciﬁc courses satisfy these requirements.
Please note that one of the three ethics courses must be taken at the
300-level. This is in addition to the required capstone course (BIET
395A,B,C, or E or BIET 396A,B,C, or E).
Code Title Hours
Science RequirementStudents choose either Biology or Natural Sciences courses to fulﬁll
the Science requirement.8-9
Biology (BIOL) CoursesAll four (4) courses are requiredBIOL 101 
& BIOL 111General Biology I 
and General Biology I LabBIOL 102 
& BIOL 112General Biology II 
and General Biology II LabNatural Sciences CoursesChoose three (3) of the following:ANTH 101 Human OriginsANTH 103Biological Background Human Social BehaviorANTH 104 The Human Ecological FootprintANTH 105Human Biocultural DiversityANTH 106 Sex, Science and Anthropological InquiryANTH 258Medical Anthropology & Global HealthANTH 280 Evolution of Human DiseaseANTH 303People and ConservationANTH 353 Epidemics and PandemicsENVS 204Gender, Health & Environment

--- Page 250 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 281
ENVS 207 Plants and CivilizationENVS 218Biodiversity & BiogeographyENVS 223 Soil EcologyENVS 224Climate & Climate ChangeENVS 226 Science & Conservation of Freshwater EcosystemsENVS 273Energy and the EnvironmentENVS 274 Chemistry of the Natural EnvironmentENVS 280Principles of EcologyENVS 283 Environmental SustainabilityENVS 301Environmental HealthENVS 385 Introduction to Global HealthENVS 387Principles of EcotoxicologyEthics RequirementFoundations CoursePHIL 284 Health Care Ethics (Also counts as Tier 2 core,
Philosophical Knowledge)3Choose two (2) additional Ethics courses from the list below, one of
which must be 300-level:6
PhilosophyPHIL 287Environmental Ethics (Also counts as Tier 2 core,
Philosophical Knowledge)PHIL 324 Topics in Ethics (Topic must be related to
Bioethics)PHIL 355NeuroethicsPHIL 369 Philosophy of MedicinePHIL 389Contemporary Issues (Topic must be related to
Bioethics)PHIL 398 Capstone Seminar in Contemporary Philosophy
(Topic must be related to Bioethics)TheologyTHEO 192 Topics in Moral Problems (Topic must be related to
Bioethics)THEO 204Religious Ethics and the Ecological CrisisTHEO 342 Perspectives on Life and DeathTHEO 343Contemporary Christian SexualityTHEO 344 Theology and EcologyTHEO 393Seminar (Topic must be related to Bioethics)HistoryHIST 301Plagues: The Black Death and Other PandemicsHIST 331A Food, Hunger, and Power in the Modern WorldHealth Systems ManagementHSM 110 Healthcare in AmericaHSM 210Introduction to Global Healthcare DeliveryHSM 220 Post-Acute & Long-Term Care ManagementHSM 230Fundamentals of Health EquityPsychologyPSYC 235Psychology of Human SexualityPSYC 238 Gender & Sex Differences & SimilaritiesPSYC 373Health PsychologySociologySOCL 221Sociology and Culture of the Life CourseSOCL 226 Science, Technology, & SocietySOCL 225Sociology of Health CareSOCL 236 Population StudiesSOCL 270Sociology of Science (Topic must be related to
Bioethics)SOCL 272 Environmental SociologySOCL 278Global HealthInterdisciplinary Capstone Course  1BIET 395ABioethics Minor Capstone: Philosophical &
Anthropological Topics3or BIET 395BBioethics Minor Capstone: Philosophical & Biological
Topicsor BIET 395CBioethics Minor Capstone: Philosophical and Chemical
Topicsor BIET 395EBioethics Minor Capstone: Philosophical &
Environmental Science Topicsor BIET 396ABioethics Minor Capstone: Theological &
Anthropological Topicsor BIET 396BBioethics Minor Capstone: Theological and Biological
Topicsor BIET 396CBioethics Minor Capstone: Theological and Chemical
Topicsor BIET 396EBioethics Minor Capstone: Theological &
Environmental Science TopicsTotal Hours20-21
1Prerequisites: Must have completed two of the science requirements
and two of the ethics requirements.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Biology Track (For Biology, Biochemistry, & Neuroscience Majors)
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
BIOL 101 General Biology I 3BIOL 111General Biology I Lab1 Hours4
SpringBIOL 102General Biology II3BIOL 112General Biology II Lab1 Hours4
Year 2
FallPHIL 284Health Care Ethics3 Hours3
Year 3
FallEthics Elective (any level)3 Hours3

--- Page 251 ---
282  Bioinformatics
SpringEthics 300-level Elective3 Hours3
Year 4
SpringBIET 395A 
or BIET 395B 
or BIET 395C 
or BIET 395E 
or BIET 396A 
or BIET 396B 
or BIET 396C 
or BIET 396EBioethics Minor Capstone: Philosophical &
Anthropological Topics 
or Bioethics Minor Capstone:
Philosophical & Biological Topics 
or Bioethics Minor Capstone:
Philosophical and Chemical Topics 
or Bioethics Minor Capstone:
Philosophical & Environmental Science
Topics 
or Bioethics Minor Capstone:
Theological & Anthropological Topics 
or Bioethics Minor Capstone:
Theological and Biological Topics 
or Bioethics Minor Capstone:
Theological and Chemical Topics 
or Bioethics Minor Capstone:
Theological & Environmental Science
Topics3
 Hours3 Total Hours20
Life Sciences Track
Course Title Hours
Year 1
FallLife Science Course #13 Hours3
SpringLife Science Course #23 Hours3
Year 2
FallPHIL 284Health Care Ethics3 Hours3
SpringEthics Elective (any level)3 Hours3
Year 3
FallLife Science Course #33 Hours3
SpringEthics 300-level Elective3 Hours3Year 4
SpringBIET 395A 
or BIET 395B 
or BIET 395C 
or BIET 395E 
or BIET 396A 
or BIET 396B 
or BIET 396C 
or BIET 396EBioethics Minor Capstone: Philosophical &
Anthropological Topics 
or Bioethics Minor Capstone:
Philosophical & Biological Topics 
or Bioethics Minor Capstone:
Philosophical and Chemical Topics 
or Bioethics Minor Capstone:
Philosophical & Environmental Science
Topics 
or Bioethics Minor Capstone:
Theological & Anthropological Topics 
or Bioethics Minor Capstone:
Theological and Biological Topics 
or Bioethics Minor Capstone:
Theological and Chemical Topics 
or Bioethics Minor Capstone:
Theological & Environmental Science
Topics3
 Hours3 Total Hours21
Double-Dipping Policy
•Students may not major and minor in the same discipline.
•Majors: Not less than 21 credit hours in the individual student’s
transcript must be unique to each major; that is, the courses in
question are considered as actually fulﬁlling requirements of one
major, not of more than one major.
•Minors and interdisciplinary minors: not less than 8 credit hours in
the individual student’s transcript must be unique to each minor;
that is, the courses in question are considered as actually fulﬁlling
requirements of one minor, not of more than one minor or major.
Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of the program, students will:
•Understand relevant scientiﬁc concepts, techniques, and methods as
they relate to bioethical topics.
•Recognize bioethical issues.
•Apply ethical reasoning and ethical judgment (concepts, theories,
methods) to discuss bioethical issues.
•Integrate science and ethics such that students can take a bioethical
topic or issue and connect the scientiﬁc with the ethical issues.
Bioinformatics
About Us
Bioinformatics is a highly interdisciplinary STEM ﬁeld that integrates
computational and statistical methods for analyzing large biological data
sets. Bioinformaticians apply their biological and computational sciences
backgrounds to develop, utilize, and optimize new computational tools
to organize, synthesize, and analyze the rapidly increasing amount of
biological and biomedical data.
The Bioinformatics Program includes Loyola faculty from the
Departments of Biology, Chemistry, Computer Science, and Mathematics

--- Page 252 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 283
and Statistics. While these faculty have a vast area of research interests,
all require interdisciplinary approaches.
The Bioinformatics Program at Loyola is part of the College of Arts
and Sciences. The program provides students with unique preparation
for professional careers by offering both integrated and project-based
learning with courses that feature the latest developments in the ﬁeld.
Undergraduate Programs
•Bioinformatics (BS)  (p. 283)
•Bioinformatics (BS/MS)  (p. 1010 )
•Bioinformatics Minor  (p. 286)
•Biology/Bioinformatics (BS/MS)  (p. 1026 )
•Honors in Bioinformatics  (p. 287)
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Bioinformatics (BIOI)
BIOI 300   Directed Readings   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Readings from the scientiﬁc literature in any focused area of
bioinformatics agreed upon by the student and the supervising faculty
member.
Outcomes:
Students will gain knowledge, journal reading expertise, and scientiﬁc
writing skills
BIOI 365   Exploring Proteins   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Bioinformatics Majors only and CHEM 361   
Computational tools are essential for the prediction of protein structures,
protein interactions, and structure based drug design. This class will
introduce fundamental concepts in the ﬁeld of computational protein
biology.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain a general understanding of the principles of
proteomics in addition to theoretical and practical experience with
protein-based databases and bioinformatics tools to explore protein
structure and function
BIOI 395   Special Topics: Bioinformatics   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Special areas of bioinformatics outside the usual curriculum that vary
each time the course is offered.
Outcomes:
Students will gain knowledge in and master a unique topic in
bioinformatics
BIOI 397   Bioinformatics Survey   (1-4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 101 and Instructor consent   
This course trains students in conducting collaborative bioinformatics
research as well reading and presenting scientiﬁc research.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Provides an alternative to individual research; reflects trends in the ﬁeld
for collaborative, group researchBIOI 398   Bioinformatics Internship   (1-4 Credit Hours)   
An independent research experience involving laboratory experiments,
computer program development, or statistical analysis or any
combination of these performed off-campus under the mentorship of a
Bioinformatics scientist not afﬁliated with Loyola.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
All students will acquire skills to perform and report on independent
research and to be intellectually responsible for evaluating their own and
related work; Other outcomes will include at least one of the following:
Experimental expertise, statistical evaluation of data sets, design and use
of computational tools
BIOI 399   Bioinformatics Research   (1-4 Credit Hours)   
An independent research experience involving laboratory experiments,
computer program development, or statistical analysis or any
combination of these performed under the mentorship of one or more
Bioinformatics faculty members.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
All students will acquire skills to perform and report on independent
research and to be intellectually responsible for evaluating their own and
related work; Other outcomes will include at least one of the following:
Experimental expertise, statistical evaluation of data sets, design and use
of computational tools
Bioinformatics (BS)
The ﬁeld of Bioinformatics is rooted in the massive databases generated
by worldwide DNA sequencing projects and by ever-widening 3-
dimensional protein structure studies. Mining the wealth of biological and
chemical information contained in these databases requires the tools of
computer science and statistics.
Bioinformatics approaches have already led to countless scientiﬁc,
medical, and agricultural breakthroughs that would have taken decades
to achieve without the foresight of a small number of visionary scientists
and programmers. This major provides students with the training, skills,
and opportunity to become charter members of this exciting, ground-
breaking discipline with virtually limitless post-graduate educational and
career advancement possibilities for years to come.
Loyola is home to a superb group of faculty members already working
at the interfaces of these four disciplines, who are combining their
expertise to offer students this unique educational opportunity. This
interdisciplinary major has its own detailed web pages at https://
www.luc.edu/bioinformatics/ .
Related Programs
Minor
•Bioinformatics Minor  (p. 286)
Combined
•Bioinformatics (BS/MS)  (p. 1010 )
•Biology/Bioinformatics (BS/MS)  (p. 1026 )

--- Page 253 ---
284  Bioinformatics (BS)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Biology Fundamental CoursesBIOL 101General Biology I3
BIOL 282 Genetics 3BIOL 283Genetics Laboratory1
Chemistry Fundamental CoursesCHEM 160Chemical Structure and Properties3
CHEM 180 Chemical Reactivity I 3CHEM 240Chemical Reactivity II3
CHEM 260 Quantitative Methods in Chemistry 3CHEM 361Principles of Biochemistry3
Computer Science Fundamental CoursesCOMP 141Introduction to Computing Tools and Techniques3
MATH 215 Object-Oriented Programming with Mathematics 13COMP 231Data Structures & Algorithms for Informatics3
Math/Stats Fundamental CoursesMATH 131Applied Calculus I3
MATH 132 Applied Calculus II 3STAT 335Introduction to Biostatistics3
Bioinformatics Fundamental CoursesBIOL 387Genomics3or BIOL 392Metagenomics
BIOL 388 Bioinformatics 3COMP 383Computational Biology4
STAT 337 Quantitative Methods in Bioinformatics 3
or STAT 336 Advanced BiostatisticsBioinformatics ElectivesSelect two of the following: 6BIOL 390Molecular Biology LaboratoryBIOI 365 Exploring Proteins
or CHEM 365 ProteomicsCOMP 353Database Programmingor COMP 379Machine Learning
Bioinformatics Research  21-4Select one of the following:BIOI 397 Bioinformatics SurveyBIOI 398Bioinformatics InternshipBIOI 399Bioinformatics ResearchTotal Hours60
Required courses within the major also satisfy the following university
Core Curriculum  (p. 1405 ) requirements: scientiﬁc literacy (6 credits) and
quantitative analysis (3 credits).
1Maybe substituted with  COMP 170 Introduction to Object-Oriented
Programming
2At least 1 Research credit hour is required for the BIOI major . BIOI 397
Bioinformatics Survey ,BIOI 398 Bioinformatics Internship , or BIOI 399
Bioinformatics Research  can be taken any semester offered, and
Internship/research can be repeated with each semester for 1 - 4 credit
hours.Suggested Sequence of Courses 
These course schedules display how students may complete the
bioinformatics major in addition to their university Core requirements in
four years of study.  The sequence of courses  below is meant to be used
as a suggested  path for completing coursework.  A student’s completion
of requirements depends on course offerings in a given term and the start
term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their advisor
for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
BIOL 101 General Biology I 3CHEM 160Chemical Structure and Properties3
MATH 131 Applied Calculus I 13CORE: College Writing Seminar3
CORE: Theology and Religious Studies Tier 1 3UNIV 101First Year Seminar1 Hours16
SpringCOMP 141Introduction to Computing Tools and
Techniques3
CHEM 180 Chemical Reactivity I 3MATH 132Applied Calculus II 23
CORE: Ethics 3CORE: Theology and Religious Studies Tier 23 Hours15
Year 2
FallBIOL 282Genetics3
BIOL 283 Genetics Laboratory 1CHEM 240Chemical Reactivity II3
MATH 215 Object-Oriented Programming with
Mathematics 33CORE: Historical Knowledge Tier 13CORE: Philosophical Knowledge Tier 13 Hours16
Spring
CHEM 260 Quantitative Methods in Chemistry 3COMP 231Data Structures & Algorithms for
Informatics3
CAS Elective 3CORE: Historical Knowledge Tier 23CORE: Philosophical Knowledge Tier 23 Hours15
Year 3
Fall
BIOL 388 Bioinformatics 3CHEM 361Principles of Biochemistry3
BIOL 392 
or BIOL 387Metagenomics ( Fall only ) 4 
or Genomics3CAS Elective3
CAS Language Requirement 1  53

--- Page 254 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 285CORE: Literary Knowledge & Experience Tier 13 Hours18
SpringSTAT 335Introduction to Biostatistics3
Select one Undergraduate Capstone:  61-4BIOI 397Bioinformatics Survey 
BIOI 398 Bioinformatics Internship  BIOI 399Bioinformatics Research 
CAS Language Requirement 2 3CORE: Literary Knowledge & Experience Tier 23CORE: Societal and Cultural Knowledge Tier 13 Hours13-16
Year 4
Fall
Select two of the following: 6-7BIOL 390Molecular Biology Laboratory 
BIOI 365 
or CHEM 365Exploring Proteins ( Fall only ) 7 
or Proteomics COMP 379 
or COMP 353Machine Learning ( Spring only ) 
or Database Programming 
CAS Elective 3CORE: Societal and Cultural Knowledge Tier 23 Hours12-13
SpringCOMP 383Computational Biology ( Spring only )4
STAT 337 
or STAT 336Quantitative Methods in Bioinformatics
(Spring only ) 
or Advanced Biostatistics3CAS Elective3
CAS Elective 3CORE: Artistic Knowledge and Experience3 Hours16 Total Hours121-125
1May substitute with MATH 161 Calculus I
2May substitute with MATH 162 Calculus II
3May substitute with COMP 170 Introduction to Object-Oriented
Programming
4May substitute with BIOL 387 Genomics (Spring only)
5Language competency required at the 102 level by course or test
(https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ )
6BIOI 397 Bioinformatics Survey , BIOI 398 Bioinformatics Internship , and
BIOI 399 Bioinformatics Research  can be taken any semester offered
and Internship/research can be repeated with each semester 1-4 credit
hours (although only 1 credit hour is required for the major)
7CHEM 365 Proteomics only offered in Spring - odd years
Note:  College of Arts & Sciences requires 2 Writing Intensive (WI) courses;
many CORE Tier 2 courses are available as WI; BIOL 390 Molecular
Biology Laboratory  is also WI. Note, only 1 WI course can be taken in a
single semester. 
Note:  120 credit hours are required for graduation.
Major Sample Schedule – Pre-Health
Updated 3/2024The sequence of courses below is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
BIOL 101 General Biology I 3BIOL 111General Biology I Lab 11
CHEM 160 Chemical Structure and Properties 3CHEM 161Chemical Structure and Properties
Laboratory1
MATH 131 Applied Calculus I 23CORE: College Writing Seminar3UNIV 101First Year Seminar1 Hours15
Spring
BIOL 102 General Biology II 13BIOL 112General Biology II Lab 11
CHEM 180 Chemical Reactivity I 3CHEM 181Chemical Reactivity I Lab1
MATH 132 Applied Calculus II 33COMP 141Introduction to Computing Tools and
Techniques3CORE: Historical Knowledge Tier 13 Hours17
Year 2
Fall
BIOL 282 Genetics 3BIOL 283Genetics Laboratory1
CHEM 240 Chemical Reactivity II 3CHEM 241Chemical Reactivity II Laboratory1
MATH 215 Object-Oriented Programming with
Mathematics3CORE: Philosophical Knowledge Tier 13 Hours14
SpringCHEM 260Quantitative Methods in Chemistry3
CHEM 261 Quantitative Methods in Chemistry
Laboratory1COMP 231Data Structures & Algorithms for
Informatics3
CORE: Historical Knowledge Tier 2 3CORE: Philosophical Knowledge Tier 23CORE: Ethics3 Hours16
Year 3
Fall
CHEM 361 Principles of Biochemistry 3BIOL 392 
or BIOL 387Metagenomics ( Fall only ) 
or Genomics3
CAS Language Requirement 1  43

--- Page 255 ---
286  Bioinformatics MinorCORE: Literary Knowledge & Experience Tier 13
PHYS 111 College Physics I Lec / Dis 13PHYS 111LCollege Physics Laboratory I 11 Hours16
SpringBIOL 388Bioinformatics3
Select one of the following:  61-4BIOI 397Bioinformatics Survey 
BIOI 398 Bioinformatics Internship  BIOI 399Bioinformatics Research 
CAS Language Requirement 2 3CORE: Societal and Cultural Knowledge Tier 13
PHYS 112 College Physics II Lec/Disc 13PHYS 112LCollege Physics Lab II 11 Hours14-17
Year 4
FallSTAT 335Introduction to Biostatistics3
Select two of the following:  BIOL 390Molecular Biology Laboratory 
BIOI 365 
or CHEM 365Exploring Proteins ( Fall only ) 7 
or Proteomics COMP 353 
or COMP 379Database Programming 
or Machine Learning 
CORE: Societal and Cultural Knowledge Tier 2 3CORE: Theology and Religious Studies Tier 13 Hours9
SpringCOMP 383Computational Biology ( Spring only )4
STAT 337 
or STAT 336Quantitative Methods in Bioinformatics
(Spring only ) 8 
or Advanced Biostatistics3CORE: Artistic Knowledge and Experience3
CORE: Literary Knowledge & Experience Tier 2 3CORE: Theology and Religious Studies Tier 23 Hours16 Total Hours117-120
1Recommended for Pre-health students but not required for the major.
2May substitute with MATH 161 Calculus I
3May substitute with MATH 162 Calculus II
4Language competency required at the 102 level by course or test
(https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ )
5May substitute with BIOL 392 Metagenomics  (fall only)
6BIOI 397 Bioinformatics Survey , BIOI 398 Bioinformatics Internship , and
BIOI 399 Bioinformatics Research  can be taken any semester offered
and Internship/research can be repeated with each semester 1-4 credit
hours (although only 1 credit hour is required for the major)
7Choose 2 of 3:
1.BIOI 365 Exploring Proteins  (Fall only) or CHEM 365
Proteomics  (odd years, Spring only)
2.COMP 379 Machine Learning  (Fall only) or COMP 353 Database
Programming
3.BIOL 390 Molecular Biology Laboratory8May substitute with STAT 336 Advanced Biostatistics  (Fall & Spring)
Note:  College of Arts & Sciences requires 2 Writing Intensive (WI) courses;
many CORE Tier 2 courses are available as WI; BIOL 390 Molecular
Biology Laboratory  is also WI. Note only 1 WI course can be taken in a
single semester. 
Note:  120 credit hours are required for graduation.
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
The bioinformatics major at Loyola provides students with the training
and opportunities to become leaders in this ground-breaking discipline,
with career advancement and post-graduate possibilities for years to
come. Loyola's BS Bioinformatics Program will prepare you with:
•technical skills at the interface of biology, computer science,
chemistry and statistics;
•biological and chemical laboratory techniques;
•computer programming capabilities;
•statistical techniques to analyze results from laboratory experiments
and computer outputs; and
•an understanding of key problems, proposed solutions, and future
challenges of the bioinformatics ﬁeld.
Bioinformatics Minor
Bioinformatics is a highly interdisciplinary STEM ﬁeld that integrates
computational and statistical methods for analyzing large biological data
sets. Bioinformaticians apply their biological and computational sciences
backgrounds to develop, utilize, and optimize new computational tools
to organize, synthesize, and analyze the rapidly increasing amount of
biological and biomedical data.
The Bioinformatics minor at Loyola provides students with training and
opportunities in this ground-breaking discipline, opening doors to career
advancement and post-graduate possibilities for years to come.
Related Programs
Major
•Bioinformatics (BS)  (p. 283)

--- Page 256 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 287
Combined
•Bioinformatics (BS/MS)  (p. 1010 )
Curriculum
Degree Requirements
The following degree requirements are for students who have declared a
minor in Bioinformatics.
Code Title Hours
Biology Fundamental CoursesBIOL 101General Biology I3
BIOL 282 Genetics 3BIOL 388Bioinformatics3
Computer Science Fundamental CoursesMATH 215Object-Oriented Programming with Mathematics 13
Math/Stats Fundamental CoursesMATH 131Applied Calculus I3
MATH 132 Applied Calculus II 3STAT 335Introduction to Biostatistics3or STAT 203Introduction to Probability & Statistics
STAT 337 Quantitative Methods in Bioinformatics (Spring
only)3Bioinformatics ElectivesSelect one of the following: 3BIOL 387Genomics (Spring only)BIOL 392 Metagenomics (Fall only)BIOI 397Bioinformatics SurveyTotal Hours27
1Maybe substituted with  COMP 170 Introduction to Object-Oriented
Programming
Suggested Sequence of Courses
We suggest taking the 100-level or 200-level ﬁrst as they are often
prerequisites for advanced courses. For example, BIOL 101 General
Biology I  is a prerequisite for BIOL 282 Genetics , which, in turn, is a
prerequisite for BIOL 388 Bioinformatics . For assistance with planning
your course sequence for the Bioinformatics minor, please contact your
Academic or Bioinformatics advisor.
Additional Policies
There are no limits to course-sharing  between the Bioinformatics minor
and other majors/minors. However, the course-sharing policies of the
other majors/minors must be considered.
The courses required for the minor also satisfy the following university
Core Curriculum  (p. 1405 ) requirements: scientiﬁc literacy (6 credits) and
quantitative analysis (3 credits).
Learning Outcomes
Students minoring in Bioinformatics will be able to:
•explain genetics concepts,
•apply computational methods to biological data,
•apply statistical methods to biological data, and•evaluate computational & statistical methods for the analysis of
biological data.
Honors in Bioinformatics
Graduating seniors recognized with departmental honors, Honors in
Bioinformatics, excel not only in their coursework but also in their
contributions to the scientiﬁc community. Students earning Honors in
Bioinformatics have:
•an overall GPA at or above 3.5; and
•presented their research at a peer-reviewed conference (area, national
or international non-undergraduate meeting) or co-authored a peer-
reviewed publication.
Note:  GPA requirement must be fulﬁlled the semester prior to
commencement, e.g. Fall semester for Spring commencement.
Conference approval rests with the Program Director.
Biology
The Department of Biology has extensive resources to support superior
teaching and research in all the major areas of contemporary biological
sciences to prepare students for medical school, other graduate or
professional studies, teaching, or careers in industry or government.
The department is housed in the state-of-the-art Michael R. and Marilyn
C. Quinlan Life Sciences Education and Research Center. This innovative
facility features modern teaching and research labs, where students learn
to operate the latest equipment used in scientiﬁc experiments. Students
routinely engage in faculty-guided research with focus areas in Ecology,
Evolution, Developmental Genetics, Bioinformatics, Neuroscience and
Molecular/Cellular Biology.
Major facilities in the Department include electron/confocal microscopy,
micro-CT X-ray scanners, animal/insect care facilities, artiﬁcial streams,
ﬁeld research vehicles/equipment, and greenhouses. The building itself
is energy efﬁcient with sunshades, and the green roof/prairie simulation
helps Chicago manage rainwater. With Lake Michigan just steps away,
students have another natural resource at their ﬁngertips. Students can
access the Loyola University Retreat and Ecology Campus (LUREC) in
Woodstock, Illinois for ﬁeld studies.
Students have access to the Cudahy Library collection, which includes
more than 200,000 volumes, and subscriptions to more than 300
biological journals. Loyola’s electronic research holdings allow world-wide
access to cutting edge research reports and journal articles.
Undergraduate Programs
•Biology (BS)  (p. 299)
•Biology/Bioinformatics (BS/MS)  (p. 1026 )
•Biology/Business (BS/MBA)  (p. 1015 )
•Biology Minor  (p. 302)
•Biology/Secondary Education (BS/MEd)  (p. 1020 )
•Biology with Ecology Emphasis (BS)  (p. 304)
•Biology with Molecular Biology Emphasis (BS)  (p. 308)
•Biostatistics Minor  (p. 310)

--- Page 257 ---
288  Biology
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Biology (BIOL)
BIOL 101   General Biology I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Fundamental principles of Biology including: introduction to the
scientiﬁc method, basic biological chemistry; cell structure and function;
energy transformations; mechanisms of cell communication; cellular
reproduction; and principles of genetics.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics, Bioinformatics, Forensic Science   
Course equivalencies:  ACBIO 101 / BIOL 101   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the historical
foundations, methodologies employed, general architecture and
functioning of the cell - the basic unit of life
BIOL 102   General Biology II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 101 and 111   
A continuation of BIOL 101. Fundamental principles of Biology including:
evolutionary theory; general principles of ecology; study of plant structure
and function; and comparative animal physiology.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics, Forensic Science   
Course equivalencies:  ACBIO 102 / BIOL 102   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the
fundamental principles of ecology and evolution, as well as the anatomy
and physiology of representative plant and animal phyla
BIOL 110   Liberal Arts Biology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 101 or ENVS 137; No requirement for students with a
declared major or minor in the Department of Anthropology, Department
of Biology, Department of Chemistry, Department of Environmental
Science, Department of Physics, Bioinformatics, Forensic Science or
Neuroscience   
Liberal Arts Biology is a second tier core course in the area of Scientiﬁc
Literacy. It covers fundamental principles of biological sciences at a
level for non-science majors. The focus of the course will vary depending
on expertise of the instructor. All instructors will address the same
fundamental principles.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Scientiﬁc Knowledge   
Outcomes:
Students understand the scientiﬁc method, diversity of life, classiﬁcation
of organisms, cell structure and function, the chromosomal and
molecular basis of inheritance, and organ systems of the human body
BIOL 111   General Biology I Lab   (1 Credit Hour)   
Complements General Biology I lecture material through observation,
experimentation, and when appropriate, dissection of representative
organisms. Physical and chemical phenomena of life as well as
systematics and comparative anatomy and physiology of selected
organisms will be examined.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics, Forensic Science   
Course equivalencies:  BIOL 111/ACBIO 111   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the di versity
of living organisms, including comparisons in cell structure and function,
and comparative organismal evolution and ecologyBIOL 112   General Biology II Lab   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 101 and BIOL 111   
Complements General Biology II lecture material through observation,
experimentation, and when appropriate, dissection of representative
organisms. Physical and chemical phenomena of life as well as
systematics and comparative anatomy and physiology of selected
organisms will be examined.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics, Forensic Science   
Course equivalencies:  ACBIO 112 / BIOL 112   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the di versity
of living organisms, including comparisons in cell structure and function,
and comparative organismal evolution and ecology
BIOL 195   Special Topics in Biology   (1-4 Credit Hours)   
Special Topics - Speciﬁc areas of study in the biological sciences.
BIOL 205   Plant Biology Lec/Lab   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 102 and BIOL 112   
Lecture and laboratory. Survey of the principles of botany including
development and reproduction, structure, phylogeny and metabolism. "
Outcomes:
Students will understand the basic morphology of plants; utilize
morphology in the identiﬁcation of local plants; understand the anatomy
of plants; understand the relationship between anatomy and basic
physiology; recognize that differences in physiological function allow
different plants to be found in speciﬁc environments; appreciate the
diversity of organisms called "plants
BIOL 210   Laboratory Techniques   (2 Credit Hours)   
Lab sessions designed to prove a ﬁrm foundation in basic techniques and
procedures, use of equipment and apparatus; keeping a lab notebook and
in data collection and treatment.
Outcomes:
Students will acquire basic skills needed to work in a research laboratory
BIOL 215   Ornithology   (3 Credit Hours)   
An introduction to the biology of birds including the topics of anatomy,
physiology, behavior, ecology and evolution. Includes some ﬁeld trips to
learn how to identify species and to collect behavioral information.
Course equivalencies:  BIOL 215/ENVS 215   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the biology of bi rds and
be able to identify some of the commoner species of birds in our area
BIOL 240   Psychology & Biology of Perception   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101; For Biology majors: BIOL 102, BIOL 112, and
PSYC 101 Introduction to the study of sensory systems, especially vision
and audition, emphasizing historical development of the ﬁeld, multi-
disciplinary scientiﬁc approaches; recent research and theory on the
mechanisms of seeing and hearing; and applications of research to real-
world problems   
BIOL 240 is cross-listed with PSYC 240.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Course equivalencies:  X-PSYC240/BIOL240   

--- Page 258 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 289
BIOL 242   Anatomy and Physiology I   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 102, BIOL 112, and [(CHEM 102 and 112) or CHEM 106
or CHEM 180]   
Lecture, laboratory, and demonstrations. Organization of the human body
from the cellular to the organismal level. Anatomy of body systems and
their physiology related to 1) support and movement (integumentary,
skeletal and muscular systems) and integration and control (nervous and
endocrine systems). Dissection of representative organs is required.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge of human anatomy
at the microscopic and gross levels; Students will be able to correlate
structure and function and will have a ﬁrm understanding of the
organizing principle of human physiology, homeostasis and explain the
role of the nervous and endocrine systems in its maintenance
BIOL 243   Anatomy and Physiology II   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 242   
Lecture, laboratory and demonstrations. A continuation of BIOL 242.
Anatomy of body systems and their physiology related to 1) regulation
and maintenance (cardiovascular, lymphatic respiratory, digestive and
urinary systems) and reproduction and development (male and female
reproductive systems.) Dissection of representative organs is required.
Prerequisites are BIOL 101, 102, 111, 112, BIOL 242 and CHEM 101, 102,
111, 112.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate a comprehensive integrated
knowledge and understanding of human anatomy and physiology at all
levels
BIOL 246   Ancient Human-Animal Interactions   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  For BIOL-BS, BIOL-MINR, and BIOE-BS students: BIOL 102;
for all others: ANTH 101, ANTH 104, BIOL 102, ENVS 101, or ENVS 137   
This course focuses on human-animal interactions in the past an d covers
how humans have shaped the geographic ranges and behaviors of
animals today. Questions on whether humans caused prehistoric animal
extinctions and how animal domestication occurred will be explored
using evidence from archaeological and paleontological records around
the world.
Course equivalencies:  X - ANTH 246 / BIOL 246   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of how archaeologists use
empirical data to answer questions about prehistoric human-animal
interactions
BIOL 251   Cell Biology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Biophysics majors ONL Y: (BIOL 101 and 111) and
(CHEM 102 or CHEM 106 or CHEM 160); All other majors: BIOL 102 and
112) and [(CHEM 102 and 112) or CHEM 106 or CHEM 160]   
This course covers basic molecular and cellular studies of living
organisms, emphasizing the relationships between subcellular structures
and biochemical and physiological functions of cells.
Outcomes:
Students will become familiar with a wide range of cell biological
principles and experimental approaches that led to important discoveries,
gain an appreciation of the scientiﬁc method, and learn about the goals of
modern cell biology research
BIOL 252   Cell Biology Laboratory   (1 Credit Hour)   
Co-requisites:  BIOL 251   
Pre or Laboratory experiences designed to explore relationships between
structure and function of subcellular components.
Outcomes:
Working knowledge of a variety of techniques utilized in the cell biology
laboratoryBIOL 265   Ecology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 102, BIOL 112, and (CHEM 102 or CHEM 106 or
CHEM 160)   
Relationships of organisms to their environment and to each other at the
organism, population, community, and ecosystem levels.
Outcomes:
Students will understand the fundamental principles governing the
interactions of organisms and their environment at the population,
community, and ecosystem levels
BIOL 266   Ecology Laboratory   (1 Credit Hour)   
Co-requisites:  BIOL 265   
Pre or Laboratory and ﬁeld experience designed to illustrate the principles
of ecology and to give students experience in collecting, processing, and
analyzing data. Field trips required.
Course equivalencies:  BIOL266/ESP 266   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the methodology and use techniques in
studying interactions of organisms to the environment and to each other
at the organism, population, community, and ecosystem levels
BIOL 280   Evolution of Human Disease   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 102   
The complex interaction between humans and pathogens is explored
throughout time, with particular emphasis on the role and impact of
human biology, human culture, and changing environments.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH280/BIOL280/BIET280   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the human
immunological system, competing paradigms of human health, the
processes and mechanisms of biological evolution, the pathogeneses
of speciﬁc diseases, and the archaeological, paleopathological,
paleodemographic, and historical data used to explore the evolution of
disease
BIOL 281   Evolution of the Human Diet   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  For BIOL-BS, BIOL-MINR, and BIOE-BS students: BIOL 102;
for all others: ANTH 101 or BIOL 102   
This interdisciplinary course explores the evolution of the human diet
utilizing a biocultural perspective. The complex interplay between our
diet, biology, and culture is examined through energy acquisition, primate
and hominin nutrition, the Agricultural Revolution and Industrialization
on human health, food sustainability, and nutritional inequality through
socioeconomic and gender lenses.
Course equivalencies:  X-BIOL 281/ANTH 281   
Outcomes:
Students will identify the role food has played throughout the 6-7 million
years of human evolution, and its signiﬁcance in terms of climate change
variability, evolutionary adaptations and contemporary inequality

--- Page 259 ---
290  Biology
BIOL 282   Genetics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  For Bioinformatics and Biophysics Majors ONL Y: BIOL 101;
CHEM 102 or CHEM 106 or CHEM 160; For all other majors: BIOL 102,
112; CHEM 102 or CHEM 106 or CHEM 160   
This course surveys principles and processes of genetic inheritance, gene
expression, molecular biology, developmental, quantitative, population
and evolutionary genetics.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics, Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Students will develop knowledge and awareness of the genetic bases
of modern biology; Students will understand Mendelian principles of
inheritance, chromosome and DNA structure and replication, gene
expression, molecular biology, genetic bases of development and other
biological processes, and quantitative, population and evolutionary
genetics
BIOL 283   Genetics Laboratory   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 282; Or corequisite: BIOL 282   
Experiments and demonstrations to illustrate chromosomal structures
and transmission, molecular biology, gene linkage, gene frequencies and
variation.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics, Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Students will develop technical skills and ability to interpret data from a
variety of types of genetics experiments
BIOL 284   Behavioral and Cognitive Neuroscience   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  For BIOL-BS, BIOL-MINR, and BIOE-BS students: BIOL 102
and NEUR 101; For all others: NEUR 101   
Overview of topics and methodologies used in behavioral and cognitive
neuroscience including: attention, learning and memory, language,
reasoning, decision making, intelligence, emotions, social cognition, and
consciousness. BIOL 284 is cross-listed with PSYC 382.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Course equivalencies:  X-PSYC 382/BIOL 284   
Outcomes:
Students will understand theories regarding brain mechanisms,
underlying mental events and the technologies used for studying these
mechanisms
BIOL 296   Introduction to Research   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 102, 112; Permission of the instructor; Biology Core
highly recommended   
Students will begin reading the literature in the ﬁeld of their mentor,
conduct experiments designed by the mentor, and give a presentation
on their work or studies, in preparation for upper level undergraduate
research.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will develop critical reading skills and become familiar with
basic lab techniques in the area of their mentor
BIOL 302   General Microbiology Lec/Lab   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 251 and BIOL 282 Lecture and laboratory   
Fundamental concepts of microbial life, physiology, and metabolism.
Outcomes:
Students will learn the differences between the 3 domains of life and
will comprehend the biochemistry, morphology, growth characteristics,
structure and ecology of microbesBIOL 303   Seminar in Neuroscience   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  NEUR 101 with a grade of C- or better   
The seminar introduces students to the interdisciplinary nature of
modern neuroscience with an emphasis on the various neuroscience
research activities that take place at Loyola University Chicago, and
reviews current neuroscience research topics. BIOL 303 is cross-listed
with NEUR 300.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Course equivalencies:  X-BIOL303/NEUR300   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of the interdisciplinary and
multidisciplinary nature of modern neuroscience, and the research
questions and experimental approaches used at the Lakeshore and
Medical Center campuses
BIOL 304   Intro to Developmental Biology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 251   
The analysis of developmental processes such as; fertilization, embryonic
cleavage, cell determination and cell differentiation in selected species.
Emphasis will be on experiments that reveal how these processes are
controlled at the molecular and cellular levels.
Outcomes:
Students will become familiar with a wide range of developmental biology
principles and experimental approaches that led to important discoveries,
gain an appreciation of the scientiﬁc method, and learn about the goals of
modern developmental biology research
BIOL 307   Biology of Stem Cells   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 251 and BIOL 282   
Stem cell research represents an exciting area of biology. This course will
cover the early discoveries that launched the ﬁeld of stem cell biology, the
different types of stem cells that exist, potential therapeutic uses of stem
cells, and the ethical implications of these discoveries and therapies.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to read primary research articles, describe
different stem cell types and therapeutic uses, and consider the ethical
implications of stem cell research and therapies
BIOL 310   Categorical Data Analysis   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  STAT 203 or STAT 335   
An introduction to modern-day extensions of simple linear regression
and ANOVA to the chi-square test including logistic regression and log-
linear modelling techniques based on generalized linear models. Methods
for matched-pair, small datasets, ordinal and multi-category data also
discussed. This course focuses on applications using real-life data sets,
and uses popular software packages.
BIOL 313   Lab in Psychobiology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (BIOL/STAT 335 or PSYC 304) and (NEUR 101, PSYC/
BIOL 240, or PSYC 382/BIOL 284); OR for PSYC-BS and Cognitive/
Behavioral Neuroscience majors: PSYC 306 and (NEUR 101, PSYC/
BIOL 240, or PSYC 382/BIOL 284) Minimum grades of C-   
A 'hands on' experience with the instrumentation, measurement
techniques and experimental designs used in electrophysiological
studies of nervous system function. BIOL 313 is cross-listed with
PSYC 311.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Course equivalencies:  X-PSYC311/BIOL313   

--- Page 260 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 291
BIOL 315   Introductory Immunology Lec/Lab   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 251 and BIOL 282   
The study of the nature and molecular basis of immune responses.
History and vocabulary of immunology; experiments involving immune
recognition and destruction; theories regarding self-tolerance and
immunological diseases.
Outcomes:
Students will learn the morphology and histology of the cells i nvolved in
an immune response, as well as how the cells develop and the molecular
mechanisms used to recognize and eliminate non-self material; Students
will become familiar with the evasion strategies of pathogens and the
consequences associated with either hyper or hypo-responsiveness
BIOL 316   Limnology Lec/Lab   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 265 and CHEM 102 or CHEM 106 or CHEM 180   
An introduction to the structure and function of lake and stream
ecosystems. The course includes the integration of physical, chemical,
and biological parameters. Laboratories include weekend ﬁeld trips to
aquatic habitats.
Outcomes:
Students will learn methods of sampling and analyzing physical,
chemical and biological factors in lake and stream ecosystems, and how
to integrate these complex data sets to answer ecosystem process-level
questions; Students will learn to evaluate the trophic status and health of
a lake by the end of the course
BIOL 317   Models of Human Disease   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores approaches used to study human diseases from
in vitro to in vivo levels and examines their strengths and weaknesses.
Discussions will cover historical experiments and cutting-edge research
to learn about the techniques used to generate data and how to interpret
the results.
Outcomes:
Students will gain knowledge about human diseases and techniques
used to model aspects of those diseases in the laboratory
BIOL 318   General Virology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 251 & BIOL 282   
This course covers the molecular details of viral infection and the diverse
strategies used by these pathogens to invade cells and avoid immune
clearance. The focus will be on mammalian viruses of biomedical
relevance.
Course equivalencies:  BIOL 318 / BIOL 218   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate detailed understanding of basic viral
structure, basic viral replication/infection cycles, and speciﬁc examples
of viruses and their infection strategies
BIOL 319   Evolution   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 282; BIOL 265 recommended   
This course focuses on analysis of processes and patterns of evolution.
Topics include population genetic principles, fossil patterns and geologic
ages, phylogenetic analysis of relationships of species, experimental
approaches to evolutionary questions, and evolutionary perspectives on
human biology and relationships.
Outcomes:
Students will develop knowledge and awareness of evolutionary
processes and patterns, the evidence for them, and how evolutionary
hypotheses are tested experimentally; They will develop an appreciation
of the primary literature through reading and discussing research articlesBIOL 320   Animal Behavior   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 101 or ANTH 103; or BIOL 102 & BIOL 112   
This course examines the biological basis of animal behavior including
function and evolution of behavior patterns. Mechanisms and the
adaptive signiﬁcance of behaviors are examined and analyzed. BIOL 320
is cross-listed with ANTH 320.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH320/BIOL320/ESP 320   
Outcomes:
Students will have an understanding of both proximate and ultimate
causes of a broad array of behaviors in animals and their implications for
the life histories of those animals
BIOL 321   Great Transitions in Vertebrate History   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 265   
The major vertebrate groups-ﬁsh, amphibians, reptiles, birds, and
mammals-arose through great transitions in size and form. These
transitions opened up previously inaccessible habitats for those groups
to radiate throughout, creating the remarkable diversity we observe
today. In this class, students will learn about the major transitions that
occurred in vertebrate history within the context of Earth's geological
history. Students will also learn about the adaptive changes in anatomy
and life history that have allowed those radiations to successfully radiate
in those habitats. Students will also learn about species whose unique
attributes allow them to occupy the most extreme habitats on earth, such
as the deep sea, arctic, and high elevation habitats.
Outcomes:
Learn the major radiations of vertebrates and their evolutionary
relationships, the general characteristics of the major organ systems in
those radiations, the major evolutionary transitions that occurred during
vertebrate history, and how changes in ecology, life history, and anatomy
change during organismal evolution
BIOL 323   Comparative Anatomy Lec/Lab   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 251, BIOL 282   
A study of homologous systems and vertebrate phylogeny in both lecture
and lab.
Outcomes:
Students will understand the evolutionary relationships and processes
that are involved in the development of vertebrate anatomy
BIOL 325   Primatology-Behavior & Ecology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 101 or any 100-level Biology course   
This course examines primate behavior and ecology from a comparative
and evolutionary perspective. Students will be introduced to the diversity
across taxonomic groups within the Order Primates. Through class
discussion and observation, students will explore key issues in primate
studies. Students will develop and apply skills in primate observation.
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH325/BIOL325/ESP 325   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to describe the taxonomic diversity of non-human
primates and explain the impact of biological, evolutionary, and ecological
factors on primate behavior

--- Page 261 ---
292  Biology
BIOL 326   Human Osteology Lec/Lab   (4 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on developing a deep understanding of the human
skeleton and ways in which biological anthropologists and forensic
anthropologists use this knowledge to explore human biological diversity.
Through hands-on exercises and class discussion, students will build
analytical skills that are foundational to many techniques used by
professionals and will appreciate the complex ethical considerations
inherent to the ﬁelds of biological and forensic anthropology. Pre-
requisites: BIOL 102 and BIOL 112; ANTH 101 or ANTH 103.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH326/BIOL326   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate superior knowledge of skeletal
anatomy, analyses of skeletal remains from archaeological contexts, and
apply current techniques designed to understand and explore human
variation, stature, ancestry, age-at-death, sex, and pathological conditions
BIOL 327   Wetland Ecology   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 265   
An introduction to the study of wetlands habitats. This course includes
discussion of physical and chemical factors, biota, production and
community dynamics. Laboratories include several ﬁeld trips to regional
wetland habitats.
Course equivalencies:  BIOL327/ESP 327   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the functioning of wetlands, become aw are of
the variety of wetlands and become familiar with wetland biota, especially
wetland plants
BIOL 328   Conservation Biology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 265   
This course explores species diversity, natural and human induced
extinctions, environmental ethics, and conservation practices being
developed at the population, community, and ecosystem levels.
Course equivalencies:  X-BIOL328/ESP 330   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to describe conservation strategies being used by
institutions around the world and understand the ecological theory that
supports those strategies
BIOL 329   Winter Ecology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 265 or permission of instructor   
The goal for Winter Ecology is to teach you about ecosystems in winter
by immersing you in the winter environment at LUREC during J-term.
Topics include the habitats on, in, and under snow, the morphological,
physiological, life cycle modiﬁcations of temperate plants, and the winter
adaptations of birds.
Course equivalencies:  X-ENVS 319/BIOL 329   
Outcomes:
Students will gain understanding of habitats and organisms present
during winter in temperate ecosystems and gain experience with ﬁeld
techniques employed when studying these ecosystems
BIOL 330   Global Change Biology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 265 or ENVS 280   
Human activities are changing our planet to such an extent that
scientists have proposed we are in a new geological epoch, the
'Anthropocene'. Through lectures, discussions, and group projects we will
examine key elements of global change including biodiversity loss, land-
use alterations, climate change, and pollution.
Outcomes:
Learn global element cycles that drive biological processes; Read,
critique, and discuss primary scientiﬁc literatureBIOL 335   Intro to Biostatistics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 102, MATH 132 or MATH 162 (as pre-requisite or co-
requisite) or MATH 162A; Students may take MATH 162 as a prerequisite
for STAT/BIOL 335 or take it concurrently as a corequisite with STAT/
BIOL 335; For Bioinformatics Majors: only BIOL 101, MATH 132 or
MATH 162 (as pre-requisite or co-requisite) or MATH 162A   
An introduction to statistical methods used in designing biological
experiments and in data analyses. Topics include probability and
sampling distribution, designed biological experiments and analysis of
variance, regression and correlation, stochastic processes, and frequency
distributions. Computer laboratory assignments with biological data.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Course equivalencies:  X-BIOL335/STAT335   
BIOL 336   Advanced Biostatistics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  STAT 203 or STAT 335   
This course provides an overview of advanced topics in applied statistics
with particular application in biology and medicine, including the
interpretation of Minitab, SAS and S-Plus computer output.
Course equivalencies:  X-STAT336/BIOL336   
Outcomes:
Students interested in applied statistical methods will obtain skill in
experimental design, linear regression, categorical data analysis and
logistic analysis, nonlinear regression, bioassay and drug synergy
methods, as well as multivariate and survival statistical methods
BIOL 337   Quantitative Methods in Bioinformatics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  STAT 203 or STAT 335   
This course develops the mathematical and statistical methods
necessary to analyze and interpret genomic and proteomic data,
including signal analysis, sequence alignment methods, data-bas e search
methods useful in bioinformatics and data mining.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics   
Course equivalencies:  XSTAT337/BIOL337/BIOI337   
Outcomes:
Students will obtain the quantitative skills used in BLAST , including
inference, stochastic processes and hidden Markov models, random
walks, microarray analysis and biological sequence analysis
BIOL 340   Natural History of Belize   (3 Credit Hours)   
This Study Abroad ﬁeld course is designed to build on the foundations
learned in Ecology, Environmental Science, and Anthropology classes by
examining the biodiversity and tropical ecosystems of Belize, by exploring
the cultural traditions of some of its peoples, particularly the Mayans; and
learn how local communities are involved in protecting and sustaining
ecological and natural sites through community based conservation
and sustainability practices Enrollment Conditions: For Environmental
Science or Environmental Studies Majors/Minors: ENVS 137 For Biology
Majors/Minors: BIOL 102 & 112 For Anthropology or International Studies
Majors/Minors: Junior or Senior Standing
Course equivalencies:  X - ENVS 340 /BIOL 340   
Outcomes:
Provide a working understanding of the structure, function, and ecology
of tropical ecosystems; their importance to local communities; and the
social dimensions of environmental issues, especially those related to
justice

--- Page 262 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 293
BIOL 341   Histology Lec/Lab   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 251 and BIOL 282   
This course examines the microscopic anatomy of the four basic adult
tissue types and how they are arranged and utilized in the construction of
the major vertebrate organ systems.
Outcomes:
The major learning objectives for this course are (1) to become familiar
with the gross and microscopic anatomy of cells, tissues and organs and
(2) to understand how these anatomical features correlate with speciﬁc
physiological functions
BIOL 342   Human Anatomy   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 242, BIOL 243, BIOL 251, BIOL 282; CHEM 222 or
CHEM 224 or (CHEM 240 pre-req and CHEM 260 co-req)   
A mixed lecture and laboratory course providing an in-depth look at the
human body at the level of gross anatomy.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Students will acquire an advanced understanding of the structure and
relationships of major organ systems in the human body
BIOL 344   Microbial Evolution and Human Well-being   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 282   
The course explores the many ways, both positive and negative, that the
evolution of bacteria, viruses, and other microbes affects humans. Topics
include infectious disease, the human microbiome, food production, and
environmental microbes. The course is centered around reading and
analyzing primary literature.
Outcomes:
Students will apply fundamental evolutionary principles to microbes,
understand the broad relevance of microbial evolution to human life, and
read and communicate about primary literature on the topic
BIOL 346   Biology of Women   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the anatomy and physiology of women at
different and critical times in their life span. This course also addresses
social issues that effect women at different points in their life. Topics
include the evolution of sex, gender differentiation, and reproduction.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  BIOL346/WOST346/ANTH346/WSGS   
Outcomes:
Students will learn about the biology of the female system, and how it
changes with age; Students will also learn through discussions and guest
lectures the interplay between society, medicine and gender
BIOL 347   Bird Conservation and Ecology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 137 or BIOL 102   
This engaged-learning course provides an introduction to the theory
and practice of avian conservation, ecology and management. Field
trips for viewing birds in the wild, observing behavior and collecting
data on habitat assessments are highlighted. Students participate in
a community service project to gather data for avian conservation and
management.
Course equivalencies:  X-ENVS 267/BIOL 347   
Outcomes:
Students will become skilled in critical reasoning and some bird
monitoring techniques, and demonstrate an understanding of the many
facets of bird conservationBIOL 348   Field Ornithology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 280 & ENVS 286 or BIOL 265 & BIOL 266 (BIOL 215
recommended but not required)   
Field ornithology is an intensive 3-week engaged-learning course at the
Loyola University Retreat and Ecology Campus during the peak of the
migratory season intended to provide an introduction to the theory and
practice of ﬁeld ornithology. Emphasis will be on ﬁeld identiﬁcation and
song recognition, census techniques, and avian behavior.
Course equivalencies:  X- ENVS 369/BIOL 348   
Outcomes:
Students will become skilled in critical reasoning, ﬁeld techniques, and
scientiﬁc investigation that demonstrate an understanding of knowledge
and techniques used in ﬁeld ornithology
BIOL 349   Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical Ecosystems   (3
Credit Hours)   
This course provides an introduction to conservation ecology in
Neotropical ecosystems via classroom sessions and experiential learning
activities during a Spring-Break ﬁeld trip to Belize. Students will gain
experience in environmental monitoring and biological survey methods.
Ecosystems studied: coral reefs, mangrove forests, subtropical rain
and dry forests, savannas, rivers, wetlands. Enrollment Conditions: For
Biology Majors/Minors: BIOL 265; For Environmental Science Majors:
ENVS 280
Course equivalencies:  X- ENVS 345/ BIOL 349   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of tropical climates, neotropical
terrestrial/aquatic ecosystems and applied conservation and
environmental practices such as nature reserve design and management,
community-based resource management, ecotourism, and ecoagriculture
BIOL 350   Vertebrate Physiology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 251, BIOL 282, and (CHEM 180 or CHEM 102 or
CHEM 106)   
This is an introduction to the physiology of marine, freshwater, and
terrestrial vertebrates. Understanding how physiological concepts
are manifested by animals facing different environmental challenges
is emphasized. Topics to be covered include metabolism and energy
balance, nervous and endocrine function, respiration, circulation, water
balance and ionic regulation, and excretion.
Outcomes:
Compare and contrast how various vertebrates utilize major organ
systems to maintain homeostasis; Describe how common physiological
principles are manifested through vertebrates' adaptation to their
environments
BIOL 351   Sleep/Circadian Rhythms   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 251, BIOL 282, NEUR 101   
We will cover circadian rhythms one very prominent circadian-regulated
behavior: sleep. We will investigate these topics at several different
levels, spanning from cellular and molecular mechanisms to systems
and behavioral approaches, and ﬁnally will look at pathologies of these
systems that lead to human disorders.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Outcomes:
Students will become familiar with a variety of model systems used to
study circadian rhythms, and learn how to critically read primary literature
and lead discussions of this reading

--- Page 263 ---
294  Biology
BIOL 352   Neurobiology of Feeding in Health and Disease   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  NEUR 101, BIOL 251   
Multiple interconnecting systems, coupling the brain with the rest
of the body, signal the need to consume food and when to stop. The
overall aim of the course is to understand what drives us to eat and how
dysregulation within these brain circuits underlies the contemporary
obesity crisis.
Outcomes:
By completing this course, students will achieve an advanced
understanding of the fundamental principles that govern the brain's
control of energy homeostasis
BIOL 353   Natural History of Vertebrates   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 265   
The objective of the course is to provide an in-depth study of the
vertebrates in the Midwestern U.S. Topics will include the origin and
evolution of vertebrates, and their ecology, behavior and specializations.
The lab will focus on identiﬁcation of vertebrate taxa and learning wildlife
sampling techniques.
Outcomes:
Understand speciﬁcs of ecology, behavior, life history, evolution and
conservation of all vertebrate taxa; Read, analyze, interpret, and discuss
peer-reviewed literature
BIOL 354   Mammalian Reproduction   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 251   
Anatomy and physiology of male and female reproductive systems,
fertilization, implantation, pregnancy, and birth; immunological aspects of
reproduction.
Outcomes:
Students will understand structure/function relationships in reproductive
biology and how reproductive systems are regulated at cellular levels
BIOL 355   Parasitology Lec/Lab   (4 Credit Hours)   
A study of animal parasites, their distribution, structure, adaptations, life
cycles, and host relationships.
Outcomes:
Students will learn to recognize the major groups of animal parasites, be
able to explain their life cycles and describe the mechanisms that hosts
use to ward off parasite infestation
BIOL 356   The Evolution of Animal Sex   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 251 and BIOL 282   
Among animals, sex cannot be simpliﬁed down to X's and Y's, or even
males and females. Sex is diverse and dynamic. The class will discuss
modern research around three themes: 1) sexual differentiation, 2) animal
weapons and ornaments, and 3) reproduction and mating systems.
Outcomes:
Students will gain a deeper appreciation of the sexual diversity among
animals at genetic, physiological, morphological and behavioral levelsBIOL 357   Neural Disease, Degeneration, and Regeneration   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 251, BIOL 282, NEUR 101   
This course offers an overview of cellular and molecular mechanisms
underlying common neurodegenerative disorders. Mechanisms of
neuronal cell death and application of stem cells in CNS regeneration
will also be covered. Students will learn by reading assigned background
materials and research articles, and participating in class discussions.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Outcomes:
Students will understand current advances of genetic, developmental,
molecular, and cellular mechanisms underlying the neurodegenerative
diseases; Students will also learn how disease mechanisms affect neural
function, cognition, and behavior
BIOL 358   Developmental Neurobiology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 251, BIOL 282, NEUR 101   
This course focuses on cellular and molecular underpinnings of the
development of neuronal features of the nervous system. Topics include
neural induction and subsequent differentiation events, regulation of
neuronal survival, axon guidance, target selection, and synaptogenesis.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Outcomes:
Students will become familiar with principles of neural development and
the studies that led to those principles; Students will also learn how to
critically read primary research papers and present these papers to the
class
BIOL 359   Paleopathology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 251 and ANTH 326 or BIOL 326   
Normal bone tissue and normal bone alterations and the impact of
various disease processes on skeletal tissue. Students will be taught to
assess and interpret patterns of human disease in processual rather than
typological terms.
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH359/BIOL359   
Outcomes:
Students will have command of biological anthropological approaches
towards the understanding of human disease and will be familiar with
theoretical issues germane to the ﬁeld of paleopathology, biases and
ethical issues, and the role that disease has played throughout human
history
BIOL 360   Field Biology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 265 and permission of chair   
Ecological study of an area in North America outside Midwest. Includes a
ﬁeld trip to a speciﬁc region. Trip is at student expense. "
Outcomes:
Students will become familiar with an ecosystem outside the Chicago
Region; gain a ﬁrst-hand understanding of the interrelationships of
living things and their environment; develop a loving appreciation of
"wilderness
BIOL 362   Neurobiology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  NEUR 101 and BIOL 251   
The purpose of this course is to introduce major principles and concepts
of modern neurobiology. An emphasis is placed upon an understanding
of the electrophysiology of the neuron and the manner in which groups
of neurons are organized into functional nervous systems subserving
sensory, motor or integrative functions.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Outcomes:
Student will gain a sold foundation in nervous system structure and
function

--- Page 264 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 295
BIOL 363   Entomology Lec/Lab   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 265   
An introductory course that covers the morphology, metamorphosis,
classiﬁcation and biology of the major insect groups. The laboratory
includes dissection and the use of analytical keys and ﬁgures to identify
insect taxa. Field trips and student collections add to the lab oratory
experience.
Outcomes:
Students will learn to identify major insect groups in the ﬁeld and in the
laboratory; They will also learn to distinguish immature insects from adult
insects and to recognize the numerous beneﬁcial insects as well as the
small number that are detrimental
BIOL 365   Writing a Scientiﬁc Manuscript   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 102, BIOL 112   
A Process from Data Collection to Writing a Scientiﬁc Manuscript. This
course is designed for upper level students interested in practicing the
scientiﬁc process; including hypothesis construction, experimental
design, data collection, and writing of a scientiﬁc paper detailing
Introduction, Methods, Results and Discussion.
Outcomes:
Students would learn to develop hypotheses, design experiments based
on those hypotheses, analyze data, and learn to construct and peer-
review a scientiﬁc manuscript
BIOL 366   Cell Physiology & Biochemistry   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Bioinformatics majors: CHEM 224 or CHEM 222 or
(CHEM 240 pre-req and CHEM 260 co-req); All other majors: BIOL 251 &
CHEM 224 or CHEM 222 or (CHEM 240 pre-req and CHEM 260 co-req)   
An introduction to biochemical principles as they relate to major
biological themes such as the relationship between cellular structure and
function, metabolism, thermodynamics, regulation, information pathways,
and evolution. BIOL 366 is cross-listed with CHEM 361.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Course equivalencies:  X-BIOL366/BIOI366/CHEM361   
Outcomes:
Students will study the basic concepts of biochemistry and will
understand how thermodynamics govern biochemical processes;
Catalytic strategies, as well as the major pathways of both anabolism and
catabolism, will also be learned
BIOL 366L   Cell Physiology & Biochemistry Lab   (3 Credit Hours)   
Introduction to modern techniques and instrumentation with an
emphasis on cellular metabolism and protein biochemistry including
puriﬁcation and quantitation methods and enzyme kinetics.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Proﬁciency in performing a variety of biochemical assays and the ability
to write up results as a formal lab report
BIOL 367   Bioimaging   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 251 and BIOL 282; PHYS 112 or PHYS 114; Instructor
Permission   
This course focuses on light microscopy but also includes a section on
Electron Microscopy. Topics include basic optical theory, history, sample
preparation, microscope operation, digital image acquisition and analysis.
Outcomes:
Students will become adept at producing publication quality images
using a variety of imaging techniques; Students will also learn how to
correctly interpret results and properly present their dataBIOL 368   Plant Ecology Lec/Lab   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 265   
Focuses on plant population dynamics; plant-animal interactions,
including herbivory, pollination, dispersal; plant community dynamics,
such as the processes of succession; and the effect of global climate
on the distribution of major vegetation types. The laboratory is divided
between weekend ﬁeld trips to local forests, prairies and bogs, and
laboratory studies.
Outcomes:
Students will achieve familiarity with major vegetation types and
especially with local vegetation and natural areas; understand the
dynamics of plant communities; understand the nature of research in
plant ecology and gain familiarity with the primary literature; understand
environmental issues as they relate to plant ecology
BIOL 369   Invertebrate Biology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Broad survey of invertebrates including morphology, physiology, ecology,
evolution, and systematics.
BIOL 370   Ichthyology Lec/Lab   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 265   
Lecture and laboratory and/or ﬁeld trips. Systematics, phylogeny,
anatomy, physiology, behavior, functional morphology and ecology of
ﬁshes. Includes ﬁeld collecting trips in Lake Michigan and local streams
and lakes and individual projects/research papers.
Outcomes:
Students will develop a detailed understanding of a range of topics in ﬁsh
biology, with special emphasis on evolutionary relationships
BIOL 373   Laboratory in Neuroscience I   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  NEUR 101, BIOL 251; and students must be either
a Molecular/Cellular Neuroscience Major, a Cognitive/Behavioral
Neuroscience major, or a Neuroscience Minor   
Students will be trained in various anatomical, physiological, behavioral,
and neurobiological modeling techniques used to study the nervous
system and the brain in the laboratory. This course is cross-listed as
NEUR 301 & PSYC 388.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Course equivalencies:  X-NEUR301/PSYC388/BIOL373   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of several research designs and
methodologies of use in neuroscience research and will gain experience
with basic neuroscience laboratory techniques
BIOL 375   Aquatic Insects Lecture & Laboratory   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 265   
This course focuses on the classiﬁcation and ecology of insects that
have become fully or partially adapted to the aquatic environment.
Emphasis will be on the ecology and biology (behavior, physiology and
phylogeny) of aquatic insects. The course includes laboratory ﬁeld trips
to local and upper Midwest aquatic habitats.
Outcomes:
Students will acquire an understanding of the ecological relationships
between aquatic insects and their physical and biological environment,
including their interactions with humans

--- Page 265 ---
296  Biology
BIOL 376   Seminar in Molecular/Cellular Neuroscience   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 282 and BIOL 362   
This lecture/discussion will span synaptic plasticity, modern approaches
to studying neural circuits, and the therapeutic potential of neural stem
cells. Students become familiar with principles of molecular/cellular
approaches to the study of the nervous system through review articles
and the primary literature.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Outcomes:
Students will become familiar with principles of molecular/cellular
approaches to the study of the nervous system; Students will also learn
how to evaluate primary literature
BIOL 377   Molecular Pathogenesis   (3 Credit Hours)   
Introduction to the molecular mechanisms of disease pathology and
therapeutic and control strategies, using a particular disease as model.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to explain the molecular basis for particular disease
symptoms, understand therapeutic strategies, and use experimental
results to form conclusions about disease molecular mechanisms
BIOL 378   Dental Anthropology   (0 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 101 or any 100-level Biology course   
This course examines teeth with an anthropological perspective. By using
evolution by natural selection as our theoretical framework, students will
learn dental anatomy, morphology, and variation. The course then focuses
on embryology, dental development and eruption, and the biocultural
ways humans use their teeth.
Course equivalencies:  X- ANTH 327/BIOL 378   
Outcomes:
Students will gain factual knowledge of teeth from an evolutionary
perspective and will develop speciﬁc hands-on skills needed by dental
anthropologists, dentists, and oral biologists including dental molding,
casting, and wear scoring
BIOL 378B   Biological Topics for Bioethics Minor Capstone   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Two prior science courses and two prior ethics courses
required   
The interdisciplinary team-taught Bioethics capstone course examines
a topic in bioethics from both scientiﬁc and ethical points of view.
Topics may include bio-technologies, concepts of race and gender, the
environment, reproduction, and others. This course number provides
an elective for Biology students when the Bioethics capstone's topic is
biological.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the connection between ethical and biological
issues with regard to the special topic in biology
BIOL 379B   Biological Topics for Bioethics Minor Capstone   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Two prior science courses and two prior ethics courses   
The interdisciplinary team-taught Bioethics capstone course examines
a topic in bioethics from both scientiﬁc and ethical points of view.
Topics may include biotechnologies, concepts of race and gender, the
environment, reproduction, and others. This course number provides
an elective for Biology students when the Bioethics capstone's topic is
biological.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the connection between ethical and biological
issues with regard to the special topic in biologyBIOL 380   Genetics and Evolution of Development   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores the evolution of the embryo and the patterns of
gene regulation and morphogenesis that drive early development. Topics
include evolution of nervous system patterning, shared human, mouse
and frog regulatory systems and evolution of human genetic syndromes.
Outcomes:
Students will master the stages and regulation of development in a
number of organisms through use of primary literature; Evidence of
their mastery will be seen through grant writing exercises, in class
presentations and conventional exams
BIOL 381   Epigenetics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 251 and BIOL 282; CHEM 222 or CHEM 224 or
(CHEM 240 pre-req and CHEM 260 co-req)   
This course will introduce students to epigenetic mechanisms operating
throughout life, which include chromatin regulation, DNA methylation,
histone modiﬁcations and non-coding RNAs. Students will gain an
appreciation of how different cell types can maintain drastically different
gene expression patterns yet share the exact same DNA sequences.
Outcomes:
Students will understand epigenetic mechanisms, apply insights gained
to evaluate the effect of epigenetic changes in development, disease and
aging, and learn how to lead a class discussion
BIOL 382   Molecular Genetics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 251 and 282; CHEM 222 or CHEM 224 or (CHEM 240
pre-req and CHEM 260 co-req)   
This course covers the molecular details of genetic processes such as
DNA replication, RNA and protein synthesis, gene regulation and genome
organization.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate a detailed understanding of (1)
basic molecular techniques, (2) the macromolecules involved in genetic
processes, and (3) published experiments that underlie our knowledge of
these processes
BIOL 383   Population Genetics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 282 and MATH 132 or MATH 162; BIOL 235 is
recommended   
Fundamental principles of population, ecological, and evolutionary
genetics, including molecular evolution and analysis of the genetic
structure of populations.
Outcomes:
Students develop knowledge and awareness of population genetic
theory and information; They learn how to apply basic tools of population
genetic analysis
BIOL 384   Microbial Pathogenesis of Infectious Disease   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 251 (Cell Biology) and BIOL 282 (Genetics) each with
a C or higher   
The course is focused on teaching students the way bacteria, viruses,
fungi, and pathogens, can adhere, invade, replicate, and cause damage
and disease in their hosts. The course focuses on the technique s used by
researchers to ask questions about these processes.
Outcomes:
Students will understand the ways pathogens cause disease, read and
review primary literature, and apply techniques used in a grant proposal
on a topic of their interest

--- Page 266 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 297
BIOL 385   Prin Electron Microscopy Lec/Lab   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Permission of instructor, BIOL 341 recommended   
This course focuses on the various areas of Electron Microscopy,
both Scanning and Transmission. Topics include sample preparation,
microscope operation, image acquisition using photographic and digital
techniques, history and development, and new and special techniques.
Outcomes:
Student will become adept with the various techniques needed to
produce research quality electron micrographs; Students will also learn
how to correctly interpret their results, and properly present their data
BIOL 386   Human Genetics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 282   
Students will learn the foundations of human complex trait genetics in
this course-based undergraduate research experience. They will analyze
and discuss primary literature in human genetics, understand how our
genes do and do not influence human differences, apply software tools
used in the ﬁeld, and gain experience in oral and written presentation of
research.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Learn the foundations of human complex trait genetics; Analyze and
discuss primary literature in human genetics; Begin applying the scripting
and software tools used in the ﬁeld; Design, implement, and evaluate a
guided genome-wide analysis of a human phenotype; Gain experience in
oral and written presentations of research
BIOL 387   Genomics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Genomics is the compilation, characterization, and evaluation of DNA
sequence information and its integration with established methods and
genetic knowledge. This course will introduce the students to the study
of genome structure and function and its application to biomedicine,
agriculture, and evolution.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics   
Course equivalencies:  X-BIOL387/BIOI387   
Outcomes:
Students will acquire an in-depth knowledge of the nature of gene and
genome structure, function, and evolution as well as the methods used
to obtain and evaluate this knowledge; Students will be able to create
meaningful web-based database search strategies and interpret the
signiﬁcance of results
BIOL 388   Bioinformatics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students will engage in the applications of computer-based tools and
database searching to better understand the ﬁelds of genetics, genomics,
evolutionary biology, and personalized medicine. Students will be
introduced to scripting programming languages for analyzing biological
data sets.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics   
Course equivalencies:  X-BIOL388/COMP381/BIOI388   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to appropriately use computer software and
databases to accurately analyze biological data and interpret the results,
applying their understanding of genetic processesBIOL 389   Introduction to Pharmacology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 243, BIOL 251, BIOL 282; CHEM 222 or CHEM 224 or
(CHEM 240 pre-req & CHEM 260 co-req)   
Principles and mechanisms of drug action. Topics discussed include
drug-receptor interaction, pharmacokinetics, drug distribution,
metabolism, and neuro-transmission, blood-brain barrier, and toxicology.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to describe the cellular and molecular mechanisms
of action for a variety of the most commonly used drugs in current
medical use
BIOL 390   Molecular Biology Laboratory   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Bioinformatics majors: BIOL 282 & BIOL 283 and CHEM 222
or CHEM 224 or (CHEM 240 pre-req and CHEM 260 co-req); All other
majors: BIOL 251, BIOL 282, BIOL 283 and CHEM 222 or CHEM 224 or
(CHEM 240 pre-req and CHEM 260 co-req)   
This course is an intensive laboratory course in the basic principles and
techniques of molecular biology, including bacterial cloning, polymerase
chain reaction, restriction mapping, agarose gel electrophoresis, and DNA
sequencing.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics, Neuroscience   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  X-BIOL390/BIOI390   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate basic molecular biology skills
including manipulation of bacterial cultures and DNA, plasmid minipreps,
gel electrophoresis, cloning, polymerase chain reaction, and other
molecular techniques that may be speciﬁc to their chosen independent
projects
BIOL 391   Forensic Molecular Biology Lecture and Lab   (5 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 282, BIOL 283 & FRSC-BS Major   
This course prepares students to work in forensic DNA analysis. The
lectures cover the basic aspects of DNA structure and function while
the laboratory gives students experience with the techniques and
instruments used in forensic DNA analysis.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Course equivalencies:  BIOL 391/FRSC 371   
Outcomes:
Students will have a strong theoretical understanding of STR marker
origin, population biology, and legal uses, and will be able to isolate and
process DNA for STR scoring
BIOL 392   Metagenomics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 282   
Exploration of next-generation sequencing technologies for assessing
microbial diversity in ecological niches.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will gain hands-on experience with metagenomic
methodologies while working in an interdisciplinary, collaborative setting
BIOL 394   Special Topics in Biology Laboratory   (1-4 Credit Hours)   
Laboratory. Special areas of study outside the usual curriculum, that vary
each time the course is offered.
Outcomes:
Students will master a unique topic in biology
BIOL 394E   Special Topics in Biology Laboratory (Ecology Emph)   (1-4
Credit Hours)   
Laboratory. Special areas of study related to ecology outside the usual
curriculum, that vary each time the course is offered.
Outcomes:
Students will master a unique topic in biology related to ecology

--- Page 267 ---
298  Biology
BIOL 394M   Special Topics in Biology Laboratory (Molecular Emph)   (1-4
Credit Hours)   
Laboratory. Special areas of study related to molecular biology outside
the usual curriculum, that vary each time the course is offered.
Outcomes:
Students will master a unique topic in biology related to molecular
biology
BIOL 395   Special Topics in Biology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Special areas of study outside the usual curriculum, that vary each time
the course is offered.
Outcomes:
Students will master a unique topic in biology
BIOL 395E   Special Topics in Biology (Ecology Emph)   (3 Credit Hours)   
Special areas of study related to ecology outside the usual curriculum,
that vary each time the course is offered.
Outcomes:
Students will master a unique topic in biology related to ecology
BIOL 395L   Special Topics Laboratory   (1-4 Credit Hours)   
Laboratory. Special areas of study outside the usual curriculum, that vary
each time the course is offered.
Outcomes:
Students will master a unique topic in biology
BIOL 395M   Special Topics in Biology (Molecular Emph)   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Special areas of study related to molecular biology outside the usual
curriculum, that vary each time the course is offered.
Outcomes:
Students will master a unique topic in biology related to molecular
biology
BIOL 396   Research   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 296 (minimum 1 credit), Permission of Instructor;
Contract Required   
Laboratory or ﬁeld research under faculty guidance emphasizing
hypothesis testing, literature searches, experimental design, and use of
appropriate techniques.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  BIOL299/BIOL396   
Outcomes:
Students will learn the full set of research skills required in doing an
independent project and reporting the results
BIOL 396E   Research (Ecology Emph)   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 296 (minimum 1 credit), Permission of Instructor;
Contract Required   
Laboratory or ﬁeld research related to ecology under faculty guidance
emphasizing hypothesis testing, literature searches, experimental design,
and use of appropriate techniques.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will learn the full set of research skills required in doing an
independent project related to ecology and reporting the resultsBIOL 396M   Research (Molecular Emph)   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 296 (minimum 1 credit), Permission of Instructor;
Contract Required   
Laboratory or ﬁeld research related to molecular biology under
faculty guidance emphasizing hypothesis testing, literature searches,
experimental design, and use of appropriate techniques.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will learn the full set of research skills required in doing an
independent project related to molecular biology and reporting the results
BIOL 397   Course-Based Undergraduate Research Experience in
Biology   (1-4 Credit Hours)   
Laboratory. Special areas of study outside the usual curriculum, that vary
each time the course is offered. Students will be working on research
contributing to current scientiﬁc questions in the noted special topic
area.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  Biol 397H /Biol 397   
Outcomes:
Students will plan and execute appropriate experimental or observational
methods, and evaluate the results to address a research question or
explore a biological phenomenon; Students will review the scientiﬁc
literature, and then use the appropriate language and style to
communicate their ﬁndings effectively to targeted audiences
BIOL 397E   Course-based Undergraduate Research Experience in Biology
(Ecology Emph)   (1-4 Credit Hours)   
Laboratory. Special areas of study outside the usual curriculum related
to ecology, that vary each time the course is offered. Students will be
working on research contributing to current scientiﬁc questions in the
noted special topic area.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will plan and execute appropriate experimental or observational
methods, and evaluate the results to address a research question or
explore a biological phenomenon related to ecology; Students will review
the scientiﬁc literature, and then use the appropriate language and style
to communicate their ﬁndings effectively to targeted audiences
BIOL 397M   Course-based Undergraduate Research Experience in Biology
(Molecular Emph)   (1-4 Credit Hours)   
Laboratory. Special areas of study outside the usual curriculum related to
molecular biology, that vary each time the course is offered. Students will
be working on research contributing to current scientiﬁc questions in the
noted special topic area.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will plan and execute appropriate experimental or observational
methods, and evaluate the results to address a research question or
explore a biological phenomenon related to molecular biology; Students
will review the scientiﬁc literature, and then use the appropriate language
and style to communicate their ﬁndings effectively to targeted audiences
BIOL 398   Internship in Biology   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Permission of Instructor; Contract required   
A supervised ﬁeld placement intended to give students training or work
experience in aspects of biology that cannot be obtained on campus.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will acquire practical experience in biology-related job settings

--- Page 268 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 299
BIOL 398E   Internship in Biology (Ecology Emph)   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Permission of Instructor; Contract required   
A supervised ﬁeld placement intended to give students training or work
experience in aspects of biology related to ecology that cannot be
obtained on campus.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will acquire practical experience in ecology-related job settings
BIOL 398M   Internship in Biology (Molecular Emph)   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Permission of Instructor; Contract required   
A supervised ﬁeld placement intended to give students training or work
experience in aspects of biology related to molecular biology that cannot
be obtained on campus.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will acquire practical experience in molecular biology-related job
settings
BIOL 399   Individual Study   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Directed study of a speciﬁc topic by an individual student studying with a
single faculty member.
Outcomes:
Students will master a unique topic in biology
BIOL 399E   Individual Study (Ecology Emph)   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Directed study of a speciﬁc topic related to ecology by an individual
student studying with a single faculty member.
Outcomes:
Students will master a unique topic in biology related to ecology
BIOL 399M   Individual Study (Molecular Emph)   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Directed study of a speciﬁc topic related to molecular biology by an
individual student studying with a single faculty member.
Outcomes:
Students will master a unique topic in biology related to molecular
biology
Biology (BS)
Loyola's Bachelor of Science (BS) in Biology degree program is designed
for students wishing to pursue a career in the biological sciences or a
range of healthcare ﬁelds. The curriculum includes foundational lecture
and laboratory courses in the areas of cell biology, genetics, and ecology.
Students can then pursue their individual interests in biology through the
diverse electives offered each term. Biology majors also have a myriad
of undergraduate student research opportunities on campus. In addition,
students have the opportunity to secure internships at hospitals, medical
equipment companies, zoos, biotech companies, and other employers.
Many graduates of the biology program pursue advanced degrees in the
biological or biomedical ﬁelds. For example, Loyola students who work
with the Pre-Health Professions Advisory Committee (PHPAC) have a high
acceptance rate into health professional schools. This also attests to the
caliber of Loyola's Biology program.
Related Programs
Minor
•Biology Minor  (p. 302)
Combined
•Biology/Bioinformatics (BS/MS)  (p. 1026 )
•Biology/Business (BS/MBA)  (p. 1015 )Curriculum
The Biology major requires 37 credit hours, including 8 required Biology
courses (18 credit hours) and Biology elective courses (19 credit hours)
plus cognate courses in Calculus, Chemistry and Physics. This allows
students to receive a strong background in fundamental biology required
of all Biology majors. Students will follow the program outlined below:
Code Title Hours
Biology Courses: RequiredBIOL 101General Biology I3
BIOL 111 General Biology I Lab 1BIOL 102General Biology II3
BIOL 112 General Biology II Lab 1BIOL 251Cell Biology3
BIOL 265 Ecology 3BIOL 282Genetics3
Select one of the following: 1BIOL 252Cell Biology LaboratoryBIOL 266 Ecology LaboratoryBIOL 283Genetics LaboratoryBiology Courses: Electives  (p. 300) 119At least nine (9) credits must be at 300-level and at least two (2)
elective courses must include a laboratory component.  (p. 300)NOTE: Special topics courses (BIOL 377, BIOL 394, BIOL 394E,
BIOL 394M, BIOL 395, BIOL 395E, BIOL 395M, BIOL 397, BIOL 397E,
BIOL 397M) can be taken multiple times for credit as long as the
course topic is different.ChemistryCHEM 160 Chemical Structure and Properties 3
or CHEM 101 General Chemistry A Lecture/Discussion
or CHEM 105 Chemical PrinciplesCHEM 161Chemical Structure and Properties Laboratory1or CHEM 105Chemical Principlesor CHEM 111General Chemistry Lab A
CHEM 180 Chemical Reactivity I 3
or CHEM 221 Organic Chemistry I Lec/Disc
or CHEM 223 Organic Chemistry A Lec/DiscCHEM 181Chemical Reactivity I Lab1or CHEM 221Organic Chemistry I Lec/Discor CHEM 225Organic Chemistry Lab A
CHEM 240 Chemical Reactivity II 3
or CHEM 222 Organic Chemistry II Lec/Disc
or CHEM 224 Organic Chemistry B Lec/DiscCHEM 241Chemical Reactivity II Laboratory1or CHEM 222Organic Chemistry II Lec/Discor CHEM 226Organic Chemistry Lab B
CHEM 260 Quantitative Methods in Chemistry 3
or CHEM 102 General Chemistry B Lecture/Discussion
or CHEM 106 Basic Inorganic ChemistryCHEM 261Quantitative Methods in Chemistry Laboratory1or CHEM 106Basic Inorganic Chemistryor CHEM 112General Chemistry Lab B
Mathematics

--- Page 269 ---
300  Biology (BS)MATH 131Applied Calculus I3-4or MATH 161Calculus I
MATH 132 Applied Calculus II 3-4
or MATH 162 Calculus IIPhysicsPHYS 111 College Physics I Lec / Dis 3
or PHYS 121 College Physics I with Calculus Lecture/Discussion
or PHYS 125 General Physics I Lec/DisPHYS 111LCollege Physics Laboratory I1
PHYS 112 College Physics II Lec/Disc 3
or PHYS 122 College Physics II with Calculus Lecture/Discussion
or PHYS 126 General Physics II Lec/DisPHYS 112LCollege Physics Lab II1Total Hours67
1Special topics courses ( BIOL 377 , BIOL 394 , BIOL 394E , BIOL 394M ,
BIOL 395 , BIOL 395E , BIOL 395M , BIOL 397 , BIOL 397E , BIOL 397M )
can be taken multiple times for credit as long as the course topic is
different.
Biology Electives
Code Title Hours
BiologyAny BIOL 200-Level Course  1,2Any BIOL 300-Level Course  3BIOL 2TRN Biology 200-Level TransferBIOL 3TRN Biology 300-Level TransferAnthropologyANTH 246 /
BIOL 246Ancient Human-Animal Interactions 3ANTH 280 /
BIOL 280Evolution of Human Disease3
ANTH 281 /
BIOL 281Evolution of the Human Diet 3ANTH 325 /
BIOL 325Primatology-Behavior & Ecology3
ANTH 326 /
BIOL 326Human Osteology Lec/Lab 4ANTH 327 /
BIOL 378Dental Anthropology3
ANTH 346 /
BIOL 346Biology of Women 3ANTH 359 /
BIOL 359Paleopathology3
ChemistryCHEM 361 /
BIOL 366Principles of Biochemistry3
Environmental ScienceENVS 215 /
BIOL 215Ornithology3
ENVS 267 /
BIOL 347Bird Conservation and Ecology 3ENVS 340 /
BIOL 340Natural History of Belize3ENVS 345 /
BIOL 349Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
Ecosystems3ENVS 367Mammalogy3
ENVS 369 /
BIOL 348Field Ornithology 3NeuroscienceNEUR 101 Introduction to Neuroscience 43NEUR 300 /
BIOL 303Seminar in Neuroscience1
NEUR 301 /
BIOL 373Laboratory in Neuroscience I 4NEUR 302Laboratory in Neuroscience II3
PhysicsPHYS 371Biophysics3
PsychologyPSYC 240 /
BIOL 240Psychology-Biology of Perception 43
PSYC 311 /
BIOL 313Lab in Psychobiology 3PSYC 382 /
BIOL 284Behavorial and Cognitive Neuroscience3
PSYC 388 /
BIOL 373Laboratory in Neuroscience I 4StatisticsSTAT 310 /
BIOL 310Categorical Data Analysis 3STAT 335 /
BIOL 335Introduction to Biostatistics3
STAT 336 /
BIOL 336Advanced Biostatistics 3STAT 337 /
BIOL 337Quantitative Methods in Bioinformatics3
1If not already taken as a 200-level required course.
2BIOL 296 Introduction to Research  can be taken multiple times, but
only a maximum of 2 credit hours count as Biology Electives.
3A maximum of 3 total credits of  BIOL 396 Research , BIOL 396E
Research (Ecology Emph) , BIOL 396M Research (Molecular
Emph) , BIOL 398 Internship in Biology , BIOL 398E Internship in Biology
(Ecology Emph) , BIOL 398M Internship in Biology (Molecular Emph)  can
count as Biology Electives.
4Either BIOL 240 /PSYC 240 Psychology-Biology of Perception
OR NEUR 101 Introduction to Neuroscience  (but NOT both) count as
Biology Electives.
Lab Requirements
Code Title Hours
100-Level LabsBoth of the following courses are required:BIOL 111 General Biology I Lab 1BIOL 112General Biology II Lab1
200-Level LabsChoose one of the following courses:BIOL 252 Cell Biology Laboratory 1BIOL 266Ecology Laboratory1
BIOL 283 Genetics Laboratory 1

--- Page 270 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 301Biology Elective LabsChoose at least two of the following courses:BIOL 205Plant Biology Lec/Lab4
BIOL 210 Laboratory Techniques 2BIOL 242Anatomy and Physiology I4
BIOL 243 Anatomy and Physiology II 4BIOL 252Cell Biology Laboratory 11
BIOL 266 Ecology Laboratory 11BIOL 283Genetics Laboratory 11
BIOL 302 General Microbiology Lec/Lab 4BIOL 313 /
PSYC 311Lab in Psychobiology3
BIOL 315 Introductory Immunology Lec/Lab 4BIOL 316Limnology Lec/Lab4
BIOL 323 Comparative Anatomy Lec/Lab 4BIOL 326 /
ANTH 326Human Osteology Lec/Lab4
BIOL 327 Wetland Ecology 4BIOL 340 /
ENVS 340Natural History of Belize3
BIOL 341 Histology Lec/Lab 4BIOL 342Human Anatomy4
BIOL 347 /
ENVS 267Bird Conservation and Ecology 3BIOL 348 /
ENVS 369Field Ornithology3
BIOL 349 /
ENVS 345Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
Ecosystems3BIOL 353Natural History of Vertebrates4
BIOL 355 Parasitology Lec/Lab 4BIOL 360Field Biology3
BIOL 363 Entomology Lec/Lab 4BIOL 366LCell Physiology & Biochemistry Lab3
BIOL 367 Bioimaging 4BIOL 368Plant Ecology Lec/Lab4
BIOL 370 Ichthyology Lec/Lab 4BIOL 373 /
NEUR 301 /
PSYC 388Laboratory in Neuroscience I4
BIOL 375 Aquatic Insects Lecture & Laboratory 4BIOL 385Prin Electron Microscopy Lec/Lab4
BIOL 390 Molecular Biology Laboratory 4BIOL 394Special Topics in Biology Laboratory1-4
BIOL 394E Special Topics in Biology Laboratory (Ecology
Emph)1-4BIOL 394MSpecial Topics in Biology Laboratory (Molecular
Emph)1-4
BIOL 395L Special Topics Laboratory 1-4BIOL 396Research 23
BIOL 396E Research (Ecology Emph) 23BIOL 396MResearch (Molecular Emph) 23
BIOL 397 Course-Based Undergraduate Research Experience
in Biology1-4BIOL 397ECourse-based Undergraduate Research Experience
in Biology (Ecology Emph)1-4
BIOL 397M Course-based Undergraduate Research Experience
in Biology (Molecular Emph)1-4BIOL 398Internship in Biology 21-3
BIOL 398E Internship in Biology (Ecology Emph) 21-3BIOL 398MInternship in Biology (Molecular Emph) 21-3
NEUR 302 Laboratory in Neuroscience II 3
1If not already taken as the 200-level required lab.
2A maximum of one course of  BIOL 396 Research , BIOL 396E Research
(Ecology Emph) , BIOL 396M Research (Molecular Emph) , BIOL 398
Internship in Biology , BIOL 398E Internship in Biology (Ecology Emph) ,
BIOL 398M Internship in Biology (Molecular Emph)  can count toward
the 2 minimum courses of Biology Labs.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
First Semester
BIOL 101 General Biology I 3BIOL 111General Biology I Lab1
CHEM 160 Chemical Structure and Properties 3CHEM 161Chemical Structure and Properties
Laboratory1MATH 131Applied Calculus I 13 Hours11
Second Semester
BIOL 102 General Biology II 3BIOL 112General Biology II Lab1
CHEM 180 Chemical Reactivity I 3CHEM 181Chemical Reactivity I Lab1MATH 132Applied Calculus II 13 Hours11
Third Semester
CHEM 240 Chemical Reactivity II 3CHEM 241Chemical Reactivity II Laboratory1
Select one of the following: 3BIOL 251Cell Biology 
BIOL 265 Ecology  BIOL 282Genetics 
Select one of the following: 1BIOL 252Cell Biology Laboratory 
BIOL 266 Ecology Laboratory  BIOL 283Genetics Laboratory  Hours8
Fourth SemesterCHEM 260Quantitative Methods in Chemistry3
CHEM 261 Quantitative Methods in Chemistry
Laboratory1

--- Page 271 ---
302  Biology MinorSelect one of the following:3
BIOL 251 Cell Biology  BIOL 265Ecology BIOL 282Genetics  Hours7
Fifth Semester
Select one of the following: 3BIOL 251Cell Biology 
BIOL 265 Ecology  BIOL 282Genetics 
PHYS 111 College Physics I Lec / Dis 13PHYS 111LCollege Physics Laboratory I1 Hours7
Sixth SemesterBIOL Elective4
PHYS 112 College Physics II Lec/Disc 13PHYS 112LCollege Physics Lab II1 Hours8
Seventh SemesterBIOL Elective4BIOL Elective3 Hours7
Eighth Semester
BIOL Elective 4BIOL Elective4 Hours8 Total Hours67
1May be replaced by a more difﬁcult course.
Transferring Credit
Transfer students seeking the BS in Biology degree must take a minimum
of 20 credit hours in Biology courses at Loyola. No more than 18 credit
hours from another institution may be applied to the BS in Biology degree
program.
Course Repeat Rule
Effective with the spring 2009 semester, students are allowed only TWO
attempts to pass Biology courses with a C- or better grade. The two
attempts includes withdrawals (W).
The procedure for securing approval for a repeat: Students must come to
the Biology Department, ﬁll out a permission to register form, and obtain
signatures of both the faculty instructor, and the Biology Chairperson
or Assistant-Chairperson. A copy of this form is then submitted to the
student's academic advisor to secure ﬁnal permission for the repeat.
After a second attempt to pass a Biology course, it is at the d iscretion of
the Biology Chairperson or Assistant-Chairperson whether the student
may repeat the course.
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well ascomplete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
At the completion of the Undergraduate Biology Major:
•Students will demonstrate developing mastery of the following Vision
and Change core concepts and their related principals: evolution (the
diversity of life-forms that have evolved over time through mutations,
selection and genetic change; structure and function (the basic units
of biological structures that deﬁne the functions of all living things);
information flow, exchange and storage (the influence of genetics on
the control of the growth and behavior of organisms); pathways and
transformations of energy and matter (the ways in which chemical
transformation pathways and the laws of thermodynamics govern the
growth and change of biological systems); and systems (the ways in
which living things are interconnected and interact with one another).
•Students will be able to retrieve, synthesize, and critically evaluate
scientiﬁc literature.
•Students will be able to communicate (orally and in writing) results
and interpretation of scientiﬁc research.
•Students will be able to design and implement experiments that test
predictive hypotheses, analyze data, report results, and interpret the
signiﬁcance of these experiments.
Biology Minor
The minor in biology is a perfect ﬁt for students interested in the
biological sciences, but who do not wish to pursue a career in biology.
A minor in biology gives a strong basic background in cell biology,
genetics, and ecology that will enhance a career in other areas such as:
chemistry, physics, psychology, social sciences, computational sciences,
humanities, or business.
Related Programs
Major
•Biology (BS)  (p. 299)
•Biology with Ecology Emphasis (BS)  (p. 304)
•Biology with Molecular Biology Emphasis (BS)  (p. 308)
Curriculum
Students take the basic lecture and laboratory biology courses with
the Biology majors, as well as a limited number of biology elec tives.
Students may satisfy requirements for a minor concentration in biology
by completing a minimum of 24 credit hours of biology with grades of “C-”
or better with an overall minor GPA of 2.0 or higher.  The minor in biology
requires 24 credit hours including 17 credit hours of required biology
courses and seven credit hours of biology electives.

--- Page 272 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 303
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesBIOL 101General Biology I3
BIOL 102 General Biology II 3BIOL 111General Biology I Lab1
BIOL 112 General Biology II Lab 1BIOL 251Cell Biology3
BIOL 265 Ecology 3BIOL 282Genetics3Select seven credit hours of Biology Electives  17Total Hours24
1Special topics courses ( BIOL 377 , BIOL 394 , BIOL 394E , BIOL 394M
BIOL 395 , BIOL 395E , BIOL 395M , BIOL 397 , BIOL 397E , BIOL 397M )
can be taken multiple times for credit as long as the course topic is
different.
Transferring students who seek a minor in biology must take a minimum
of 12 credit hours in biology at Loyola.
Biology Electives
Code Title Hours
BiologyAny BIOL 200-Level Course  1,2Any BIOL 300-Level Course  3BIOL 2TRN Biology 200-Level TransferBIOL 3TRN Biology 300-Level TransferAnthropologyANTH 246 /
BIOL 246Ancient Human-Animal Interactions 3ANTH 280 /
BIOL 280Evolution of Human Disease3
ANTH 281 /
BIOL 281Evolution of the Human Diet 3ANTH 325 /
BIOL 325Primatology-Behavior & Ecology3
ANTH 326 /
BIOL 326Human Osteology Lec/Lab 4ANTH 327 /
BIOL 378Dental Anthropology3
ANTH 346 /
BIOL 346Biology of Women 3ANTH 359 /
BIOL 359Paleopathology3
ChemistryCHEM 361 /
BIOL 366Principles of Biochemistry3
Environmental ScienceENVS 215 /
BIOL 215Ornithology3
ENVS 267 /
BIOL 347Bird Conservation and Ecology 3ENVS 340 /
BIOL 340Natural History of Belize3ENVS 345 /
BIOL 349Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
Ecosystems3ENVS 367Mammalogy3
ENVS 369 /
BIOL 348Field Ornithology 3NeuroscienceNEUR 101 Introduction to Neuroscience 43NEUR 300 /
BIOL 303Seminar in Neuroscience1
NEUR 301 /
BIOL 373Laboratory in Neuroscience I 4NEUR 302Laboratory in Neuroscience II3
PhysicsPHYS 371Biophysics3
PsychologyPSYC 240 /
BIOL 240Psychology-Biology of Perception 43
PSYC 311 /
BIOL 313Lab in Psychobiology 3PSYC 382 /
BIOL 284Behavorial and Cognitive Neuroscience3
PSYC 388 /
BIOL 373Laboratory in Neuroscience I 4StatisticsSTAT 310 /
BIOL 310Categorical Data Analysis 3STAT 335 /
BIOL 335Introduction to Biostatistics3
STAT 336 /
BIOL 336Advanced Biostatistics 3STAT 337 /
BIOL 337Quantitative Methods in Bioinformatics3
1If not already taken as a 200-level required course.
2BIOL 296 Introduction to Research  can be taken multiple times, but
only a maximum of 2 credit hours count as Biology Electives.
3A maximum of 3 total credits of  BIOL 396 Research , BIOL 396E
Research (Ecology Emph) , BIOL 396M Research (Molecular
Emph) , BIOL 398 Internship in Biology , BIOL 398E Internship in Biology
(Ecology Emph) , BIOL 398M Internship in Biology (Molecular Emph)  can
count as Biology Electives.
4Either  BIOL 240 /PSYC 240 Psychology-Biology of
Perception  OR NEUR 101 Introduction to Neuroscience  (but NOT both)
count as Biology Electives.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion
of requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as
the start term for the minor.  Students should consult their advisor for
assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
First Semester
BIOL 101 General Biology I 3BIOL 111General Biology I Lab1 Hours4

--- Page 273 ---
304  Biology with Ecology Emphasis (BS)
Second SemesterBIOL 102General Biology II3BIOL 112General Biology II Lab1 Hours4
Third Semester
Select one of the following: 3BIOL 251Cell Biology 
BIOL 265 Ecology  BIOL 282Genetics  Hours3
Fourth SemesterSelect one of the following:3
BIOL 251 Cell Biology  BIOL 265Ecology BIOL 282Genetics  Hours3
Fifth Semester
Select one of the following: 3BIOL 251Cell Biology 
BIOL 265 Ecology  BIOL 282Genetics  Hours3
Sixth SemesterBIOL Elective3 Hours3
Seventh SemesterBIOL Elective4 Hours4 Total Hours24
Learning Outcomes
At the completion of the Undergraduate Biology Minor:
•Students will demonstrate developing mastery of the following Vision
and Change core concepts and their related principals: evolution (the
diversity of life-forms that have evolved over time through mutations,
selection and genetic change; structure and function (the basic units
of biological structures that deﬁne the functions of all living things);
information flow, exchange and storage (the influence of genetics on
the control of the growth and behavior of organisms); pathways and
transformations of energy and matter (the ways in which chemical
transformation pathways and the laws of thermodynamics govern the
growth and change of biological systems); and systems (the ways in
which living things are interconnected and interact with one another).
•Students will be able to retrieve, synthesize, and critically evaluate
scientiﬁc literature.
•Students will be able to communicate (orally and in writing) results
and interpretation of scientiﬁc research.
Biology with Ecology Emphasis (BS)
The growing signiﬁcance of environmental issues to the overall health
of our world in the new century requires more individuals who are
scientiﬁcally trained to contribute to solving environmental problems.The BS in Biology with Ecology emphasis is designed to provide in-
depth training for students planning to do research in various areas
of environmental sciences as either graduate students or employees
of environmental agencies and companies. The curriculum includes
the same foundational lecture and laboratory courses in the areas of
cell biology, genetics, and ecology taken by general biology majors.
Additional coursework focuses speciﬁcally on topics related to ecology
and evolution.
Related Programs
Major
•Biology (BS)  (p. 299)
•Biology with Molecular Biology Emphasis (BS)  (p. 308)
Curriculum
This specialized Biology major requires 37 credit hours, including 9
required Biology courses (21 credit hours) and Biology elective courses
(16 credit hours) plus cognate courses in Calculus, Chemistry and
Physics. This track allows students to receive the strong background
in fundamental biology required of all Biology majors, while also
specializing in the areas of ecology and evolution. Students will follow
the program outlined below:
Code Title Hours
Biology Courses: RequiredBIOL 101General Biology I3
BIOL 111 General Biology I Lab 1BIOL 102General Biology II3
BIOL 112 General Biology II Lab 1BIOL 251Cell Biology3
BIOL 265 Ecology 3BIOL 266Ecology Laboratory1
BIOL 282 Genetics 3BIOL 319Evolution3
Biology Courses: Electives  (p. 305) 116At least six (6) credits must be at 300-level and at least two (2)
elective courses must include a laboratory component.  (p. 306)At least two (2) electives must be designated as Ecology Electives.
(p. 306)ChemistryCHEM 160 Chemical Structure and Properties 3
or CHEM 101 General Chemistry A Lecture/Discussion
or CHEM 105 Chemical PrinciplesCHEM 161Chemical Structure and Properties Laboratory1or CHEM 105Chemical Principlesor CHEM 111General Chemistry Lab A
CHEM 180 Chemical Reactivity I 3
or CHEM 221 Organic Chemistry I Lec/Disc
or CHEM 223 Organic Chemistry A Lec/DiscCHEM 181Chemical Reactivity I Lab1or CHEM 221Organic Chemistry I Lec/Discor CHEM 225Organic Chemistry Lab A
CHEM 240 Chemical Reactivity II 3
or CHEM 222 Organic Chemistry II Lec/Disc
or CHEM 224 Organic Chemistry B Lec/Disc

--- Page 274 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 305CHEM 241Chemical Reactivity II Laboratory1or CHEM 222Organic Chemistry II Lec/Discor CHEM 226Organic Chemistry Lab B
CHEM 260 Quantitative Methods in Chemistry 3
or CHEM 102 General Chemistry B Lecture/Discussion
or CHEM 106 Basic Inorganic ChemistryCHEM 261Quantitative Methods in Chemistry Laboratory1or CHEM 106Basic Inorganic Chemistryor CHEM 112General Chemistry Lab B
MathematicsMATH 131Applied Calculus I3-4or MATH 161Calculus I
MATH 132 Applied Calculus II 3-4
or MATH 162 Calculus IIPhysicsPHYS 111 College Physics I Lec / Dis 3-4
or PHYS 121 College Physics I with Calculus Lecture/Discussion
or PHYS 125 General Physics I Lec/DisPHYS 111LCollege Physics Laboratory I1
PHYS 112 College Physics II Lec/Disc 3
or PHYS 122 College Physics II with Calculus Lecture/Discussion
or PHYS 126 General Physics II Lec/DisPHYS 112LCollege Physics Lab II1Total Hours67
1Special topics courses ( BIOL 377 , BIOL 394 , BIOL 394E , BIOL 394M ,
BIOL 395 , BIOL 395E , BIOL 395M , BIOL 397 , BIOL 397E , BIOL 397M )
can be taken multiple times for credit as long as the course topic is
different.
Biology Electives
Code Title Hours
BiologyAny BIOL 200-Level Course  1,2Any BIOL 300-Level Course  1,3BIOL 2TRN Biology 200-Level TransferBIOL 3TRN Biology 300-Level TransferAnthropologyANTH 246 /
BIOL 246Ancient Human-Animal Interactions 3ANTH 280 /
BIOL 280Evolution of Human Disease3
ANTH 281 /
BIOL 281Evolution of the Human Diet 3ANTH 325 /
BIOL 325Primatology-Behavior & Ecology3
ANTH 326 /
BIOL 326Human Osteology Lec/Lab 4ANTH 327 /
BIOL 378Dental Anthropology3
ANTH 346 /
BIOL 346Biology of Women 3ANTH 359 /
BIOL 359Paleopathology3
ChemistryCHEM 361 /
BIOL 366Principles of Biochemistry3
Environmental ScienceENVS 215 /
BIOL 215Ornithology3
ENVS 267 /
BIOL 347Bird Conservation and Ecology 3ENVS 340 /
BIOL 340Natural History of Belize3
ENVS 345 /
BIOL 349Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
Ecosystems3ENVS 367Mammalogy3
ENVS 369 /
BIOL 348Field Ornithology 3NeuroscienceNEUR 101 Introduction to Neuroscience 43NEUR 300 /
BIOL 303Seminar in Neuroscience1
NEUR 301 /
BIOL 373Laboratory in Neuroscience I 4NEUR 302Laboratory in Neuroscience II3
PhysicsPHYS 371Biophysics3
PsychologyPSYC 240 /
BIOL 240Psychology-Biology of Perception 43
PSYC 311 /
BIOL 313Lab in Psychobiology 3PSYC 382 /
BIOL 284Behavorial and Cognitive Neuroscience3
PSYC 388 /
BIOL 373Laboratory in Neuroscience I 4StatisticsSTAT 310 /
BIOL 310Categorical Data Analysis 3STAT 335 /
BIOL 335Introduction to Biostatistics3
STAT 336 /
BIOL 336Advanced Biostatistics 3STAT 337 /
BIOL 337Quantitative Methods in Bioinformatics3
1If not already taken as a 200-level or 300-level required course.
2BIOL 296 Introduction to Research  can be taken multiple times, but
only a maximum of 2 credit hours count as Biology Electives.
3A maximum of 3 total credits of BIOL 396 , BIOL 396E , BIOL 396M ,
BIOL 398 , BIOL 398E , and BIOL 398M  can count as Biology Electives.
4Either  BIOL 240 /PSYC 240 Psychology-Biology of
Perception  OR NEUR 101 Introduction to Neuroscience  (but NOT both)
count as Biology Electives.

--- Page 275 ---
306  Biology with Ecology Emphasis (BS)
Lab Requirements
Code Title Hours
100-Level LabsBoth of the following courses are required:BIOL 111 General Biology I Lab 1BIOL 112General Biology II Lab1
200-Level LabsThe following course is required:BIOL 266 Ecology Laboratory 1Biology Elective LabsChoose at least two of the following courses:BIOL 205Plant Biology Lec/Lab4
BIOL 210 Laboratory Techniques 2BIOL 242Anatomy and Physiology I4
BIOL 243 Anatomy and Physiology II 4BIOL 252Cell Biology Laboratory1
BIOL 283 Genetics Laboratory 1BIOL 302General Microbiology Lec/Lab4
BIOL 313 /
PSYC 311Lab in Psychobiology 3BIOL 315Introductory Immunology Lec/Lab4
BIOL 316 Limnology Lec/Lab 4BIOL 323Comparative Anatomy Lec/Lab4
BIOL 326 /
ANTH 326Human Osteology Lec/Lab 4BIOL 327Wetland Ecology4
BIOL 340 /
ENVS 340Natural History of Belize 3BIOL 341Histology Lec/Lab4
BIOL 342 Human Anatomy 4BIOL 347 /
ENVS 267Bird Conservation and Ecology3
BIOL 348 /
ENVS 369Field Ornithology 3BIOL 349 /
ENVS 345Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
Ecosystems3
BIOL 353 Natural History of Vertebrates 4BIOL 355Parasitology Lec/Lab4
BIOL 360 Field Biology 3BIOL 363Entomology Lec/Lab4
BIOL 366L Cell Physiology & Biochemistry Lab 3BIOL 367Bioimaging4
BIOL 368 Plant Ecology Lec/Lab 4BIOL 370Ichthyology Lec/Lab4
BIOL 373 /
NEUR 301 /
PSYC 388Laboratory in Neuroscience I 4BIOL 375Aquatic Insects Lecture & Laboratory4
BIOL 385 Prin Electron Microscopy Lec/Lab 4BIOL 390Molecular Biology Laboratory4
BIOL 394 Special Topics in Biology Laboratory 1-4BIOL 394ESpecial Topics in Biology Laboratory (Ecology
Emph)1-4BIOL 394M Special Topics in Biology Laboratory (Molecular
Emph)1-4BIOL 395LSpecial Topics Laboratory1-4
BIOL 396 Research 13BIOL 396EResearch (Ecology Emph) 13
BIOL 396M Research (Molecular Emph) 13BIOL 397Course-Based Undergraduate Research Experience
in Biology1-4
BIOL 397E Course-based Undergraduate Research Experience
in Biology (Ecology Emph)1-4BIOL 397MCourse-based Undergraduate Research Experience
in Biology (Molecular Emph)1-4
BIOL 398 Internship in Biology 11-3BIOL 398EInternship in Biology (Ecology Emph) 11-3
BIOL 398M Internship in Biology (Molecular Emph) 11-3NEUR 302Laboratory in Neuroscience II3
1A maximum of one course of BIOL 396 , BIOL 396E , BIOL 396M ,
BIOL 398 , BIOL 398E , and BIOL 398M  can count toward the 2 minimum
courses of Biology Labs.
Ecology Electives
Code Title Hours
BiologyBIOL 205Plant Biology Lec/Lab4
BIOL 316 Limnology Lec/Lab 4BIOL 320Animal Behavior3
BIOL 321 Great Transitions in Vertebrate History 3BIOL 327Wetland Ecology4
BIOL 328 Conservation Biology 3BIOL 330Global Change Biology3
BIOL 344 Microbial Evolution and Human Well-being 3BIOL 353Natural History of Vertebrates4
BIOL 355 Parasitology Lec/Lab 4BIOL 360Field Biology3
BIOL 363 Entomology Lec/Lab 4BIOL 368Plant Ecology Lec/Lab4
BIOL 369 Invertebrate Biology 3BIOL 370Ichthyology Lec/Lab4
BIOL 375 Aquatic Insects Lecture & Laboratory 4BIOL 394ESpecial Topics in Biology Laboratory (Ecology
Emph)1-4
BIOL 395E Special Topics in Biology (Ecology Emph) 3BIOL 396EResearch (Ecology Emph) 13
BIOL 397E Course-based Undergraduate Research Experience
in Biology (Ecology Emph)1-4BIOL 398EInternship in Biology (Ecology Emph) 11-3
BIOL 399E Individual Study (Ecology Emph) 1-3AnthropologyANTH 246 /
BIOL 246Ancient Human-Animal Interactions 3ANTH 281 /
BIOL 281Evolution of the Human Diet3

--- Page 276 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 307
ANTH 325 /
BIOL 325Primatology-Behavior & Ecology 3Environmental ScienceENVS 215 /
BIOL 215Ornithology 3ENVS 267 /
BIOL 347Bird Conservation and Ecology3
ENVS 340 /
BIOL 340Natural History of Belize 3ENVS 345 /
BIOL 348Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
Ecosystems3
ENVS 367 Mammalogy 3ENVS 369 /
BIOL 349Field Ornithology3
StatisticsSTAT 335 /
BIOL 335Introduction to Biostatistics3
1A maximum of 3 total credits of either  BIOL 396E Research (Ecology
Emph)  OR BIOL 398E Internship in Biology (Ecology Emph)  (but NOT
both) can count toward the BIOE-BS degree.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
The biology department recommends that students pursuing the BS in
Biology with Ecology Emphasis complete their required classes in the
following sequence. Requirements include courses in Biology (BIOL),
Chemistry (CHEM), Mathematics (MATH) and Physics (PHYS):
Course Title Hours
First Semester
BIOL 101 General Biology I 3BIOL 111General Biology I Lab1
CHEM 160 Chemical Structure and Properties 3CHEM 161Chemical Structure and Properties
Laboratory1MATH 131Applied Calculus I3 Hours11
Second Semester
BIOL 102 General Biology II 3BIOL 112General Biology II Lab1
CHEM 180 Chemical Reactivity I 3CHEM 181Chemical Reactivity I Lab1MATH 132Applied Calculus II3 Hours11
Third Semester
BIOL 265 Ecology 3BIOL 266Ecology Laboratory1
CHEM 240 Chemical Reactivity II 3CHEM 241Chemical Reactivity II Laboratory1 Hours8
Fourth SemesterBIOL 282 
or BIOL 251Genetics 
or Cell Biology3
CHEM 260 Quantitative Methods in Chemistry 3CHEM 261Quantitative Methods in Chemistry
Laboratory1 Hours7
Fifth SemesterBIOL 251 
or BIOL 282Cell Biology 
or Genetics3
PHYS 111 College Physics I Lec / Dis 3PHYS 111LCollege Physics Laboratory I1 Hours7
Sixth SemesterBIOL 319Evolution3
PHYS 112 College Physics II Lec/Disc 3PHYS 112LCollege Physics Lab II1BIOL Elective (Ecology)3 Hours10
Seventh Semester
BIOL Elective (Ecology) 3BIOL Electives5 Hours8
Eighth SemesterBIOL Electives5 Hours5 Total Hours67
Transferring Credit
Transfer students seeking the BS in Biology with Ecology Emphasis
degree must take a minimum of 20 credit hours in Biology courses at
Loyola. No more than 18 credit hours from another institution may be
applied to the BS in Biology with Ecology Emphasis degree program.
Course Repeat Rule
Effective with the spring 2009 semester, students are allowed only TWO
attempts to pass Biology courses with a C- or better grade. The two
attempts includes withdrawals (W).
The procedure for securing approval for a repeat: Students must come to
the Biology Department, ﬁll out a permission to register form, and obtain
signatures of both the faculty instructor, and the Biology Chairperson
or Assistant-Chairperson. A copy of this form is then submitted to the
student's academic advisor to secure ﬁnal permission for the repeat.
After a second attempt to pass a Biology course, it is at the d iscretion of
the Biology Chairperson or Assistant-Chairperson whether the student
may repeat the course.
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit

--- Page 277 ---
308  Biology with Molecular Biology Emphasis (BS)
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
At the completion of the Undergraduate Biology with Ecology Emphasis
Major:
•Students will demonstrate developing mastery of the following Vision
and Change core concepts and their related principals as they relate
to population ecology, community ecology, and ecosystem-level
concepts: evolution (the diversity of life-forms that have evolved over
time through mutations, selection and genetic change; structure
and function (the basic units of biological structures that deﬁne
the functions of all living things); information flow, exchange and
storage (the influence of genetics on the control of the growth and
behavior of organisms); pathways and transformations of energy
and matter (the ways in which chemical transformation pathways
and the laws of thermodynamics govern the growth and change of
biological systems); and systems (the ways in which living things are
interconnected and interact with one another).
•Students will be able to retrieve, synthesize, and critically evaluate
scientiﬁc literature.
•Students will be able to communicate (orally and in writing) results
and interpretation of scientiﬁc research.
•Students will be able to design and implement experiments that test
predictive hypotheses, analyze data, report results, and interpret the
signiﬁcance of these experiments to enhance their understanding of
ecological systems.
Biology with Molecular Biology
Emphasis (BS)
Recent advances in genetics, molecular biology, and related
biotechnologies have created a strong demand for college graduates
with training in these areas. Hands-on experience in the use of the latest
molecular techniques is particularly important to this training.
The BS in Biology with Molecular Biology emphasis program is designed
for students seeking a rigorous, laboratory-intensive curriculum to
prepare them for health-related professions, research jobs, or graduate
programs in a number of areas related to molecular biology. The
curriculum includes the same foundational lecture and laboratory
courses in the areas of cell biology, genetics, and ecology taken by
general Biology majors. Additional coursework focuses speciﬁcally on
topics related to molecular biology.
Related Programs
Major
•Biology (BS)  (p. 299)
•Biology with Ecology Emphasis (BS)  (p. 304)Curriculum
This specialized Biology major requires 37 credit hours including 9
required Biology courses (21 credit hours) and Biology elective courses
(16 credit hours) plus cognate courses in Calculus, Chemistry and
Physics. This track allows students to receive the strong background
in fundamental biology required of all Biology majors, while also
specializing in the area of molecular biology. Students will follow the
program outlined below.
Code Title Hours
Biology Courses: RequiredBIOL 101General Biology I3
BIOL 111 General Biology I Lab 1BIOL 102General Biology II3
BIOL 112 General Biology II Lab 1BIOL 251Cell Biology3
BIOL 265 Ecology 3BIOL 282Genetics3
BIOL 283 Genetics Laboratory 1BIOL 366Cell Physiology & Biochemistry3
Biology Courses: Electives 16Select one of the following:3
BIOL 382 Molecular GeneticsBIOL 387GenomicsBIOL 388 BioinformaticsSelect one of the following:1-4
BIOL 366L Cell Physiology & Biochemistry LabBIOL 390Molecular Biology LaboratoryBIOL 396M Research (Molecular Emph) 1BIOL 397MCourse-based Undergraduate Research Experience
in Biology (Molecular Emph)BIOL 398M Internship in Biology (Molecular Emph) 1Select 9-12 credit hours of the following:  29-12
At least one (1) elective course must include a laboratory
component.  3BIOL 252Cell Biology Laboratory 3BIOL 296 Introduction to Research 4BIOL 302General Microbiology Lec/Lab 3BIOL 307 Biology of Stem CellsBIOL 315Introductory Immunology Lec/Lab 3BIOL 317 Models of Human DiseaseBIOL 318General VirologyBIOL 319 EvolutionBIOL 344Microbial Evolution and Human Well-beingBIOL 351 Sleep/Circadian RhythmsBIOL 352Neurobiology of Feeding in Health and DiseaseBIOL 366L Cell Physiology & Biochemistry Lab 3,5BIOL 377Molecular PathogenesisBIOL 380 Genetics and Evolution of DevelopmentBIOL 381EpigeneticsBIOL 382 Molecular Genetics 5BIOL 383Population GeneticsBIOL 384 Microbial Pathogenesis of Infectious Disease

--- Page 278 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 309BIOL 387Genomics 5BIOL 388 Bioinformatics 5BIOL 390Molecular Biology Laboratory 3,5BIOL 392 MetagenomicsBIOL 394MSpecial Topics in Biology Laboratory (Molecular
Emph) 3BIOL 395M Special Topics in Biology (Molecular Emph)BIOL 396MResearch (Molecular Emph) 1,3,5BIOL 397M Course-based Undergraduate Research Experience
in Biology (Molecular Emph) 3,5BIOL 398MInternship in Biology (Molecular Emph) 1,3,5BIOL 399M Individual Study (Molecular Emph)PHYS 371BiophysicsChemistryCHEM 160Chemical Structure and Properties3or CHEM 101General Chemistry A Lecture/Discussionor CHEM 105Chemical Principles
CHEM 161 Chemical Structure and Properties Laboratory 1
or CHEM 105 Chemical Principles
or CHEM 111 General Chemistry Lab ACHEM 180Chemical Reactivity I3or CHEM 221Organic Chemistry I Lec/Discor CHEM 223Organic Chemistry A Lec/Disc
CHEM 181 Chemical Reactivity I Lab 1
or CHEM 221 Organic Chemistry I Lec/Disc
or CHEM 225 Organic Chemistry Lab ACHEM 240Chemical Reactivity II3or CHEM 222Organic Chemistry II Lec/Discor CHEM 224Organic Chemistry B Lec/Disc
CHEM 241 Chemical Reactivity II Laboratory 1
or CHEM 222 Organic Chemistry II Lec/Disc
or CHEM 226 Organic Chemistry Lab BCHEM 260Quantitative Methods in Chemistry3or CHEM 102General Chemistry B Lecture/Discussionor CHEM 106Basic Inorganic Chemistry
CHEM 261 Quantitative Methods in Chemistry Laboratory 1
or CHEM 106 Basic Inorganic Chemistry
or CHEM 112 General Chemistry Lab BMathematicsMATH 131 Applied Calculus I 3-4
or MATH 161 Calculus IMATH 132Applied Calculus II3-4or MATH 162Calculus II
PhysicsPHYS 111College Physics I Lec / Dis3or PHYS 121College Physics I with Calculus Lecture/Discussionor PHYS 125General Physics I Lec/Dis
PHYS 111L College Physics Laboratory I 1PHYS 112College Physics II Lec/Disc3or PHYS 122College Physics II with Calculus Lecture/Discussionor PHYS 126General Physics II Lec/DisPHYS 112LCollege Physics Lab II1Total Hours67
1A maximum of 3 total credits of either  BIOL 396M Research (Molecular
Emph)  OR BIOL 398M Internship in Biology (Molecular Emph)  (but NOT
both) count as toward the BIOM-BS degree.
2Special topics courses ( BIOL 377 , BIOL 394M , BIOL 395M , BIOL 397M )
can be taken multiple times for credit as long as the course topic is
different.
3Counts as a Laboratory course.
4BIOL 296 Introduction to Research  can be taken multiple times, but
only a maximum of 2 credit hours count as Biology Electives.
5If not taken to fulﬁll another requirement.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
The biology department recommends that students pursuing the BS in
Biology with Molecular Biology Emphasis complete their required classes
in the following sequence. Requirements include courses in Biology
(BIOL), Chemistry (CHEM), Mathematics (MATH) and Physics (PHYS):
Course Title Hours
First Semester
BIOL 101 General Biology I 3BIOL 111General Biology I Lab1
CHEM 160 Chemical Structure and Properties 3CHEM 161Chemical Structure and Properties
Laboratory1MATH 131Applied Calculus I3 Hours11
Second Semester
BIOL 102 General Biology II 3BIOL 112General Biology II Lab1
CHEM 180 Chemical Reactivity I 3CHEM 181Chemical Reactivity I Lab1MATH 132Applied Calculus II3 Hours11
Third Semester
BIOL 282 Genetics 3BIOL 283Genetics Laboratory1
CHEM 240 Chemical Reactivity II 3CHEM 241Chemical Reactivity II Laboratory1 Hours8
Fourth SemesterBIOL 251 
or BIOL 265Cell Biology 
or Ecology3
CHEM 260 Quantitative Methods in Chemistry 3CHEM 261Quantitative Methods in Chemistry
Laboratory1 Hours7

--- Page 279 ---
310  Biostatistics Minor
Fifth SemesterBIOL 265 
or BIOL 251Ecology 
or Cell Biology3
PHYS 111 College Physics I Lec / Dis 3PHYS 111LCollege Physics Laboratory I1 Hours7
Sixth SemesterBIOL 366Cell Physiology & Biochemistry3
BIOL 382 
or BIOL 387 
or BIOL 388Molecular Genetics 
or Genomics 
or Bioinformatics3PHYS 112College Physics II Lec/Disc3PHYS 112LCollege Physics Lab II1 Hours10
Seventh Semester
Select one of the following: 1-4BIOL 366LCell Physiology & Biochemistry Lab 
BIOL 390 Molecular Biology Laboratory  BIOL 396Research 
BIOL 398 Internship in Biology  BIOL Elective Molecular3-6 Hours7
Eighth SemesterBIOL Elective Molecular3BIOL Elective Molecular3 Hours6 Total Hours67
Transferring Credit
Transfer students seeking the BS in Biology with Molecular Biology
Emphasis degree must take a minimum of 20 credit hours in Biology
courses at Loyola. No more than 18 credit hours from another institution
may be applied to the BS in Biology with Molecular Biology Emphasis
degree program.
Course Repeat Rule
Effective with the spring 2009 semester, students are allowed only TWO
attempts to pass Biology courses with a C- or better grade. The two
attempts includes withdrawals (W).
The procedure for securing approval for a repeat: Students must come to
the Biology Department, ﬁll out a permission to register form, and obtain
signatures of both the faculty instructor, and the Biology Chairperson
or Assistant-Chairperson. A copy of this form is then submitted to the
student's academic advisor to secure ﬁnal permission for the repeat.
After a second attempt to pass a Biology course, it is at the d iscretion of
the Biology Chairperson or Assistant-Chairperson whether the student
may repeat the course.
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credithours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
At the completion of the Undergraduate Biology with Molecular Biology
Emphasis Major:
•Students will demonstrate developing mastery of the following
Vision and Change core concepts and their related principals as they
relate to the central dogma of molecular biology and how it impacts
cellular and organismal processes: evolution (the diversity of life-
forms that have evolved over time through mutations, selection
and genetic change; structure and function (the basic units of
biological structures that deﬁne the functions of all living things);
information flow, exchange and storage (the influence of genetics on
the control of the growth and behavior of organisms); pathways and
transformations of energy and matter (the ways in which chemical
transformation pathways and the laws of thermodynamics govern the
growth and change of biological systems); and systems (the ways in
which living things are interconnected and interact with one another).
•Students will be able to retrieve, synthesize, and critically evaluate
scientiﬁc literature.
•Students will be able to communicate (orally and in writing) results
and interpretation of scientiﬁc research.
•Students will be able to design and implement experiments that test
predictive hypotheses, analyze data, report results, and interpret the
signiﬁcance of these experiments to enhance their understanding of
molecular biology.
Biostatistics Minor
Students in this program will apply their quantitative, computing and
biological knowledge to problems in biomedical research, statistical
genetics, and bioinformatics. Students with biostatistical trai ning are
in high demand in a wide array of ﬁelds such as medical research,
technology companies, pharmaceuticals, genetics, public health, and
epidemiology to name a few.
Related Programs
Minor
•Bioinformatics Minor  (p. 286)
•Biology Minor  (p. 302)
•Statistics Minor  (p. 537)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesSelect one of the following:6-8

--- Page 280 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 311
MATH 161 
& MATH 162Calculus I 
and Calculus IIMATH 131 
& MATH 132Applied Calculus I 
and Applied Calculus IIBIOL 101 
& BIOL 111General Biology I 
and General Biology I Lab4BIOL 102 
& BIOL 112General Biology II 
and General Biology II Lab4
STAT 335 Introduction to Biostatistics 13
or STAT 203 Introduction to Probability & StatisticsSTAT 336Advanced Biostatistics3
Select one of the following: 3STAT 303SAS Programming & Applied StatisticsSTAT 308 Applied Regression AnalysisSTAT 337Quantitative Methods in BioinformaticsTotal Hours23-25
1STAT 335 Introduction to Biostatistics  recommended unless you are in
a major requiring STAT 203 Introduction to Probability & Statistics .
Learning Outcomes
•Students will understand and be able to explain key components
of research design and statistical analysis, including observational
studies, clinical trials, and survey studies, while highlighting potential
biases in non-randomized studies.
•Students will recognize appropriate statistical techniques for
different types of data and apply them effectively, in particular to data
coming from biology.
•Students will utilize statistical software proﬁciently to implement
various statistical methods and techniques for data analysis,
encompassing parametric, nonparametric, and modern statistical
approaches.
Catholic Studies Interdisciplinary
Program
Our mission is to expose our students to the ever-expanding intellectual
and artistic tradition that is Roman Catholicism. We recognize that
Catholicism is diverse and broad in its history, its people, its teaching, and
its practices. At Loyola, we encounter various perspectives from around
the world, and we encourage our students to bring this deep per spective
to the table.
Undergraduate Programs
•Catholic Studies Minor  (p. 315)
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.Catholic Studies (CATH) 
CATH 100   Introductory Topics in Catholic Studies   (3-6 Credit Hours)   
Introductory level course for topics cross-listed with other courses
that focus on areas of Catholic studies but are not included among the
courses listed in the Catholic Studies Program.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will master a topic in Catholic Studies not addressed in other
courses
CATH 101   Evolution Western Ideas & Institutions to the 17th Century   (3
Credit Hours)   
This course traces the early development of Western civilization from the
ancient Near East; Greece and Rome; the medieval civilization(s); to the
European Renaissance and Reformation.
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST101/CATH101/ACHIS101   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of history as a discipline; be able
to place Judaism, Christianity, and Islam in historical context; explain
the expansion of the West; and develop their critical thinking and
communications skills
CATH 101D   Development of Western Thought Honors Discussion   (3
Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Catholic Studies students must be enrolled in the
Honors Program and must be completing the ﬁrst section of the course
HONR 101 (cross-listed with CATH 102)   
This course is the second half of the Freshmen Honors program protocol
of HONR 101, where students receive 6 credit hours for intensive reading,
lectures, and discussion groups with professors.
Course equivalencies:  X-HONRD101/CATH101D   
CATH 102   Western Traditions Honors-Antiquity to Middle Ages   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course is restricted to Catholic Studies Minors enrolled in the Honors
Program. This foundational course in the history of Western culture from
antiquity to the Middle Ages discusses such writers ranging from Homer
all the way to Augustine. Students will pose questions and comments
about some of the ideas and texts that helped shaped Western culture,
including many that come out of the western Christian tradition.
Course equivalencies:  X-HONR10/CATH102   
CATH 104   Jesus Christ   (3 Credit Hours)   
The study of the person of Jesus Christ.
Course equivalencies:  THEO104/CATH104   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the nature of
Jesus Christ as both human and divine, what this might mean, how this
formulation was derived, and the varieties of understanding of Christ
within the Scriptures, the church, and modern scholarship
CATH 105   The Church in the World   (3 Credit Hours)   
How does Christian Theology inform how Christians act in the world?
This is the central question that we will seek to answer throughout this
course. Examining the intersection between theoretical and practical
theology, we will explore the Church's engagement in the world at large,
both in global cultures and political movements. Each class will focus
on the sources of Christian doctrine, Biblical and Traditional, with an
emphasis on Catholic teaching since Vatican II and on the lived reality
of these teachings in a variety of historical and geographical contexts.
Using contemporary examples of global issues, we will explore the
practicality and potential beneﬁts and drawbacks of doing theology in the
public sphere.
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO105/CATH105   

--- Page 281 ---
312  Catholic Studies Interdisciplinary Program
CATH 106   Theology of The Sacraments   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course studies the realities of Christian faith life as expressed in the
concrete rituals of Christian communities. Sacraments are more than
just mechanical ways in which to experience God in Christian liturgy
- deﬁned traditionally as "visible signs of invisible realities. " Certainly,
the seven sacraments of the Catholic tradition perform the central
mysteries of God's gracious self communication; however, as importantly,
they also introduce and articulate a way of interpreting reality. This
course will not only examine the historical development, central beliefs
and communal practices of the sacraments, but will also explore the
"sacramental principle" as a way to illuminate the theological dynamics
that are such an essential component of Catholic liturgy and Christian
spirituality. Students will investigate the nature of the sacramental
system in Catholic worship, identify the key concepts of "sacramentality"
and explore the religious practices that are part of the living tradition
of sacramental theology. Finally, students will explore how, in the end,
the sacramental principle affects everything and cannot be contained.
Sacramentality is a way of being, an "eventing" that reminds us how
dynamic and transcendent (as opposed to static and insulated) l ife is. So,
we will follow the clues where they lead and assess current relationships
among sacramental theology, liturgy, artistic reflection, cross-cultural
expression, and daily life.
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO265/CATH106   
CATH 112   New Testament   (3 Credit Hours)   
The study of the New Testament.
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO112/CATH112   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the various literary
genres found in the New Testament
CATH 179   Roman Catholicism   (3 Credit Hours)   
James Joyce famously called Roman Catholicism the "Here comes
everybody" tradition, offering an apt description for a faith community
made up of both sinners and saints, martyrs and missionaries, defenders
and detractors all. This course on Roman Catholicism begins from
the assumption that it is fundamentally a tradition of paradox, which
establishes constancy through change and ﬁrmness through fluidity.
Students will explore Roman Catholicism less as a set of deﬁnite beliefs
and moral precepts, and more as a world-shaping perspective that forms
Catholics to see and to be in distinctive ways. Finally, the course will
address head-on a range of serious challenges confronting Roman
Catholicism today, including widespread disafﬁliation, clergy abuse,
Magisterial teaching on gender and sexuality, women's ordination, and
racism and anti-Judaism in the tradition.
Course equivalencies:  THEO179/THEO279/CATH179   
CATH 181   Christianity Through Time   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will introduce you to the history and missionary movements
of the Christian religion, from the early church to the present day. While
the course is set up thematically in chronological order, you will read case
studies based on primary sources, social history, and material culture that
will give you an overview of Christian revelation, theological differences,
community and controversies, circulation of ideas and counter-ideas,
missionary tactics, power struggles, and people's experiences in ecclesial
(liturgy and sacrament), para ecclesial, and personal ways. You will also
visit the Art Institute of Chicago and the Newberry Library to see objects
and manuscripts from the Christian tradition. The story this course
seeks to reveal is how the Christian religion has deﬁned the relationship
between the divine and the human world.
Course equivalencies:  THEO181/ THEO281/CATH181   CATH 193   Christian Marriage   (3 Credit Hours)   
Examination of the historical development of marriage within the
Christian tradition as well as an investigation and evaluation of its
condition in contemporary American society.
Course equivalencies:  THEO193/THEO293/CATH193   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of ethical principles
used to evaluate particular issues relevant to the understanding of the
Christian tradition of marriage
CATH 200   Intermediate Topics in Catholic Studies   (3-6 Credit Hours)   
Intermediate level course for topics cross-listed with courses that focus
on areas with Catholic studies but are not included among the courses
listed in the Catholic Studies Program.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will master a topic in Catholic Studies not addressed in other
courses
CATH 255   Music in Catholic Worship   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will explore the relationship between music and the liturgies
of the Roman Catholic Church. Theologies of liturgical music will be
compared and contrasted using the ofﬁcial documents of the Church,
theological perspectives and from pastoral experience.
Course equivalencies:  X-MUSC255/CATH255   
Outcomes:
For students seeking greater knowledge of sacred music, they will be
introduced and become familiar with different styles of music, reflect
upon and access the application and performance of sacred works
within the course as well as in onsite experiences in Catholic parishes in
Chicago
CATH 278   Medieval Culture   (3 Credit Hours)   
Europe in the Early Middle Ages was an unstable world, with its
collapsing imperial framework, migrating peoples, contrary cultures,
insecure economic structures and clashing political strategies. From that
a new balance was struck, through the blending of Roman, Germanic,
Celtic and Christian orders, and a Medieval Synthesis was forged. The
readings emphasize primary sources and their interpretation while
modern secondary sources will further inform our exploration into the
phenomenon of cultural synthesis and its place in history.
Course equivalencies:  X-ENGL279/CATH278/MSTU304   
CATH 296   All Things Ignatian: Living and Learning in the Jesuit Trad   (3
Credit Hours)   
This course explores the founder of the Jesuits, St. Ignatius Loyola
and considers his historical context and that of the Jesuits from
Renaissance Europe to today. Second, the course will introduce "The
Spiritual Exercises, " a highly reﬁned and adaptable method of prayer,
contemplation and action. Finally, the course will examine Ignatian
spirituality as a practical resource for addressing critical issues in the
Church and world today. Identify and explain the chief characteristics and
major themes of Ignatian spirituality. Locate, analyze, and demonstrate
Jesuit apostolate of scholarship and teaching; identify the global
contribution to education, particularly to university life. Experience direct
service.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  X-CATH 296/THEO 296   
Outcomes:
Describe the life and history of Ignatius of Loyola and the Society of
Jesus

--- Page 282 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 313
CATH 297   The Jesuits: Life and History   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the history of the Society of Jesus from its
founding by Ignatius Loyola in the 16th century to its activities in the
contemporary world.
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST297/CATH297   
Outcomes:
Students will gain a sense of the characteristics of Jesuit spirituality and
the contribution of Jesuits to various ﬁelds of human endeavor such as
evangelization, education, politics, literature, and the visual arts
CATH 300   Advanced Topics in Catholic Studies   (3-6 Credit Hours)   
Advanced level course for topics cross-listed with courses that focus on
areas with Catholic studies but are not included among the courses listed
in the Catholic Studies Program.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will master a topic in Catholic Studies not addressed in other
courses
CATH 301   Catholics in America   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course uses canonization, the process by which the Catholic Church
recognizes saints, to explore change over time in the history of both the
Catholic Church and the United States. Drawing upon a cast of characters
that includes saints and sinners, martyrs and missionaries, patriot priests
and unruly women, we will explore how conceptions of sanctity and
holiness have been shaped by popular devotion, papal power, gender,
race, sexuality, nationalism, and commercialization.
CATH 302   Religion & Pop Culture: Europe   (3 Credit Hours)   
In this course, we will explore how religion is lived by ordinary people
in the contexts of everyday life through various popular culture forms
and genres. We will consider how religion animates popular culture, how
popular culture itself does religious work, and how religious and non-
religious groups and individuals approach popular culture at various
times and in certain circumstances as both sacred and profane.
CATH 303   Topics in the Catholic Philosophical Tradition   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  One class in philosophy or permission of instructor   
This course examines some aspect(s) of the Catholic philosophical
tradition, drawing from various eras: its roots in ancient Greek philosophy,
through the medieval period in the work of ﬁgures such as St. Augustine
and St. Thomas Aquinas, and up to and including contemporary Catholic
philosophy.
Course equivalencies:  X-CATH 303 / PHIL 342   
Outcomes:
Students will be conversant and familiar with some central features
of the Catholic philosophical tradition, demonstrating proﬁciency in
operating within the philosophical framework of this tradition
CATH 305   Medieval Philosophy   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course deals with selected works from such authors as Augustine,
Anselm, Aquinas, Bonaventure, Scotus, and Ockham. The course may be
on a particular author, or on a theme or issue characteristic of medieval
thought.
Course equivalencies:  X-PHIL305/CATH305/MSTU344   CATH 307   13th & 14th Century Philosophy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Modern thinkers of the 13th and 14th centuries, including at least some
of the following: Albertus Magnus, Thomas Aquinas, Dun Scotus, William
of Ockham, Roger Bacon. This course will focus on Thomas Aquinas,
John Duns Scotus, and William of Ockham. In doing so we will try to get a
sense of how they carried out the practice of philosophy, especially given
the fact that each of them was a theologian by profession. Thus, the main
theme of the course will be the relation of philosophy to theology - more
broadly, faith and reason - as it was understood in this period. We will also
look at a range of other issues that were of concern to the scholastics--
chiefly questions of metaphysics and epistemology.
Course equivalencies:  X-PHIL307/CATH307   
CATH 309   History of Primitive Christianity   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course treats the history of Christian communities and beliefs from
their emergence in cities of the early Roman Principate to the legalization
of that religion in the Late Antique period.
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST309/CATH309   
Outcomes:
Students gain familiarity with messianism and eschatology in Second
Temple Judaism, evangelization and growth of urban Christian churches,
interaction with Roman Imperial government, and the flourishing of
monasticism in the period of legalization
CATH 310   The Early Middle Ages 600-1150   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines European society and culture in the early Middle
Ages.
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST310/MSTU328/CATH310   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of reasons behind the
transformation of classical civilization; the so-called fall of Rome and
the barbarian invasions; early Germanic kingdoms; Charlemagne and
Carolingian Europe; the Vikings; and church and society in the eleventh
century
CATH 311   Medieval World 1100-1500   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines European society and culture in the later Middle
Ages.
Course equivalencies:  HIST311/MSTU332/CATH311   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of new forms of schools and
learning; the origins of national monarchies; the crusades; chivalry;
courtly love and the role of women; the rise of towns; church and state
relations; the Black Death and the Hundred Years War
CATH 312   Dante-The Divine Comedy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Refashioning the conventions of poetry, Dante (1265-1321) used the
account of his presumed journey through the three realms of the
Christian afterlife - Hell, Purgatory and Paradise - to explore the world
at the close of the Middle Ages. The poem is both an adventure story
and an exhaustive, assessment of the state of politics, society, religion,
literature, philosophy, and theology at the beginning of the fourteenth
century. This course examines a selection of cantos Dante's Inferno,
Purgatorio, Paradiso in its cultural, theological, social and political
context. In particular we will explore how the underground world imagined
by the poet relates to late medieval urban life and culture. A guiding
concern of the discussion is to assess the ways in which Dante changed
our understanding of the relationship between the human and the divine,
justice and love, will and reason, happiness and knowledge, literature
and the Bible. Political turmoil, philosophical and theological paradigms
social and religious conflict all converge in the making of the Comedy and
will thus form crucial elements of our investigation.
Course equivalencies:  X-ITAL312/CATH312/MSTU364   

--- Page 283 ---
314  Catholic Studies Interdisciplinary Program
CATH 315   Mary and The Church   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course is structured as a chronological sweep through the history of
ideas on Mary and her importance for understanding the God revealed in
Jesus Christ. We will examine Mary's place throughout the seven major
ages of Christianity with particular attention to the Early Church Age.
After exploring the Mariologies of the Early Church Age, we will explore
the continued development of Mariology, spending signiﬁcant time
thinking about Mariology in the Post-Modern Age through your papers
and presentations.
Course equivalencies:  THEO315/CATH315   
CATH 316   The Reformation   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the birth and progress of the Reformation in
Europe from Luther's protest in 1517 to the conclusion of the Thirty Years
War in 1648.
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST315/CATH316   
Outcomes:
Students gain familiarity with the social, religious, intellectual, and
political background of the Reformation; Luther's personal religious
experience and his theological convictions; the Swiss Reformation of
Zwingli and Calvin; the nature and spread of Calvinism; the elements of
the Radical Reformation; and the efforts for Catholic Reform culminating
at the Council of Trent
CATH 317   Christian Thought: Ancient to Medieval   (3 Credit Hours)   
Early and medieval Christian Thought focuses upon the development of
Christian thinking from the apostolic times to the eve of the Protestant
Reformation. It centers on those individuals of the period who influenced
thinking and practice in their as well as subsequent times. It also focuses
upon important historical, social and political events that interacted with
Christian doctrines throughout the centuries.
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO317/CATH317/MSTU360   
CATH 318   Christian Thought: Reformation to Modern   (3 Credit Hours)   
The development of various Christian doctrines in light of their historical
milieu during the last six centuries of Christian thought.
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO318/CATH318   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to assess how various conﬁgurations of theological
perspectives can both expand and foreshorten the way human thinking
has gone on
CATH 320   The Philosophy of St Augustine   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a study of the principal works of Augustine, such as the
Confessions, City of God.
Course equivalencies:  X-PHIL320/CATH320/MSTU346   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers found in the works of Augustine
CATH 321   English Literature: Medieval Period   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides a survey of Old and Middle English Literature,
studied partly in translation and partly in the original. Students will
receive training in the understanding, appreciation, and criticism of works
of medieval culture.
Course equivalencies:  X-ENGL320/CATH321/MSTU308   
CATH 322   Chaucer   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces students to the life and writings of Chaucer
through the reading of a representative selection (but not necessarily
all) of The Canterbury Tales and through considering a variety of critical
perspectives on them. Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge
of Chaucer's poetry, the ability to read Middle English, and familiarity with
some critical perspectives on Chaucer's works.CATH 345   Roman Catholic Social Thought   (3 Credit Hours)   
An introduction to the social documents of the Catholic Church in the
modern era. This course presents a synthesis of the methodology, the
anthropology, and the principles used by the Church in its moral reflection
on the various social problems of our day.
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO345/CATH345   
CATH 361   St Augustine Works   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and LATN 102 or their equivalents   
This course focuses on translation and understanding of the works of
Saint Augustine.
Course equivalencies:  LATN361/CATH361   
Outcomes:
students should be able to translate these works with proﬁciency, and be
able to demonstrate knowledge in detail about the author and his works,
as well as deeper understanding and appreciation of the historical, social
and intellectual contexts and influences pertaining to them
CATH 379   Ecumenism in The 20th Century   (3 Credit Hours)   
Investigation of the principles of ecumenism as formulated in Vatican
II. Study of the agreed statements of bilateral discussions between
Christian communities.
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO379/CATH379   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to assess how various conﬁgurations of a religious
worldview can both expand and foreshorten the way human thinking has
gone on
CATH 383   Theology Arts & Literature   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Study of theological and religious symbols and themes in modern
literature and/or in the arts.
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO383/ENGL383/CATH383   
Outcomes:
The student who successfully completes this course will be able to
demonstrate knowledge about religion and its intersections with selected
contemporary ethical, social, political, economic, or cultural issues
CATH 393   Seminar Theology   (3 Credit Hours)   
An undergraduate seminar course in theology with variable content,
addressing topical issues that are not covered by the regular offerings at
the 300 level.
Outcomes:
Students will gain an in-depth understanding of a selected topic
CATH 395   Directed Readings in Catholic Studies   (3-6 Credit Hours)   
An independent program of reading and research developed in
consultation with either the Catholic Studies Program director or a
supervising faculty member that teaches in Catholic Studies, culminating
in a major project or paper.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will master a topic in Catholic Studies not addressed in other
courses
CATH 396   Seminar in Medieval Phil   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will study selected issues from medieval philosophy.
Outcomes:
Students will develop a more advanced understanding of medieval
philosophy, through direct student participation in an interactive seminar
environment

--- Page 284 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 315
Catholic Studies Minor
Loyola’s Catholic Studies minor is an interdisciplinary program that
incorporates courses in philosophy, theology, history, literature, classical
studies, political science, and the arts. Students in the program:
•Focus on the multicultural, multidisciplinary phenomenon of Roman
Catholicism.
•Explore the Catholic intellectual tradition as a set of developing
meanings and values that informs the lives of Catholic communities.
•Learn about the developing nature of Catholic beliefs and practices
through history, especially Catholicism’s relationship with modern
Western culture and political institutions.
•Discover what is often called the “Catholic imagination” in the
production and expression of culture through literature, art, theater,
and music.
•Study and engage in Catholic social teaching, issues of justice, and
what the Church calls “the preferential option for the poor. ”
Related Programs
Major
•Theology (BA)  (p. 682)
Certiﬁcate
•Christian Spirituality Certiﬁcate  (p. 1807 )
Curriculum
Each semester, courses that are approved to count toward the minor
can be found on the courses page. If you have any questions about a
speciﬁc course or about your progress toward the minor, please contact
the director, Naomi Fisher ( nﬁsher1@luc.edu ).
The Catholic Studies minor consists of six courses (18 credit hours).
No more than two courses from a single academic discipline may count
toward the minor, and at least two elective courses must be taken at
the 300-level. Academic requirements are divided into three categories:
foundational course, electives, and capstone seminar.
Code Title Hours
Foundational CourseSelect one of the following:3
CATH 296 All Things Ignatian: Living and Learning in the
Jesuit Trad 1CATH 303Topics in the Catholic Philosophical Tradition 2Elective CoursesSelect ﬁve (5) courses from the Elective Course List.  (p. 315) 315
Capstone SeminarStudents must attend three capstone seminarsTotal Hours18
1CATH 296  fulﬁlls an LUC Engaged Learning requirement and a (300-
level) Theology elective.
2CATH 303  is cross-listed with PHIL 342 , and so many instead count as
an upper level Philosophy elective.
3At least one elective must be from Philosophy, one elective must be
from Theology, and at least two electives must be 300-level.Elective Courses
Students may choose the remaining ﬁve courses from several academic
disciplines, including theology, philosophy, history, English, classical
studies, ﬁne arts, or political science. Courses may overlap with Core
Curriculum requirements. At least one elective must be from Philosophy,
at least one elective must be from Theology, and at least two must be
300-level.
Each semester, before registration is open, a list of the current courses
that are approved for the minor will be published. Below is a list of
courses from various academic disciplines which count toward the minor.
Other courses are approved on a case-by-case basis.
Code Title Hours
Catholic StudiesCATH 100Introductory Topics in Catholic Studies3-6
CATH 200 Intermediate Topics in Catholic Studies 3-6CATH 300Advanced Topics in Catholic Studies3-6
CATH 395 Directed Readings in Catholic Studies 3-6Classical StudiesCLST 288 Greek Literature in Translation (designated
sections)3CLST 289Latin Literature in Translation (designated
sections)3
LatinLATN 315The Latin Fathers (Latin prerequisite)3
LATN 361 St Augustine's Works (Latin prerequisite) 3GreekGREK 267 Intro to New Testament Greek 3GREK 315The Greek Fathers (Greek prerequisite)3
EnglishENGL 287Religion and Literature3
ENGL 290 Human Values in Literature (designated sections) 3ENGL 320English Literature: Medieval Period3
ENGL 322 Chaucer 3ENGL 323Studies in Medieval Literature3
ENGL 325 British Literature-The Renaissance 3ENGL 328Studies in The Renaissance3
ENGL 329 Milton 3ENGL 383Theology and Literature1-3
Fine ArtsFNAR 338Medieval Art3
FNAR 341 Renaissance Art - Painting 3FNAR 344Early Italian Renaissance Art3
FNAR 345 Italian High Renaissance and Mannerist Art 3FNAR 349Art and the Catholic Tradition3
HistoryHIST 101Cultures, Powers, and Identities: Western Ideas
and Institutions to 17003
HIST 310B Medieval Culture 3HIST 314AThe Jesuits: Life and History3
HIST 309 Shipwreck Archaeology 3HIST 310The Middle Ages3
HIST 314 Renaissance 3HIST 315The Reformation3

--- Page 285 ---
316  Catholic Studies Minor
ItalianITAL 314Survey 13th & 14th Century Literature3
LiteratureLITR 283 /
CATH 383Major Authors in Translation (section designated
for Dante)3
PhilosophyPHIL 190Loyola's Mission: The Philosophical Vision3
PHIL 271 Philosophy of Religion 3PHIL 304 /
CLST 304History of Ancient Philosophy3
PHIL 305 Medieval Philosophy 3PHIL 30713th & 14th Century Philosophy3
PHIL 312 Problems in the Philosophy of God 3PHIL 320The Philosophy of St Augustine3
PHIL 340 Philosophy of St Thomas Aquinas 3PHIL 342Topics in the Catholic Philosophical Tradition3
PHIL 399 Capstone Seminar on a Topic in Philosophy 3Political SciencePLSC 300 Contemporary Political Issues 3SociologySOCL 145 Religion & Society 3TheologyTHEO 100 Christian Theology 3THEO 232New Testament3
THEO 265 Sacraments and the Christian Imagination 3THEO 266Church & Global Cultures3
THEO 267 Jesus Christ 3THEO 279Roman Catholicism3
THEO 280 Religion & Interdisciplinary Studies 3THEO 293Christian Marriage3
THEO 311 The Meaning of Jesus Christ 3THEO 313Gospels of Matthew, Mark & Luke3
THEO 317 Christian Thought: Ancient-Medieval 3THEO 318Christian Thought: Reformation to Modern3
THEO 330 Liberation Theology 3THEO 383Theology Arts & Literature1-3
Capstone Seminars
All students working toward a Catholic studies minor must attend three
capstone seminars with the program director or a designated Catholic
studies faculty member during the ﬁnal semester of the senior year. Two
capstone seminars involve making presentations to fellow seniors. The
purpose of these two presentations is to create an informal context for
students to explore and discuss the relationship between the Catholic
intellectual and artistic tradition and their major ﬁeld of study using
various media, including ﬁlm, literature, theology, philosophy, poetry,
autobiography, music, and development in the sciences. At the third
capstone seminar, students will present their work to faculty members
and a larger group of students participating in the Catholic studies minor.
Extracurricular Activities
The Catholic Studies program works closely with the Joan and Bill Hank
Center for the Catholic Intellectual Heritage to promote a community of
learning for students and faculty.Students can take advantage of many academic, cultural, social, and
religious opportunities including lectures, retreats, concerts, internships,
social events, and group activities designed for the Catholic studies
minors. The Loyola University Museum of Art (LUMA) often hosts exhibits
and lectures focusing on artists who create their work through their
exploration and interaction with Catholicism.
Research Fellowship
Every year, the Joan and Bill Hank Center for the Catholic Intellectual
Heritage (CCIH), in support of the Catholic Studies Minor, funds a one-
year fellowship to undergraduate students who are currently enrolled
in the Catholic Studies Minor program. This fellowship is dedicated to
the support of CCIH-funded faculty research projects, as well as CCIH's
international research projects. Interested students should submit a
completed application online through the Loyola Undergraduate Research
Opportunities Program (LUROP) by March 1.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Sequence 1
Semester ICATH 296 
or CATH 303All Things Ignatian: Living and Learning in
the Jesuit Trad 
or Topics in the Catholic Philosophical
Tradition3 Hours3
Semester IILower Division Elective  13 Hours3
Semester IIILower Division Elective  13 Hours3
Semester IVLower Division Elective  13 Hours3
Semester VUpper Division Elective  13 Hours3
Semester VIUpper Division Elective  13 Hours3 Total Hours18
1At least one elective must be a THEO course; at least one elective must
be a PHIL course. Only two courses from a single discipline can count
toward the minor.
Double Dipping Policy
Per recommendations from the CAS's Academic Council, Catholic Studies
will adhere to and enforce the following policies:

--- Page 286 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 317
•Not less than 6 credit hours in the individual student's transcript
must be unique to each minor; that is, the courses in question are
considered as actually fulﬁlling requirements of one minor, not of
more than one minor or major.
•General exceptions will be made if approved by the chairs/directors
of the department(s)/program(s) housing each affected major and
minor. A list of standing general exceptions will be maintained by the
Dean's ofﬁce.
•Individual student exceptions may be made in appropriate cases
by the Program Director. As always, comprehensive education is
encouraged and valued; alternative classes and approaches may
provide the perfect ﬁt.
•As always, students are to make certain that an individual tracking
sheet has been ﬁlled out with the Program Director and ﬁled with the
student's advisor.
•Departments and Programs may enforce stricter double-dipping
policies than those stated above, which also should be provided to
the Dean's Ofﬁce.
Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this program, students will:
•understand the nature of reality as advanced in Roman Catholicism,
including the nature of the human person, our relations and
obligations to each other and God, and the manner in which we come
to know timeless truths. Students will be conversant with this vision
as it is presented throughout the history of Catholicism, in thinkers
such as St. Augustine, Pseudo-Dionysius the Areopagite, and St.
Thomas Aquinas.
•engage with become familiar with the “Catholic imagination”, as
the manner in which Catholicism informs and enriches imaginative
expression in the arts, in movements such as the Renaissance and
the Catholic literary revival of the 19th and 20th centuries.
•know and be able to engage with Church history, including its
institutional history and the development of doctrine and practice as
well as the expression of Catholicism at various times, places, and
cultures.
•understand and engage with the speciﬁcally Catholic notion of social
justice, as advancing the common good through a holy life.
Chemistry and Biochemistry
The Department of Chemistry features strong programs in both
undergraduate and graduate education. We offer BS degrees
accredited by the American Chemical Society (ACS) in Chemistry and
in Biochemistry as well as BA degrees and minors in chemistry. Many
undergraduate chemistry majors participate in the student afﬁliate of the
American Chemical Society. Numerous opportunities for undergraduate
research also exist and students are encouraged to participate in faculty
directed research projects.
We also offer programs leading to MS and PhD degrees with
specialization in Analytical, Biological, Chemistry Education, Inorganic,
Organic, and Physical chemistry.
Undergraduate Programs
•Biochemistry (BA)  (p. 323)
•Biochemistry (BS)  (p. 325)
•Biochemistry (BS/MS)  (p. 1006 )•Chemistry (BA)  (p. 328)
•Chemistry (BS)  (p. 330)
•Chemistry (BS/MS)  (p. 1053 )
•Chemistry Minor  (p. 332)
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Chemistry (CHEM)
Biochemistry students should visit the Biology page for their course
descriptions  (p. 288).
CHEM 101   General Chemistry A Lecture/Discussion   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 117 or equivalent   
Co-requisites:  CHEM 111 and MATH 118   
A year of high school chemistry is recommended; This non-majors
course deals with the development of basic chemical principles.
Multiple perspectives of matter will be used to describe and explain
characteristics, properties, and relationships across the following topics:
atomic structure, nuclear chemistry, periodicity, molecular structure,
chemical bonding, chemical reactions, thermochemistry, aqueous
solutions, gases
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics, Forensic Science   
Course equivalencies:  ACCHM / CHEM 101   
Outcomes:
Students will learn the foundational concepts of chemistry in these topic
areas and develop skills in scientiﬁc problem solving and critical thinking
CHEM 102   General Chemistry B Lecture/Discussion   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 101 or CHEM105; MATH 118 or equivalent   
This non-majors course further develops principles from CHEM 101
& requires in-depth integration of concepts. Multiple perspectives of
matter will be used to describe/explain characteristics, properties, &
relationships across the following topics: liquids & solids, solutions,
reaction kinetics, equilibria, acids & bases, reaction thermodynamics,
electrochemical reactions.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics, Forensic Science   
Course equivalencies:  ACCHM / CHEM 102   
Outcomes:
Students will deepen their understanding of foundational concepts of
chemistry and advance their skills in scientiﬁc problem solving, critical
thinking and synthesis of concepts
CHEM 102D   General Chemistry B Discussion   (0 Credit Hours)   
Discussion to accompany the CHEM 102 lecture section.
CHEM 105   Chemical Principles   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Math Placement Test or Math 117   
Lecture, discussion and laboratory course for majors covering
stoichiometry, reactions in aqueous solution, states of matter, electronic
structure, thermodynamics, chemical bonding, molecular geometry and
intermolecular forces. Emphasis given to writing electron conﬁgurations
and Lewis diagrams, predicting molecular geometry and properties,
mass/mole conversions and solving thermodynamic and gas law
problems.
Outcomes:
Students will learn basic chemical principles in these areas

--- Page 287 ---
318  Chemistry and Biochemistry
CHEM 106   Basic Inorganic Chemistry   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 105 AND MATH 118 or equivalent   
Laboratory course designed to illustrate fundamental models and
theories in chemistry with an emphasis on signiﬁcant digits, calculations,
and analysis and discussion questions.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics, Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to use equipment properly and demonstrate correct
laboratory technique
CHEM 111   General Chemistry Lab A   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 117 or placement test equivalent   
Laboratory course designed to illustrate fundamental models and
theories in chemistry with an emphasis on signiﬁcant digits, calculations,
and analysis and discussion questions.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics, Forensic Science   
Course equivalencies:  ACCHM / CHEM 111   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to use equipment properly and demonstrate correct
laboratory technique
CHEM 112   General Chemistry Lab B   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 101 and 111 (or CHEM 105) and MATH 118 (or
equivalent)   
The second semester of general chemistry laboratory exposes students
to qualitative analysis and continues the process of experimenting and
collecting data to test the validity of theories and models presented in
lecture.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics, Forensic Science   
Course equivalencies:  ACCHM / CHEM 112   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate success in lab by making perceptive
qualitative observations and accurate quantitative measurements
CHEM 160   Chemical Structure and Properties   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 117 or equivalent   
Lecture and discussion course designed to create foundational
knowledge and proﬁciency in essential chemistry concepts and skills.
Topics include atomic structure, periodic properties, bonding and
properties of molecules, solid states, interactions and connections of
light and matter, quantum and molecular mechanics models of atoms
and molecules.
Outcomes:
Students will use multiple perspectives of matter to describe and
explain how atomic, molecular and interparticle structure determines the
properties of common materials
CHEM 161   Chemical Structure and Properties Laboratory   (1 Credit
Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 117 or equivalent   
Laboratory course designed to create foundational knowledge and
proﬁciency in essential chemistry lab skills including developing the
knowledge and use of PPE, MSDS, and Chemical labels, basic statistical
analysis and graphing, proper usage of common laboratory equipment
and instrumentation, and keeping a laboratory notebook and writing
reports.
Outcomes:
Students will learn essential chemistry lab skills, including best practices
for chemical safety and hygiene, laboratory equipment, instrumentation,
writing techniques, and measurementsCHEM 171   General Chemistry for Engineering Science Majors   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 118 or Math Placement Test; Co-requisite
CHEM 173; Restricted to Engineering Science Students; A good
background in high school chemistry is recommendation   
This course is designed to acquaint students in engineering science
with fundamental concepts of chemistry as well as their applications
in the ﬁeld of engineering. Students will survey topics in atomic
structure, periodicity, chemical bonding, chemical reactions and reaction
stoichiometry, gases, chemical thermodynamics, chemical kinetics,
chemical equilibrium, and electrochemistry. A good background in high
school chemistry is recommendation.
Outcomes:
Students should demonstrate proﬁcient understanding of fundamental
concepts and skills of general chemistry as well as their applications in
the ﬁeld of engineering
CHEM 173   General Chemistry Lab for Engineering Science Majors   (1
Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 118 or equivalent; Co-requisite: CHEM 173;
Enrollment is restricted to declared ENGR majors; A good background in
high school chemistry is recommendation   
This lab course is a companion course to CHEM 171 General Chemi stry
for Engineering Science and is designed to support the development
of chemistry concepts within the following topics: atomic structure,
periodicity, chemical bonding, chemical reactions and reaction
stoichiometry, gases, chemical thermodynamics, chemical kinetics,
chemical equilibrium, and electrochemistry.
CHEM 180   Chemical Reactivity I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 160 and MATH 118 or equivalent   
Lecture and discussion course designed to create foundational
knowledge and proﬁciency in essential chemistry concepts and skills.
Topics include acids and bases, buffers, chemical equilibrium, molecular
thermodynamics and kinetics, nucleophilic substitutions, elimination
reactions, carbonyl compounds and reactions with applications to
biochemical pathways.
Outcomes:
Students will use qualitative and quantitative representations of matter
to describe, explain, and predict how molecular structure and stability
changes over time in chemical reactions
CHEM 181   Chemical Reactivity I Lab   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 160, CHEM 161, and MATH 118 or equivalent   
Laboratory course designed to utilize experiments to illustrate
the relationships between the structures of compounds and their
resulting properties Topics include identiﬁcation of compounds using
chromatography, mass spectrometry, infrared spectroscopy, and NMR,
separation methods. Additional skills in analytical reasoning and
information literacy will also be developed.
Outcomes:
Students will establish best practices for working safely in lab, analyzing
compounds, interpreting spectra, and puriﬁcation of reaction products
CHEM 195   Foundational Concepts in Chemistry   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Foundational Chemistry seminar/topics course, 1-3 credit hours.
Chemical topics vary by section and are selected from the CHEM 100-
and/or 200-level Departmental curriculum. Departmental consent
required.
Outcomes:
Students will use multiple perspectives of matter to describe and explain
characteristics, properties, and relationships of chemical systems

--- Page 288 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 319
CHEM 212   Quantitative Analysis Lecture   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 106 or 102 and 112   
This lecture course provides an introduction to modern analytical
quantitative chemistry. Topics include chemical equilibrium, statistical
analysis of data as well as modern and classical methods of chemical
analysis.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
CHEM 214   Quantitative Analysis Laboratory   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 106 or 102 and 112; Pre or co-requisite: CHEM 212   
This laboratory course introduces students to classical and modern
methods of chemical analysis and teaches wet chemical laboratory
techniques.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
CHEM 221   Organic Chemistry I Lec/Disc   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 106; Chemistry and Biochemistry majors only   
A lecture, discussion and laboratory course for chemistry majors covering
structure and bonding in organic molecules; nomenclature, chemical and
physical properties and reactions of non-aromatic hydrocarbons, alkyl
halides, alcohols, ethers; stereochemistry and conformational analysis;
and spectroscopy.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics, Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the chemical behavior of organic molecules and
the mechanisms of reactions
CHEM 222   Organic Chemistry II Lec/Disc   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 221; Chemistry & Biochemistry majors only   
A lecture, discussion and laboratory course for chemistry majors
continuing from 221 covering nomenclature, properties, reactions,
syntheses, and spectroscopy of further classes of aliphatic and aromatic
compounds, carbohydrates and other polyfunctional compounds.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics, Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to assign IUPAC names, spectroscopically identify,
prepare, and propose reactions for these groups
CHEM 223   Organic Chemistry A Lec/Disc   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (CHEM 102 or CHEM 106) and MATH 118 (or equivalent)   
Lecture and discussion course for non-chemistry majors surveying
nomenclature, structures, properties, stereochemistry, reactions,
mechanisms, and syntheses of aliphatic hydrocarbons, alkyl halides,
alcohols, and ethers.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics, Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Students will identify classes of organic compounds and typical
reactions, discriminate amongst intermediate stabilities, postulate
reaction mechanisms, plan multi-step syntheses, and analyze/interpret
spectroscopic data
CHEM 224   Organic Chemistry B Lec/Disc   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 223 or 221   
The second semester lecture and discussion course of a two semester
sequence, a continuation of CHEM 223 for non-chemistry majors
emphasizing the organic chemistry of conjugated systems, aromatic
compounds, carbonyl compounds, amines, carboxylic acids and their
derivatives, carbohydrates, lipids, and proteins.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics, Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Students will identify classes of organic compounds and typical
reactions, discriminate amongst intermediate stabilities, postulate
reaction mechanisms, plan multi-step syntheses, and analyze/interpret
spectroscopic dataCHEM 225   Organic Chemistry Lab A   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 102 and 112 (or CHEM 106) and MATH 118 (or
equivalent)   
A laboratory course for non-chemistry majors designed to reinforce
lecture topics from CHEM 223 and to expose students to the safe
handling of organic chemicals.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Students will acquire basic laboratory techniques and practices for
working with organic chemicals
CHEM 226   Organic Chemistry Lab B   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 223 and CHEM 225 (or CHEM 221)   
A laboratory course for non-chemistry majors designed to reinforce
lecture topics from 224 and to expose students to organic synthesis.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Students will perform reactions to prepare known organic compounds
and then isolate and characterize the reaction products
CHEM 240   Chemical Reactivity II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 180 and CHEM 181; Bioinformatics majors have Pre-
requisite: CHEM 180 Outcomes: Students will increase their ability to use
qualitative and quantitative representations of matter to describe, explain,
and predict how molecular structure and stability changes over time in
chemical reactions   
Lecture and discussion course designed to create foundational
knowledge and proﬁciency in essential chemistry concepts and
skills. Topics include the reactivity of: alkenes, arenes, alkynes, and
polyfunctional organic molecules. These topics will expand and enhance
the ability to use chemical principles to explain natural phenomena.
CHEM 241   Chemical Reactivity II Laboratory   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 180 and CHEM 181   
Laboratory course designed to teach students how to perform chemical
synthesis reactions and to evaluate and report the results.
Outcomes:
Students will utilize best practices for working safely in lab and for
synthesizing, purifying, and characterizing chemical compounds
CHEM 242   Chemical Synthesis Laboratory   (2 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 180 and CHEM 181   
Laboratory course designed to teach students how to perform chemical
synthesis reactions and to evaluate and report the results. Students will
also learn how to search the chemistry literature for existing synthesis
laboratory procedures.
Outcomes:
Students will utilize best practices for working safely in lab and for
synthesizing, purifying, and characterizing chemical compounds
CHEM 260   Quantitative Methods in Chemistry   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 180, CHEM 181 and MATH 131 (or MATH 161); BIOI-
BS majors, Pre-requisite: CHEM 180 and MATH 131 (or MATH 161)   
Lecture and discussion course designed to create foundational
knowledge and proﬁciency in essential chemistry concepts and skills.
Topics include quantitative description of gases, liquids, and solutions,
kinetics of chemical reactions, chemical equilibria, acids and bases,
the thermodynamics of chemical reactions, electrochemistry, and
spectroscopy.
Outcomes:
Students will deepen their understanding of foundational concepts of
chemistry and advance their skills in scientiﬁc problem solving, critical
thinking, and synthesis of concepts

--- Page 289 ---
320  Chemistry and Biochemistry
CHEM 261   Quantitative Methods in Chemistry Laboratory   (1 Credit
Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 180 and CHEM 181 and MATH 131 (or MATH 161)   
Laboratory course designed for non-majors. The course provides
students continued laboratory and chemical safety topics, scientiﬁc
writing, peer review, and importance of articulating lab results in content.
It will teach students how to perform chemical analysis using a variety of
techniques including titration, kinetics, and spectrophotometry. Students
also learn about the peer review process.
Outcomes:
Students will utilize best practices for working safely in lab during
experiments designed to include kinetics, acids & bases, buffers, and
spectrophotometry
CHEM 272   Analytical Chemistry Laboratory   (2 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 180, CHEM 181, and MATH 131 (or MATH 161)   
This course continues exposure to laboratory and chemical safety topics,
scientiﬁc writing, and articulating experiment results. The course utilizes
hands-on lab experiments to teach a variety of analytical methods for
quantifying a diverse set of chemical species. Data analysis, calibration
methods, peer review are also of focus.
Outcomes:
Students will utilize best practices for lab safety, demonstrate application
of analytical methods in chemical analysis, articulate results through
scientiﬁc writing, and explain importance of accuracy & precision of data
CHEM 280   Environmental & Chemical Analysis   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 240 and CHEM 260; Pre- or Co-requisite: CHEM 272   
Lecture and discussion course designed to create foundational
knowledge and proﬁciency in essential chemistry concepts and skills.
Topics include the chemical analytical process, sample preparation,
quantitative analysis, and data evaluation and validation. These topics
will expand and enhance the ability to use chemical principles to analyze
various types of environmental samples.
Outcomes:
Students will increase their ability to use both qualitative and quantitative
reasoning to follow the chemical analytical process for various types of
samples encountered in the Environment, Life Sciences, and Industry
CHEM 300   Undergraduate Research   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Prior consultation with the instructor and a completed
agreement form; Agreement forms for this directed study course are
obtained from the department ofﬁce, and the completed form (signed
by the student, instructor, and chairperson) must be deposited in the
chemistry ofﬁce before the student can register for the course   
This course gives undergraduate students an opportunity to participate in
research in a selected area.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will accomplish the research task deﬁned in the contractual
arrangement between the student and the instructor
CHEM 300P   Introduction to Chemistry Research   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 101 and 111 (or CHEM 105)   
This two week course will focus on issues of chemical safety, research
protocols, data recording, and instrumentation use. Typical course
meetings will involve in-class presentations, group discussions, and
hands-on experience.
Outcomes:
Expose students to of essential and important issues of chemical safety,
research protocols, data recording, and instrumentation use for students
preparing for undergraduate and graduate chemistry researchCHEM 301   Physical Chemistry I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (CHEM 240 and CHEM 260) or CHEM 222 or CHEM 224;
and MATH 162 or 263A; and PHYS 112 or 122   
Lecture and discussion course covering principles and applications
of thermodynamics and kinetic theory and emphasizing the laws of
thermodynamics and statistical theory and their ramiﬁcations for
equilibrium and non-equilibrium systems.
Outcomes:
Students will acquire fundamental knowledge of work, heat, their
interconversions and the relationships between entropy, free energy and
heat capacity
CHEM 302   Physical Chemistry II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (CHEM 240 and CHEM 260) or CHEM 222 or CHEM 224;
and MATH 162 or 263A; and PHYS 112 or 122   
Lecture and discussion course covering principles of quantum mechanics
with the applications to chemical properties and spectroscopy of atoms
and molecules.
Outcomes:
Students will acquire fundamental knowledge of the physical laws that
govern chemical processes, and learn how to apply these laws to predict
the structure and properties of chemical systems
CHEM 303   Physical Chemistry Lab I   (2 Credit Hours)   
Co-requisites:  CHEM 302   
Pre or This course covers principles and techniques of experimental
physical chemistry including the practice of numerical data analysis,
solid-state electronics, and vacuum technology along with their
applications to magnetic resonance, high-resolution spectroscopy, and
chemical thermodynamics. Outcome: Students will acquire broad-based
knowledge of laboratory skills central to experimental physical chemistry.
CHEM 305   Physical Biochemistry for the Biological Sciences   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (CHEM 240 and 260) or CHEM 222 or CHEM 224, and
PHYS 112, and MATH 132 or equivalent; Restricted to Biochemistry and
Forensic Science majors   
Lecture course covering principles and biological applications of
thermodynamics, kinetics, quantum mechanics and molecular
spectroscopy.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Students will learn how fundamental concepts in physical chemis try can
be used to understand biological processes
CHEM 306   Physical Biochemistry Lab   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 305   
This laboratory course will introduce apparatus, and analysis used in
experimental physical chemistry for biochemistry students.
Outcomes:
Students will acquire broad-based knowledge of laboratory skills central
to biophysical chemistry
CHEM 307   Inorganic Chemistry   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (CHEM 240 and CHEM 242 and CHEM 260) or CHEM 222 or
(CHEM 224 and CHEM 226); Restricted to Biochemistry majors   
Lecture course covering atomic structure, chemical bonding, and
transition metal, solid state, organometallic and bioinorganic chemistry.
Outcomes:
Students will learn chemical principles in important areas of inorganic
chemistry

--- Page 290 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 321
CHEM 314   Instrumental Analysis   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (CHEM 272 and CHEM 280) or (CHEM 212, CHEM 214, and
(CHEM 222 or (CHEM 224 and CHEM 226); and PHYS 112 or PHYS 122;
Restricted to Chemistry majors   
This course discusses and demonstrates how instrumental techniques
such as atomic spectroscopy, molecular spectroscopy, mass
spectrometry and chemical separations can be used to identify the
chemical composition of a sample. The hands-on approach will enable
students to perform instrumental analysis independently.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to select the most suitable analytical method to
identify a sample
CHEM 323   Medicinal Chemistry   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 361 or CHEM 370   
This course examines how medicinal chemists design and synthesi ze
drug candidates to meet FDA requirements of efﬁcacy and safety, and
how a testing strategy measures efﬁcacy vs. toxicity comprising the
therapeutic index. Topics include drug-receptor/enzyme binding, PK,
ADME, patenting of IP , and the ethical aspects of pharmaceuticals.
Outcomes:
Students will be able explain the strategy of drug candidate analog
design, synthesis, binding and inhibition constants, drug testing
strategies, pharmacokinetics, structure-activity relationships (SAR), and
the therapeutic index of drugs
CHEM 340   Advanced Inorganic Chemistry   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 302   
Lecture course covering modern theories of atomic and molecular
structure as applied to inorganic chemistry with discussion of acid-base
theories, the chemistry, spectra and reaction mechanisms of coordination
and organometallic compounds. Symmetry is used to develop molecular
orbital diagrams, predict geometry, hybridization schemes and interpret
electronic spectra.
Outcomes:
Students will learn chemical principles in these areas
CHEM 341   Advanced Inorganic Laboratory   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre- or co-requisites:  CHEM 340   
A laboratory course illustrating topics and techniques used in modern
inorganic chemistry; coordination and organometallic compounds are
prepared and characterized by IR, UV-Vis and NMR spectroscopy, and
magnetic susceptibility measurements. All experimental work is recorded
in a laboratory notebook and includes a formal written report.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate success in lab by making perceptive
qualitative observations and accurate quantitative measurements
CHEM 361   Principles of Biochemistry   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 222 or CHEM 224 or (CHEM 240 pre-req and
CHEM 260 co-req)   
This course examines the structural' functional relationships in proteins,
nucleic acids, carbohydrates and lipids as well as their metabolic
pathways. CHEM 361 is cross-listed with BIOL 366. CHEM 361 may not
count towards CHEM-BS, BIOC-BS, or BIOC-BA degrees. These students
must take CHEM 370.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics   
Course equivalencies:  X-BIOL366/BIOI366/CHEM361   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of biological
molecules and how they are metabolizedCHEM 365   Proteomics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 361 or CHEM 370   
Proteomics describes and deciphers the protein structures that are the
result of biochemical interactions encoded in a genome. To understand
these processes, proteins have to be identiﬁed, sequenced, categorized,
and classiﬁed with respect to their function and interaction in a protein
network. This course will teach students how to characterize functional
protein networks, examine their dynamic alteration during physiological
and pathological processes. The course will also cover techniques to
analyze and identify proteins using protein databases and study protein
to protein interactions in the discover of drugs for diseases.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics   
Course equivalencies:  CHEM365/BIOI386   
CHEM 370   Biochemistry I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 222 or (CHEM 224 and CHEM 226) or (CHEM 240
and CHEM 242 pre-req, and CHEM 260 co-req); Restricted to Chemistry
and Biochemistry majors   
This is the ﬁrst part of a two-semester Biochemistry series that
emphasizes important biochemical concepts on the structure and
function of proteins, enzymes, carbohydrates, lipids and cell membranes
as well as on the bioenergetic and regulatory principles behind the central
and carbohydrate pathways. Chemistry and Biochemistry majors must
take CHEM 370. CHEM 361 may not count towards CHEM-BS, BIOC-BS, or
BIOC-BA degrees.
Course equivalencies:  X- CHEM 370/CHEM 470   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of structural-
functional relationships in biological molecules and how carbohydrates
are metabolized
CHEM 371   Biochemistry II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 370   
This is the second part of a two-semester Biochemistry lecture series that
emphasizes important biochemical concepts on lipid, amino acid and
nucleotide metabolic pathways as well as the structure and function of
nucleic acids. Special topics on sensory systems, motility, immunology
and drug development will also be discussed.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of metabolic
pathways and of current research topics in biochemistry
CHEM 372   Biochemistry Laboratory I   (2 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 242 or CHEM 222 or CHEM 226; and (CHEM 260 and
CHEM 272) or (CHEM 212 and CHEM 214); and CHEM 370; Restricted to
Biochemistry majors   
This laboratory is designed to simulate a research experience and
to teach basic techniques utilized in a biochemistry laboratory. The
course theme involves a comparative investigation of the enzyme
glyceraidehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) from various
animal sources. All procedures required in lab will be found by the
student in the library and proposed to the instructor(s) as a pre-lab
exercise. Each two-student team will be working on GAPDH from either an
aquatic or land animal source, e.g., trout, tuna, pork beef or chicken.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to purify and characterize an enzyme in a research
context

--- Page 291 ---
322  Chemistry and Biochemistry
CHEM 373   Biochemistry Laboratory II   (2 Credit Hours)   
This laboratory course is designed to simulate a research project in which
molecular biology techniques and biochemistry are integrated. Those
techniques are used as important tools to help solve questions in enzyme
structure and function. he course theme involves an investigation on the
relationship between protein structure and function of the ADP-glucose
pyrophosphorylase (ADP-Glc PPase) from Escherichia coli. All procedure
required in lab will be found by the student in the library and proposed
to the instructor(s) as a pre-lab exercise. Each two-student team will be
working on a speciﬁc ADP-Glc PPase that has been previously obtained in
a recombinant form. Their genes will be provided in a plasmid form. The
student will learn strategies to produce and test a hypothesis in this area.
Additionally, the student will learn how to integrate molecular biology
techniques and biochemistry.
Outcomes:
Students will study the basic concepts of enzyme structure relationships
and how to investigate them
CHEM 380   Chemistry Seminar   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 240 or CHEM 222 or CHEM 224   
A weekly seminar course with presentations, generally given by outside
speakers, covering topics in chemistry usually not encountered in the
classroom.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate their understanding by writing a one page
summary of each presentation
CHEM 385   Advanced Enzyme Kinetics and Mechanisms   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 370   
The major themes in this course will be topics that are related to modern
enzymology. The structure of this course will involve lectures by Dr.
Ballicora for each topic, and discussion with the students.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand enzyme mechanisms and be able to
make oral presentations on recently published articles
CHEM 386   The Chemistry of Enzymes   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 370, restricted to Biochemistry majors   
The course describes the chemical strategies employed by enzymes to
accelerate reactions combined with an examination of the specialized
methods employed to study enzyme chemistry. The course is lecture
based with concurrent problems sets. The course content will focus on
deductive reasoning to understand what is observed how best analyze
data obtained from the study of enzymes.
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of transient state chemical kinetics
as it pertains to the study of enzymesCHEM 387   Plant Biochemistry   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 370   
The major themes in this course will be about topics that are related
to plant biochemistry and metabolism. The structure of the course
will involve lectures for each topic, with discussion with the students.
Students will learn how plants and photosynthetic organisms acquire
and process energy. Plant metabolism will constitute a central part of the
course, focusing on the main differences from other living organisms. A
solid understanding of plant metabolism will inspire the student to think
about all the possibilities that plant biochemistry and biotechnology offer
to solve critical problems, such as malnutrition, global climate change,
drug discovery, and infectious diseases.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand how knowledge of plant bioc hemistry
is important in many areas, including medicine, nutrition and climate
change
CHEM 388   Biophysical Chemistry   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHEM 361 or 370   
Survey of experimental methods for the physicochemical
characterization of biomolecules. Topics include electrophoresis,
mass spectrometry, calorimetry, optical spectroscopy, NMR, and X-ray
crystallography.
Outcomes:
Students will have a conceptual understanding of different experimental
methods for the physicochemical characterization of biomolecules and
will be able to evaluate utility and limitations of the different approaches
CHEM 395   Special Topics in Chemistry   (0-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Satisfactory progress toward completion of the core
chemistry courses, and junior or senior status   
Course content varies from semester to semester and has included
advanced topics in analytical, inorganic, organic, physical, and
biochemistry.
Outcomes:
Students will acquire an advanced understanding of a selected topic in
chemistry
CHEM 395B   Bioethics Minor Capstone: Chemical Topics   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Two Science courses and two Ethics courses   
This course number will only be used when CHEM 395 is tagged with the
Bioethics Minor Capstone course.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the connection between ethical and chemical
issues with regard to the special topic in chemistry
CHEM 396   Special Topics in Biochemistry   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
1) Course content varies from semester to semester and includes
advanced topics in biochemistry. 2) Satisfactory progress toward
completion of the core chemistry courses, and junior or senior status. 3)
Students will acquire an advanced understanding of a selected topic in
biochemistry.

--- Page 292 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 323
CHEM 399   Internship in Biochemistry or Chemistry   (2-3 Credit Hours)   
A supervised ﬁeld placement to give students training or work experience
in aspects of biochemistry or chemistry that are not commonly available
on campus. Students will work outside the classroom (e.g. industrial
setting or national lab) applying and extending their biochemis try or
chemistry skills, typically for at least 150 hours to receive 3 credits or for
more than 100 hours for 2 credits. Permission of faculty advisor Students
must complete a total of 3 credits to receive engaged learning credit.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will acquire practical experience in biochemistry or chemistry
related job settings
Biochemistry (BA)
The Department of Chemistry & Biochemistry offers four undergraduate
major degree programs: BA in Chemistry, BA in Biochemistry, BS in
Chemistry, and the BS in Biochemistry.  These programs follow prescribed
professional guidelines and the CHEM-BS degree is approved by the
American Chemical Society. Loyola programs are unique because of the
close contact between students and faculty, due to smaller class sizes
in advanced classes. Chemistry & Biochemistry faculty members spend
signiﬁcant time assisting students both in and out of the class room.
Loyola's Bachelor of Science (BS) degree programs in Chemistry
or Biochemistry offer opportunities to excel in a fundamental area of
science. The prestige of these programs is based on the success of
students in developing their goals for work in industry, academia, and/
or diverse professional schools and in adopting the Loyola mission of
applying knowledge in the service of humanity.
The programs in Chemistry and Biochemistry lay ﬁrm foundations for
majors and give other students a cultural background in these ﬁelds.
The BS programs are intended primarily for those undergraduates who
have career goals in Chemistry or Biochemistry (i.e., an industrial or
academic chemistry career most probably following graduate training for
the MS and/or PhD degrees) but are also good preparation for careers in
medicine, law, pharmacy and other professions.
The BA programs are intended for those undergraduates who have career
goals in ﬁelds other than Chemistry or Biochemistry, but for which a
strong background is desirable (e.g., medicine, dentistry, technical sales,
patent law).  These programs are also intended to provide additional
schedule flexibility for students (e.g., study abroad, early graduation,
double majors).
Related Programs
Major
•Biochemistry (BS)  (p. 325)
•Chemistry (BA)  (p. 328)
•Chemistry (BS)  (p. 330)
Combined
•Biochemistry (BS/MS)  (p. 1006 )
Curriculum
LUC Chemistry is taking a modern, integrated approach to foundational
coursework.
•Aligns with the latest American Chemical Society (ACS) and American
Association of Medical Colleges (AAMC) standards & guidelines•Themes: structure-activity relationships; culture and practice
of science; energy; polymers, proteins, and macromolecules;
sustainability; chemical synthesis, puriﬁcation, characterization, and
analysis.
•With such knowledge and skills, you should be prepared to further
excel in upper-level coursework that specializes your work in the
speciﬁc major you have chosen.
In addition to the required courses listed below, CHEM 300  Undergraduate
Research  is strongly recommended. Credit hours earned
in CHEM 300  Undergraduate Research  or CHEM 380  Chemistry
Seminar  do not count as elective hours satisfying the
BS degree requirement. Both  CHEM 300  Undergraduate
Research  and  CHEM 380  Chemistry Seminar  are required for
Departmental honors. The CHEM-BS degree is accredited by the
American Chemical Society.
Code Title Hours
Chemistry Courses RequiredCHEM 160Chemical Structure and Properties3
CHEM 161 Chemical Structure and Properties Laboratory 1CHEM 180Chemical Reactivity I3
CHEM 181 Chemical Reactivity I Lab 1CHEM 240Chemical Reactivity II3
CHEM 242 Chemical Synthesis Laboratory 2CHEM 260Quantitative Methods in Chemistry3
CHEM 272 Analytical Chemistry Laboratory 2CHEM 305Physical Biochemistry for the Biological Sciences3
CHEM 306 Physical Biochemistry Lab 1CHEM 307Inorganic Chemistry3
CHEM 370 Biochemistry I 3CHEM 371Biochemistry II3
Biochemistry Focus ElectiveSelect one of the following:3
CHEM 365 ProteomicsCHEM 385Advanced Enzyme Kinetics and MechanismsCHEM 386 The Chemistry of EnzymesCHEM 387Plant BiochemistryCHEM 388 Biophysical ChemistryBiochemistry ElectiveSelect one of the following: 3CHEM 323Medicinal ChemistryCHEM 365 ProteomicsCHEM 385Advanced Enzyme Kinetics and MechanismsCHEM 386 The Chemistry of EnzymesCHEM 387Plant BiochemistryCHEM 388 Biophysical ChemistryCHEM 396Special Topics in BiochemistryBIOL 335 Intro to BiostatisticsBIOL 380Genetics and Evolution of DevelopmentBIOL 382 Molecular GeneticsBIOL 388BioinformaticsBIOL 389 Introduction to PharmacologyPhysics Courses RequiredPHYS 111 College Physics I Lec / Dis 3

--- Page 293 ---
324  Biochemistry (BA)PHYS 112College Physics II Lec/Disc3
PHYS 111L College Physics Laboratory I 1PHYS 112LCollege Physics Lab II1
Math Courses RequiredMATH 131Applied Calculus I3or MATH 161Calculus I
MATH 132 Applied Calculus II 3
or MATH 162 Calculus IIBiology Courses RequiredBIOL 101 General Biology I 3BIOL 102General Biology II3
BIOL 111 General Biology I Lab 1BIOL 112General Biology II Lab1
BIOL 251 Cell Biology 3BIOL 282Genetics3BIOL 283Genetics Laboratory1Total Hours66
•Core requirements  (p. 1405 )
•Please visit http://www.luc.edu/cas/
academics_degreerequirements.shtml#college  (https://www.luc.edu/
cas/academics_degreerequirements.shtml/#college ) to view other
CAS requirements.
•For chemistry course descriptions and pre and co-requisite
information, please visit here  (p. 317).
All chemistry majors are assigned a chemistry faculty advisor. Please
meet with your advisor on a regular basis, at least twice a year, for
assistance with your chemistry schedule, research possibilities, graduate
school information and more. If you do not know who your advisor is
please call the chemistry department at 773/508-3100 or come to the
department ofﬁce located in Flanner Hall room 125.
Suggested Sequence of Chemistry, Biology, Math, and
Physics Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Students not placing in MATH 118 Precalculus II  or higher cannot start
the Chemistry sequence until MATH 117 Precalculus I  is completed with
a grade of C- or better. Such students are advised to enroll in ﬁrst-year
Chemistry courses in the summer sessions (after meeting the math
requirement) in order to complete the major in four years
Course Title Hours
Freshman
Fall
BIOL 101 
& BIOL 111General Biology I 
and General Biology I Lab4CHEM 160Chemical Structure and Properties3
CHEM 161 Chemical Structure and Properties
Laboratory1MATH 131 
or MATH 161Applied Calculus I 
or Calculus I3 Hours11
SpringBIOL 102 
& BIOL 112General Biology II 
and General Biology II Lab4
CHEM 180 Chemical Reactivity I 3CHEM 181Chemical Reactivity I Lab1MATH 132 
or MATH 162Applied Calculus II 
or Calculus II3 Hours11
Sophomore
Fall
BIOL 282 Genetics 3CHEM 240Chemical Reactivity II3PHYS 111 
& 111LCollege Physics I Lec / Dis 
and College Physics Laboratory I4 Hours10
Spring
BIOL 251 Cell Biology 3BIOL 283Genetics Laboratory1
CHEM 242 Chemical Synthesis Laboratory 2CHEM 260Quantitative Methods in Chemistry3PHYS 112 
& 112LCollege Physics II Lec/Disc 
and College Physics Lab II4 Hours13
Junior
Fall
CHEM 272 Analytical Chemistry Laboratory 2CHEM 305Physical Biochemistry for the Biological
Sciences3CHEM 370Biochemistry I3 Hours8
Spring
CHEM 306 Physical Biochemistry Lab 1CHEM 307Inorganic Chemistry3CHEM 371Biochemistry II3 Hours7
Senior
Fall
Biochemistry Focus Electives  Select one of the following:3
CHEM 365 Proteomics  CHEM 385Advanced Enzyme Kinetics and
Mechanisms 
CHEM 386 The Chemistry of Enzymes  CHEM 387Plant Biochemistry CHEM 388Biophysical Chemistry  Hours3
Spring
Biochemistry Electives  Select one of the following:3
CHEM 323 Medicinal Chemistry  

--- Page 294 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 325CHEM 365Proteomics 
CHEM 385 Advanced Enzyme Kinetics and
Mechanisms CHEM 386The Chemistry of Enzymes 
CHEM 387 Plant Biochemistry  CHEM 388Biophysical Chemistry 
CHEM 396 Special Topics in Biochemistry  BIOL 380Genetics and Evolution of Development 
BIOL 382 Molecular Genetics  BIOL 388Bioinformatics 
BIOL 389 Introduction to Pharmacology  BIOL 335Intro to Biostatistics  Hours3 Total Hours66
CHEM 300 Undergraduate Research  and CHEM 380 Chemistry Seminar
are strongly recommended and required to receive Departmental Honors
with graduation. Credit hours earned in CHEM 300 Undergraduate
Research  and/or CHEM 380 Chemistry Seminar  do not count as elective
hours satisfying the BIOC degree requirement. CHEM 361 Principles of
Biochemistry  does not count towards the BIOC-BA degree.
Mathematics Preparedness for Chemistry
Students intending to register for a chemistry course will need
a background in mathematics that is commensurate with the
computational requirements of the chemistry course. Evidence of
math preparedness is obtained from results of the ACT/SAT and of
a Mathematics Placement Assessment (MPA) administered by the
College in conjunction with the Department of Mathematics and
Statistics. Students who are found to be mathematically under prepared
are required to pass the appropriate course or sequence of courses
in mathematics with a grade of "C-" or better before they register for a
chemistry course. More information regarding placement by ACT/SAT
and the MPA can be found at  http://www.luc.edu/math/placement/ .
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
At the completion of the Undergraduate Major in Chemistry or
Biochemistry, students will be able to:
•answer knowledge and comprehension type questions related to
fundamental chemical concepts and demonstrate fluency withbasic facts, terminology, and principles in the various subﬁelds of
chemistry.
•understand and describe the chemical basis of life, our natural
resources and environments, and the universe.
•retrieve, research, synthesize, and critically evaluate scientiﬁc
literature.
•design and implement experiments that test predictive hypotheses,
gather relevant data, analyze results, and interpret the signiﬁcance of
these results.
•operate state of the art equipment used by chemists and
biochemists.
•engage in scientiﬁc reasoning with claims based on supported
evidence and communicate effectively results and interpretations of
scientiﬁc research.
Biochemistry (BS)
The Department of Chemistry & Biochemistry offers four undergraduate
major degree programs: BA in Chemistry, BA in Biochemistry, BS in
Chemistry, and the BS in Biochemistry.  These programs follow prescribed
professional guidelines and the CHEM-BS degree is approved by the
American Chemical Society. Loyola programs are unique because of the
close contact between students and faculty, due to smaller class sizes
in advanced classes. Chemistry & Biochemistry faculty members spend
signiﬁcant time assisting students both in and out of the class room.
Loyola's Bachelor of Science (BS) degree programs in Chemistry
or Biochemistry offer opportunities to excel in a fundamental area of
science. The prestige of these programs is based on the success of
students in developing their goals for work in industry, academia, and/
or diverse professional schools and in adopting the Loyola mission of
applying knowledge in the service of humanity.
The programs in Chemistry and Biochemistry lay ﬁrm foundations for
majors and give other students a cultural background in these ﬁelds.
The BS programs are intended primarily for those undergraduates who
have career goals in Chemistry or Biochemistry (i.e., an industrial or
academic chemistry career most probably following graduate training for
the MS and/or PhD degrees) but are also good preparation for careers in
medicine, law, pharmacy and other professions.
The BA programs are intended for those undergraduates who have career
goals in ﬁelds other than Chemistry or Biochemistry, but for which a
strong background is desirable (e.g., medicine, dentistry, technical sales,
patent law).  These programs are also intended to provide additional
schedule flexibility for students (e.g., study abroad, early graduation,
double majors).
Related Programs
Major
•Biochemistry (BA)  (p. 323)
•Chemistry (BA)  (p. 328)
•Chemistry (BS)  (p. 330)
Curriculum
LUC Chemistry is taking a modern, integrated approach to foundational
coursework.
•Aligns with the latest American Chemical Society (ACS) and American
Association of Medical Colleges (AAMC) standards & guidelines

--- Page 295 ---
326  Biochemistry (BS)
•Themes: structure-activity relationships; culture and practice
of science; energy; polymers, proteins, and macromolecules;
sustainability; chemical synthesis, puriﬁcation, characterization, and
analysis.
•With such knowledge and skills, you should be prepared to further
excel in upper-level coursework that specializes your work in the
speciﬁc major you have chosen.
In addition to the required courses listed below, CHEM 300  Undergraduate
Research  is strongly recommended. Credit hours earned
in CHEM 300  Undergraduate Research  or CHEM 380  Chemistry
Seminar  do not count as elective hours satisfying the
BS degree requirement. Both  CHEM 300  Undergraduate
Research  and  CHEM 380  Chemistry Seminar  are required for
Departmental honors. The CHEM-BS degree is accredited by the
American Chemical Society.
Code Title Hours
Chemistry Courses RequiredCHEM 160Chemical Structure and Properties3
CHEM 161 Chemical Structure and Properties Laboratory 1CHEM 180Chemical Reactivity I3
CHEM 181 Chemical Reactivity I Lab 1CHEM 240Chemical Reactivity II3
CHEM 242 Chemical Synthesis Laboratory 2CHEM 260Quantitative Methods in Chemistry3
CHEM 272 Analytical Chemistry Laboratory 2CHEM 305Physical Biochemistry for the Biological Sciences3
CHEM 306 Physical Biochemistry Lab 1CHEM 307Inorganic Chemistry3
CHEM 370 Biochemistry I 3CHEM 371Biochemistry II3
CHEM 372 Biochemistry Laboratory I 2CHEM 373Biochemistry Laboratory II2
Biochemistry Focus ElectiveSelect one of the following:3
CHEM 365 ProteomicsCHEM 385Advanced Enzyme Kinetics and MechanismsCHEM 386 The Chemistry of EnzymesCHEM 387Plant BiochemistryCHEM 388 Biophysical ChemistryBiochemistry ElectiveSelect one of the following: 3CHEM 323Medicinal ChemistryCHEM 365 ProteomicsCHEM 385Advanced Enzyme Kinetics and MechanismsCHEM 386 The Chemistry of EnzymesCHEM 387Plant BiochemistryCHEM 388 Biophysical ChemistryCHEM 396Special Topics in BiochemistryBIOL 380 Genetics and Evolution of DevelopmentBIOL 382Molecular GeneticsBIOL 388 BioinformaticsBIOL 389Introduction to PharmacologyPhysics Courses RequiredPHYS 111College Physics I Lec / Dis3
PHYS 112 College Physics II Lec/Disc 3PHYS 111LCollege Physics Laboratory I1
PHYS 112L College Physics Lab II 1Math Courses RequiredMATH 131 Applied Calculus I 3
or MATH 161 Calculus IMATH 132Applied Calculus II3or MATH 162Calculus II
STAT 203 Introduction to Probability & Statistics 3Biology Courses RequiredBIOL 101 General Biology I 3BIOL 102General Biology II3
BIOL 111 General Biology I Lab 1BIOL 112General Biology II Lab1
BIOL 251 Cell Biology 3BIOL 282Genetics3BIOL 283Genetics Laboratory1Total Hours73
•Core requirements  (p. 1405 )
•Please visit http://www.luc.edu/cas/
academics_degreerequirements.shtml#college  (https://www.luc.edu/
cas/academics_degreerequirements.shtml/#college ) to view other
CAS requirements.
•For chemistry course descriptions and pre and co-requisite
information, please visit  here  (p. 317).
All chemistry majors are assigned a chemistry faculty advisor. Please
meet with your advisor on a regular basis, at least twice a year, for
assistance with your chemistry schedule, research possibilities, graduate
school information and more. If you do not know who your advisor is
please call the chemistry department at 773/508-3100 or come to the
department ofﬁce located in Flanner Hall room 125.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Students not placing in MATH 118 Precalculus II  or higher cannot start
the Chemistry sequence until MATH 117 Precalculus I  is completed with
a grade of C- or better. Such students are advised to enroll in ﬁrst-year
Chemistry courses in the summer sessions (after meeting the math
requirement) in order to complete the major in four years.
Course Title Hours
Freshman
Fall
BIOL 101 
& BIOL 111General Biology I 
and General Biology I Lab4CHEM 160Chemical Structure and Properties3
CHEM 161 Chemical Structure and Properties
Laboratory1

--- Page 296 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 327MATH 131 
or MATH 161Applied Calculus I 
or Calculus I3-4 Hours11-12
SpringBIOL 102 
& BIOL 112General Biology II 
and General Biology II Lab4
CHEM 180 Chemical Reactivity I 3CHEM 181Chemical Reactivity I Lab1MATH 132 
or MATH 162Applied Calculus II 
or Calculus II3-4 Hours11-12
Sophomore
Fall
BIOL 282 Genetics 3CHEM 240Chemical Reactivity II3
PHYS 111 
& 111LCollege Physics I Lec / Dis 
and College Physics Laboratory I4STAT 203Introduction to Probability & Statistics3 Hours13
SpringBIOL 251Cell Biology3
BIOL 283 Genetics Laboratory 1CHEM 242Chemical Synthesis Laboratory2
CHEM 260 Quantitative Methods in Chemistry 3PHYS 112 
& 112LCollege Physics II Lec/Disc 
and College Physics Lab II4 Hours13
Junior
FallCHEM 272Analytical Chemistry Laboratory2
CHEM 305 Physical Biochemistry for the Biological
Sciences3CHEM 370Biochemistry I3 Hours8
SpringCHEM 306Physical Biochemistry Lab1
CHEM 307 Inorganic Chemistry 3CHEM 371Biochemistry II3 Hours7
Senior
FallCHEM 372Biochemistry Laboratory I2Biochemistry Elective  (p. 327)3 Hours5
Spring
CHEM 373 Biochemistry Laboratory II 2Biochemistry Elective  (p. 327)3 Hours5 Total Hours73-75
Two Biochemistry Electives Are Required
One course must be from among these Biochemistry Focus Electives:Code Title Hours
CHEM 365 Proteomics 3CHEM 385Advanced Enzyme Kinetics and Mechanisms3
CHEM 386 The Chemistry of Enzymes 3CHEM 387Plant Biochemistry3
CHEM 388 Biophysical Chemistry 3
and for the other you can choose from any of these Biochemistry
Electives:
Code Title Hours
CHEM 323 Medicinal Chemistry 3CHEM 365Proteomics3
CHEM 385 Advanced Enzyme Kinetics and Mechanisms 3CHEM 386The Chemistry of Enzymes3
CHEM 387 Plant Biochemistry 3CHEM 388Biophysical Chemistry3
CHEM 396 Special Topics in Biochemistry 1-3BIOL 380Genetics and Evolution of Development3
BIOL 382 Molecular Genetics 3BIOL 388Bioinformatics3
BIOL 389 Introduction to Pharmacology 3
CHEM 300 Undergraduate Research  and CHEM 380 Chemistry Seminar
are strongly recommended and required to receive Departmental Honors
with graduation. Credit hours earned in CHEM 300 Undergraduate
Research  and/or CHEM 380 Chemistry Seminar  do not count as elective
hours satisfying the BIOC degree requirement. CHEM 361 Principles of
Biochemistry  does not count towards the BIOC-BA degree.
Mathematics Preparedness for Chemistry
Students intending to register for a chemistry course will need
a background in mathematics that is commensurate with the
computational requirements of the chemistry course. Evidence of
math preparedness is obtained from results of the ACT/SAT and of
a Mathematics Placement Assessment (MPA) administered by the
College in conjunction with the Department of Mathematics and
Statistics. Students who are found to be mathematically under prepared
are required to pass the appropriate course or sequence of courses
in mathematics with a grade of "C-" or better before they register for a
chemistry course. More information regarding placement by ACT/SAT
and the MPA can be found at  http://www.luc.edu/math/placement/ .
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN

--- Page 297 ---
328  Chemistry (BA)
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
At the completion of the Undergraduate Major in Chemistry or
Biochemistry, students will be able to:
•answer knowledge and comprehension type questions related to
fundamental chemical concepts and demonstrate fluency with
basic facts, terminology, and principles in the various subﬁelds of
chemistry.
•understand and describe the chemical basis of life, our natural
resources and environments, and the universe.
•retrieve, research, synthesize, and critically evaluate scientiﬁc
literature.
•design and implement experiments that test predictive hypotheses,
gather relevant data, analyze results, and interpret the signiﬁcance of
these results.
•operate state of the art equipment used by chemists and
biochemists.
•engage in scientiﬁc reasoning with claims based on supported
evidence and communicate effectively results and interpretations of
scientiﬁc research.
Chemistry (BA)
The Department of Chemistry & Biochemistry offers four undergraduate
major degree programs: BA in Chemistry, BA in Biochemistry, BS in
Chemistry, and the BS in Biochemistry.  These programs follow prescribed
professional guidelines and the CHEM-BS degree is approved by the
American Chemical Society. Loyola programs are unique because of the
close contact between students and faculty, due to smaller class sizes
in advanced classes. Chemistry & Biochemistry faculty members spend
signiﬁcant time assisting students both in and out of the class room.
Loyola's Bachelor of Science (BS) degree programs in Chemistry
or Biochemistry offer opportunities to excel in a fundamental area of
science. The prestige of these programs is based on the success of
students in developing their goals for work in industry, academia, and/
or diverse professional schools and in adopting the Loyola mission of
applying knowledge in the service of humanity.
The programs in Chemistry and Biochemistry lay ﬁrm foundations for
majors and give other students a cultural background in these ﬁelds.
The BS programs are intended primarily for those undergraduates who
have career goals in Chemistry or Biochemistry (i.e., an industrial or
academic chemistry career most probably following graduate training for
the MS and/or PhD degrees) but are also good preparation for careers in
medicine, law, pharmacy and other professions.
The BA programs are intended for those undergraduates who have career
goals in ﬁelds other than Chemistry or Biochemistry, but for which a
strong background is desirable (e.g., medicine, dentistry, technical sales,
patent law).  These programs are also intended to provide additional
schedule flexibility for students (e.g., study abroad, early graduation,
double majors).Related Programs
Major
•Biochemistry (BA)  (p. 323)
•Biochemistry (BS)  (p. 325)
•Chemistry (BS)  (p. 330)
Curriculum
LUC Chemistry is taking a modern, integrated approach to foundational
coursework.
•Aligns with the latest American Chemical Society (ACS) and American
Association of Medical Colleges (AAMC) standards & guidelines
•Themes: structure-activity relationships; culture and practice
of science; energy; polymers, proteins, and macromolecules;
sustainability; chemical synthesis, puriﬁcation, characterization, and
analysis.
•With such knowledge and skills, you should be prepared to further
excel in upper-level coursework that specializes your work in the
speciﬁc major you have chosen.
In addition to the required courses listed below,  CHEM 300 Undergraduate
Research  is strongly recommended. Credit hours earned in  CHEM 300
Undergraduate Research  or CHEM 380 Chemistry Seminar  do not count
as elective hours satisfying the BS degree requirement. Both  CHEM 300
Undergraduate Research  and CHEM 380 Chemistry Seminar  are required
for Departmental honors.
Code Title Hours
Chemistry Courses RequiredCHEM 160Chemical Structure and Properties3
CHEM 161 Chemical Structure and Properties Laboratory 1CHEM 180Chemical Reactivity I3
CHEM 181 Chemical Reactivity I Lab 1CHEM 240Chemical Reactivity II3
CHEM 242 Chemical Synthesis Laboratory 2CHEM 260Quantitative Methods in Chemistry3
CHEM 272 Analytical Chemistry Laboratory 2CHEM 280Environmental & Chemical Analysis3
CHEM 301 Physical Chemistry I 3CHEM 302Physical Chemistry II3
CHEM 303 Physical Chemistry Lab I 2CHEM 314Instrumental Analysis4
CHEM 340 Advanced Inorganic Chemistry 3Physics Courses RequiredPHYS 121 College Physics I with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3PHYS 122College Physics II with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3
PHYS 111L College Physics Laboratory I 1PHYS 112LCollege Physics Lab II1
Math Courses RequiredMATH 161Calculus I4
MATH 162 Calculus II 4

--- Page 298 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 329STAT 203Introduction to Probability & Statistics3Total Hours55
•Core requirements  (p. 1405 )
•Please visit http://www.luc.edu/cas/
academics_degreerequirements.shtml#college  (https://www.luc.edu/
cas/academics_degreerequirements.shtml/#college ) to view other
CAS requirements.
•For chemistry course descriptions and pre and co-requisite
information, please visit  here  (p. 317).
All chemistry majors are assigned a chemistry faculty advisor. Please
meet with your advisor on a regular basis, at least twice a year, for
assistance with your chemistry schedule, research possibilities, graduate
school information and more. If you do not know who your advisor is
please call the chemistry department at 773/508-3100 or come to the
department ofﬁce located in Flanner Hall room 125.
Suggested Sequence of Chemistry, Math, and Physics
Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Students not placing in Math 118 or higher cannot start the Chemistry
sequence until MATH 117 Precalculus I  is completed with a grade of C- or
better. Such students are advised to enroll in ﬁrst-year Chemistry courses
in the summer sessions (after meeting the math requirement) in order to
complete the major in four years.
Course Title Hours
Freshman
Fall
CHEM 160 Chemical Structure and Properties 3CHEM 161Chemical Structure and Properties
Laboratory1MATH 161Calculus I4 Hours8
Spring
CHEM 180 Chemical Reactivity I 3CHEM 181Chemical Reactivity I Lab1MATH 162Calculus II4 Hours8
Sophomore
Fall
CHEM 240 Chemical Reactivity II 3CHEM 242Chemical Synthesis Laboratory2
PHYS 121 College Physics I with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3PHYS 111LCollege Physics Laboratory I1STAT 203Introduction to Probability & Statistics3 Hours12
Spring
CHEM 260 Quantitative Methods in Chemistry 3CHEM 272Analytical Chemistry Laboratory2PHYS 122 College Physics II with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3PHYS 112LCollege Physics Lab II1 Hours9
Junior
FallCHEM 280Environmental & Chemical Analysis3CHEM 301Physical Chemistry I3 Hours6
Spring
CHEM 302 Physical Chemistry II 3CHEM 303Physical Chemistry Lab I2CHEM 314Instrumental Analysis4 Hours9
Senior
Fall
CHEM 340 Advanced Inorganic Chemistry 3CHEM elective3 Hours6
SpringCHEM 341Advanced Inorganic Laboratory1CHEM elective3 Hours4 Total Hours62
CHEM 300 Undergraduate Research  and CHEM 380 Chemistry Seminar
are strongly recommended and required to receive Departmental Honors
with graduation. CHEM 361 Principles of Biochemistry  does not count
towards the CHEM-BA degree.
Mathematics Preparedness for Chemistry
Students intending to register for a chemistry course will need
a background in mathematics that is commensurate with the
computational requirements of the chemistry course. Evidence of
math preparedness is obtained from results of the ACT/SAT and of
a Mathematics Placement Assessment (MPA) administered by the
College in conjunction with the Department of Mathematics and
Statistics. Students who are found to be mathematically under prepared
are required to pass the appropriate course or sequence of courses
in mathematics with a grade of "C-" or better before they register for a
chemistry course. More information regarding placement by ACT/SAT
and the MPA can be found at  http://www.luc.edu/math/placement/ .
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are

--- Page 299 ---
330  Chemistry (BS)
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
At the completion of the Undergraduate Major in Chemistry or
Biochemistry, students will be able to:
•answer knowledge and comprehension type questions related to
fundamental chemical concepts and demonstrate fluency with
basic facts, terminology, and principles in the various subﬁelds of
chemistry.
•understand and describe the chemical basis of life, our natural
resources and environments, and the universe.
•retrieve, research, synthesize, and critically evaluate scientiﬁc
literature.
•design and implement experiments that test predictive hypotheses,
gather relevant data, analyze results, and interpret the signiﬁcance of
these results.
•operate state of the art equipment used by chemists and
biochemists.
•engage in scientiﬁc reasoning with claims based on supported
evidence and communicate effectively results and interpretations of
scientiﬁc research.
Chemistry (BS)
The Department of Chemistry & Biochemistry offers four undergraduate
major degree programs: BA in Chemistry, BA in Biochemistry, BS in
Chemistry, and the BS in Biochemistry.  These programs follow prescribed
professional guidelines and the CHEM-BS degree is approved by the
American Chemical Society. Loyola programs are unique because of the
close contact between students and faculty, due to smaller class sizes
in advanced classes. Chemistry & Biochemistry faculty members spend
signiﬁcant time assisting students both in and out of the class room.
Loyola's Bachelor of Science (BS) degree programs in Chemistry
or Biochemistry offer opportunities to excel in a fundamental area of
science. The prestige of these programs is based on the success of
students in developing their goals for work in industry, academia, and/
or diverse professional schools and in adopting the Loyola mission of
applying knowledge in the service of humanity.
The programs in Chemistry and Biochemistry lay ﬁrm foundations for
majors and give other students a cultural background in these ﬁelds.
The BS programs are intended primarily for those undergraduates who
have career goals in Chemistry or Biochemistry (i.e., an industrial or
academic chemistry career most probably following graduate training for
the MS and/or PhD degrees) but are also good preparation for careers in
medicine, law, pharmacy and other professions.
The BA programs are intended for those undergraduates who have career
goals in ﬁelds other than Chemistry or Biochemistry, but for which a
strong background is desirable (e.g., medicine, dentistry, technical sales,
patent law).  These programs are also intended to provide additional
schedule flexibility for students (e.g., study abroad, early graduation,
double majors).Related Programs
Major
•Biochemistry (BA)  (p. 323)
•Biochemistry (BS)  (p. 325)
•Chemistry (BA)  (p. 328)
Curriculum
LUC Chemistry is taking a modern, integrated approach to foundational
coursework.
•Aligns with the latest American Chemical Society (ACS) and American
Association of Medical Colleges (AAMC) standards & guidelines
•Themes: structure-activity relationships; culture and practice
of science; energy; polymers, proteins, and macromolecules;
sustainability; chemical synthesis, puriﬁcation, characterization, and
analysis.
•With such knowledge and skills, you should be prepared to further
excel in upper-level coursework that specializes your work in the
speciﬁc major you have chosen.
In addition to the required courses listed below, CHEM 300 Undergraduate
Research  is strongly recommended. Credit hours earned in  CHEM 300
Undergraduate Research  or CHEM 380 Chemistry Seminar  do not count
as elective hours satisfying the BS degree requirement. Both  CHEM 300
Undergraduate Research  and CHEM 380 Chemistry Seminar  are required
for Departmental honors. The CHEM-BS degree is accredited by the
American Chemical Society.
Code Title Hours
Chemistry Courses RequiredCHEM 160Chemical Structure and Properties3
CHEM 161 Chemical Structure and Properties Laboratory 1CHEM 180Chemical Reactivity I3
CHEM 181 Chemical Reactivity I Lab 1CHEM 240Chemical Reactivity II3
CHEM 242 Chemical Synthesis Laboratory 2CHEM 260Quantitative Methods in Chemistry3
CHEM 272 Analytical Chemistry Laboratory 2CHEM 280Environmental & Chemical Analysis3
CHEM 301 Physical Chemistry I 3CHEM 302Physical Chemistry II3
CHEM 303 Physical Chemistry Lab I 2CHEM 370Biochemistry I3
CHEM 314 Instrumental Analysis 4CHEM 340Advanced Inorganic Chemistry3
CHEM 341 Advanced Inorganic Laboratory 1Chemistry Elective3
Chemistry Elective 3Physics Courses RequiredPHYS 121 College Physics I with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3PHYS 122College Physics II with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3
PHYS 111L College Physics Laboratory I 1PHYS 112LCollege Physics Lab II1

--- Page 300 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 331
Math Courses RequiredMATH 161Calculus I4
MATH 162 Calculus II 4STAT 203Introduction to Probability & Statistics3Total Hours65
•Core requirements  (p. 1405 )
•Please visit http://www.luc.edu/cas/
academics_degreerequirements.shtml#college  (https://www.luc.edu/
cas/academics_degreerequirements.shtml/#college ) to view other
CAS requirements.
•For chemistry course descriptions and pre and co-requisite
information, please visit  here  (p. 317).
All chemistry majors are assigned a chemistry faculty advisor. Please
meet with your advisor on a regular basis, at least twice a year, for
assistance with your chemistry schedule, research possibilities, graduate
school information and more. If you do not know who your advisor is
please call the chemistry department at 773/508-3100 or come to the
department ofﬁce located in Flanner Hall room 125.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Students not placing in MATH 118 Precalculus II  or higher cannot start
the Chemistry sequence until MATH 117 Precalculus I  is completed with
a grade of C- or better. Such students are advised to enroll in ﬁrst-year
Chemistry courses in the summer sessions (after meeting the math
requirement) in order to complete the major in four years.
Course Title Hours
Freshman
Fall
CHEM 160 Chemical Structure and Properties 3CHEM 161Chemical Structure and Properties
Laboratory1MATH 161Calculus I4 Hours8
Spring
CHEM 180 Chemical Reactivity I 3CHEM 181Chemical Reactivity I Lab1MATH 162Calculus II4 Hours8
Sophomore
Fall
CHEM 240 Chemical Reactivity II 3CHEM 242Chemical Synthesis Laboratory2
PHYS 121 College Physics I with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3PHYS 111LCollege Physics Laboratory I1STAT 203Introduction to Probability & Statistics3 Hours12Spring
CHEM 260 Quantitative Methods in Chemistry 3CHEM 272Analytical Chemistry Laboratory2
PHYS 122 College Physics II with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3PHYS 112LCollege Physics Lab II1 Hours9
Junior
FallCHEM 280Environmental & Chemical Analysis3CHEM 301Physical Chemistry I3 Hours6
Spring
CHEM 302 Physical Chemistry II 3CHEM 303Physical Chemistry Lab I2CHEM 314Instrumental Analysis 14 Hours9
Senior
FallCHEM 340Advanced Inorganic Chemistry3 Hours3 Total Hours55
1Capstone Course: CHEM 314 Instrumental Analysis  for Junior or Senior
year
CHEM 300 Undergraduate Research  and CHEM 380 Chemistry Seminar
are strongly recommended and required to receive Departmental Honors
with graduation. Credit hours earned in CHEM 300 Undergraduate
Research  and/or CHEM 380 Chemistry Seminar  do not count as elective
hours satisfying the CHEM-BS degree requirement. CHEM 361 Principles
of Biochemistry  does not count towards the CHEM-BS degree.
Mathematics Preparedness for Chemistry
Students intending to register for a chemistry course will need
a background in mathematics that is commensurate with the
computational requirements of the chemistry course. Evidence of
math preparedness is obtained from results of the ACT/SAT and of
a Mathematics Placement Assessment (MPA) administered by the
College in conjunction with the Department of Mathematics and
Statistics. Students who are found to be mathematically under prepared
are required to pass the appropriate course or sequence of courses
in mathematics with a grade of "C-" or better before they register for a
chemistry course. More information regarding placement by ACT/SAT
and the MPA can be found at  http://www.luc.edu/math/placement/ .
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).

--- Page 301 ---
332  Chemistry Minor
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
At the completion of the Undergraduate Major in Chemistry or
Biochemistry, students will be able to:
•answer knowledge and comprehension type questions related to
fundamental chemical concepts and demonstrate fluency with
basic facts, terminology, and principles in the various subﬁelds of
chemistry.
•understand and describe the chemical basis of life, our natural
resources and environments, and the universe.
•retrieve, research, synthesize, and critically evaluate scientiﬁc
literature.
•design and implement experiments that test predictive hypotheses,
gather relevant data, analyze results, and interpret the signiﬁcance of
these results.
•operate state of the art equipment used by chemists and
biochemists.
•engage in scientiﬁc reasoning with claims based on supported
evidence and communicate effectively results and interpretations of
scientiﬁc research.
Chemistry Minor
Students majoring in areas other than chemistry and biochemistry
may satisfy requirements for a minor concentration in chemistry by
completing a minimum of 24 credit hours of chemistry with grades of “C-”
or better with an overall minor GPA of 2.0 or higher.
Related Programs
Minor
•Bioinformatics Minor  (p. 286)
•Biology Minor  (p. 302)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesCHEM 160Chemical Structure and Properties3
CHEM 161 Chemical Structure and Properties Laboratory 1CHEM 180Chemical Reactivity I3
CHEM 181 Chemical Reactivity I Lab 1CHEM 240Chemical Reactivity II3
CHEM 241 Chemical Reactivity II Laboratory 1CHEM 260Quantitative Methods in Chemistry3
CHEM 272 Analytical Chemistry Laboratory 2CHEM 280Environmental & Chemical Analysis3Select four additional credit hours at the 300 level4Total Hours24Suggested Sequence of Courses
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
CHEM 160 Chemical Structure and Properties 3CHEM 161Chemical Structure and Properties
Laboratory1 Hours4
SpringCHEM 180Chemical Reactivity I3CHEM 181Chemical Reactivity I Lab1 Hours4
Year 2
Fall
CHEM 240 Chemical Reactivity II 3CHEM 241Chemical Reactivity II Laboratory1 Hours4
SpringCHEM 260Quantitative Methods in Chemistry3CHEM 272Analytical Chemistry Laboratory2 Hours5
Year 3
Fall
CHEM 280 Environmental & Chemical Analysis 3CHEM 300-Level Elective1 Hours4
SpringCHEM 300-Level Elective3 Hours3 Total Hours24
Academic Policies
In conjunction with updated policies for majors and minors in the College
of Arts and Sciences, not less than 8 credit hours must be unique to
obtain a chemistry minor; that is, the courses in question are considered
as actually fulﬁlling requirements of one minor, not of more than one
minor and/or major. For Example: If your major CHEM 272 Analytical
Chemistry Laboratory , CHEM 280 Environmental & Chemical Analysis ,
and CHEM 361 Principles of Biochemistry , then to obtain a chemistry
minor, one must still take an additional 8 credits of CHEM classes that
are not required for your major (or other minors). This is effective with the
graduating class of May 2018 and following.
Note:  Only 1 credit hour of CHEM 300 Undergraduate Research  and only 1
credit hour of CHEM 380 Chemistry Seminar  will be accepted toward the
minor.
No more than 12 hours total can be transferred in for the minor from
other institutions.
Because of nearly complete overlap, the following degree combinations
are not allowed from the department of chemistry and biochemistry: BS
Chemistry Major with BS Biochemistry Major, BS Biochemistry Major with
BA Chemistry Major, BS Chemistry Major with BA Chemistry Major, and
no Chemistry Major may be paired with a Chemistry Minor. Other majors,
e.g. Forensic Science Majors or Biology Majors, that require substantial

--- Page 302 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 333
chemistry coursework, may still earn a minor as long as 8 additional,
unique credits are completed that are not also counted toward any other
major or minor requirements.
Please e-mail Dr. Sandra Helquist  (shelquist@luc.edu ) with any questions.
Learning Outcomes
At the completion of the Undergraduate Minor in Chemistry, students will
be able to:
•answer knowledge and comprehension type questions related to
fundamental chemical concepts and demonstrate fluency with
basic facts, terminology, and principles in the various subﬁelds of
chemistry.
•understand and describe the chemical basis of life, our natural
resources and environments, and the universe.
•retrieve, research, synthesize, and critically evaluate scientiﬁc
literature.
Classical Studies
The Department of Classical Studies offers majors, minors, and courses
in three areas: Classical Civilization  (p. 333) (CLCV major and minor,
CLST course-preﬁx), Ancient Greek  (p. 345) (GREK), and Latin  (p. 348)
(LATN). Greek and Latin courses above the 200-level can be the central
part of earning the Classics bachelor's degree distinction. Many
Latin, Greek, or Classical Studies courses can fulﬁll requirements in
interdisciplinary programs, like the Rome Studies or Medieval Studies
minors. The Department of Classical Studies is part of the College of Arts
and Sciences. Please consult their page for more information on degree
requirements and policies that affect your majors and minors (e.g., the
double dipping policy  (https://www.luc.edu/media/lucedu/cas/pdfs/
Double%20Dipping%20Policy.pdf )).
Undergraduate Programs
•Ancient Greek (BA)  (p. 345)
•Ancient Greek Minor  (p. 346)
•Classical Civilization (BA)  (p. 346)
•Classical Civilization Minor  (p. 347)
•Classics Degree-Distinction (-BAC/-BSC)  (p. 348)
•Latin (BA)  (p. 348)
•Latin Minor  (p. 349)
Classical Studies Department Policies
Academic Integrity
Policy of the Department of Classical Studies concerning Academic
Integrity
The policy of the Department of Classical Studies incorporates the
Academic Integrity Statement of the College of Arts and Sciences
(p. 55). (Follow the link to consult this statement directly.) Learning is
wholly personal: it only happens if you do it yourself.
Any practice of academic dishonesty (e.g., cheating, plagiarism,
obstructing the work of other students) perpetrated in a Classical Studies
course will result, at a minimum, in a grade of zero for every assignment
in which the dishonesty was practiced. Instructors may impose penalties
up to and including failure of the course. Hearing boards constituted
by the chairperson or the academic dean of the student's college maydetermine more serious penalties are also appropriate. Expulsion may
be recommended if the seriousness of the misconduct warrants it. All
instances of academic dishonesty must be reported by the instructor to
the chairperson of the department involved, to the Dean of the College
of Arts and Sciences, and to the academic dean of the college in which
the student is registered. In the case of multiple instances of academic
dishonesty, the academic dean of the student's college may convene
a hearing board. Students have the right to appeal the decision of the
hearing board to the academic dean of their college. The decision of the
dean is ﬁnal in all cases except expulsion. The sanction of expulsion
for academic dishonesty may be imposed only by the Provost upon
recommendation of a dean.
Students have a right to appeal any ﬁnding of academic dishonesty
against them. The procedure for such an appeal can be found in the
Undergraduate Academic Standards and Regulations  (p. 2283 ); the
Department of Classical Studies follows the procedures outlined there.
The College of Arts and Sciences maintains a permanent record of all
instances of academic dishonesty. The information in that record is
conﬁdential. A student may, however, be asked to sign a waiver which
releases that student’s record of dishonesty as a part of the student’s
application to a graduate or professional school, to a potential employer,
to a bar association, or to similar organizations.
Resources and Deﬁnitions
For basic principles and deﬁnitions of academic integrity, see the
subsection on "Academic Integrity" in Loyola University Chicago's General
Academic Standards and Regulations  (p. 2283 ). As the College of Arts
and Sciences states (see the link above; the next several paragraphs
following here reproduce the same document), a basic mission of a
university is to search for and to communicate the truth as it is honestly
perceived. A genuine learning community cannot exist unless this
demanding standard is a fundamental tenet of the intellectual life of the
community. Students of Loyola University Chicago are expected to know,
to respect, and to practice this standard of personal honesty.
Academic dishonesty can take several forms, including, but not limited
to, cheating, plagiarism, copying another student's work, and submitting
false documents.
Academic cheating is a serious act that violates academic integ rity.
Cheating includes, but is not limited to, such acts as
•Students may not obtain, distribute, or communicate examination
materials prior to the scheduled examination without the consent of
the instructor.
•Students may not take an examination by proxy.
•Students may not attempt to change answers after an examination or
an assignment has been submitted.
•Students may not falsify medical or other documents for any reason.
•Students may not use unauthorized study aids in an exam. Examples
include, but are not limited to:
1.Bringing notes into an exam that does not allow outside
materials.
2.Programming equations into a calculator when the instructor has
indicated that students are to be tested on the recall of those
same equations.
3.Using any electronic device that allows students to look up,
translate, calculate, or communicate information with someone
else.
•Students may not facilitate academic misconduct.

--- Page 303 ---
334  Classical Studies
1.For example, a student may not allow another student to copy
from their exam or give their own work to another student.
•Any other action that, by omission or commission, compromises the
integrity of the academic evaluation process
Plagiarism is a serious form of violation of the standards of academic
dishonesty. Plagiarism is the appropriation of ideas, language, work, or
intellectual property of another, either by intent or by negligence, without
sufﬁcient public acknowledgement and appropriate citation that the
material is not one's own. It is true that every thought probably has been
influenced to some degree by the thoughts and actions of others. Such
influences can be thought of as affecting the ways we see things and
express all thoughts. Plagiarism, however, involves the taking and use of
speciﬁc words and ideas of others without proper acknowledgement of
the sources, and includes the following
•Submit material copied from a published or unpublished source.
•Submit material that is not cited appropriately.
•Use another person's unpublished work or examination material.
•Allow or pay another party to prepare or write an assignment.
•Purchase, acquire, or use a pre-written assignment for credit.
•Use generative artiﬁcial intelligence to complete or write assignments
or exams, partially or fully, without prior permission of the instructor.
The above list is in no way intended to be exhaustive. Students should
be guided by the principle that it is of utmost importance to give
proper recognition to all sources. To do so is both an act of personal,
professional courtesy and of intellectual honesty. Any failure to do so,
whether by intent or by neglect, whether by omission or commission, is
an act of plagiarism.
In addition, a student may not submit the same paper or other work for
credit in two or more classes without the expressed prior permission of
all instructors. A student who submits the same work for credit in two or
more classes without the expressed prior permission of all instructors
will be judged guilty of academic dishonesty, and will be subject to
sanctions described below. This applies even if the student is enrolled
in the classes during different semesters. If a student plans to submit
work with similar or overlapping content for credit in two or more classes,
the student should consult with all instructors prior to submission of the
work to make certain that such submission will not violate this standard.
Many websites offer information and strategies by which you can keep
yourself clear from plagiarism. For example: Loyola University Writing
Center  (https://www.luc.edu/writing/index.shtml/ ), Princeton University
(https://odoc.princeton.edu/curriculum/academic-integrity/ ), and Purdue
University  (https://owl.purdue.edu/ ) (follow links at these sites for more
useful suggestions).
The Council of Writing Program Administrators  (https://
www.wpacouncil.org/aws/CWPA/pt/sp/home_page/ ) and
OnlineEDUCATION.com  (http://OnlineEDUCATION.com ) offer additional
comments and resources, including links, focused especially at
helping instructors head off impulses to plagiarism and other forms of
intellectual dishonesty in academic work.
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.Classical Civilization (CLST)
CLST 206   Art of Ancient Greece   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to the art of the ancient Greek world from
the Bronze Age through the Hellenistic period (to c. 50 B.C.E.), focusing
on major trends and developments in Classical Greek architecture,
sculpture, pottery and painting through close study of individual
examples.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Italian Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-CLST206/FNAR336   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to recognize and interpret selected examples of
ancient Greek art, including painting, sculpture, architecture, and other
types; they should be able to apply their art-critical and appreciation skills
to other types of art
CLST 207   Art of the Roman World   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to the art of the Roman world from
c. 3000 B.C.E. to c. the ﬁfth century CE. It focuses on major trends
and developments in Etruscan, Roman and later Greek art, including
architecture, painting, mosaic, and sculpture through close study of
individual examples.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Italian Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-CLST207/FNAR337/ROST307   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to recognize and be able to interpret selected
examples of ancient Roman art, including painting, mosaic, sculpture,
architecture, and other types; they will be able to apply their art-critical
and appreciation skills to other types of art
CLST 241   Religions of Ancient Greece   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the beliefs and practices in ancient Greek religion
by studying the written, artistic, and archaeological evidence for their
forms and functions and the environment in which they flourished.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Course equivalencies:  CLST241/CLST371   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of ancient G reek
religions
CLST 267   Medical and Scientiﬁc Terminology in Context   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course focuses on the ancient Greek and Latin roots of terminology
relating to the sciences, speciﬁcally, medical science. The development
and changes in the scientiﬁc paradigm are explored through readings in
translation of a variety of ancient Greek and Roman thinkers.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate knowledge and better
understanding of the language of modern science

--- Page 304 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 335
CLST 271   Classical Mythology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course focuses on Greek and Roman literature involving myth and
how ancient and modern peoples use traditional narratives, characters,
images and conceptions to explore, explain, and experiment with ideas
about themselves and their surroundings in their historical, social,
cultural and intellectual contexts.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Shakespeare Studies   
Course equivalencies:  CLST271/CLST271G   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate knowledge of the fundamental
myths of the ancient Greek and Roman world, their language and possible
meanings, and how myth reflected important collective and individual
concerns, values, beliefs, and practices then, even as modern myth does
now
CLST 271G   Classical Mythology - Women/Gender Focus   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course examines Greek and Roman literature involving myth and
how peoples use traditional narratives and characters to explain and
experiment with ideas about themselves and their surroundings in their
historical, social, cultural and intellectual contexts. CLST 271G focuses,
within this ﬁeld, on concerns of women's studies and gender studies.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Shakespeare Studies, Women &
Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  CLST271/CLST271G   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate knowledge of the fundamental
myths of the ancient Greek and Roman world, their language and possible
meanings, and how myth reflected important collective and individual
concerns, values, beliefs, and practices then, even as modern myth does
nowCLST 271R   Classical Mythology - Rome Focus   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course focuses on Greek and (especially) Roman literature involving
myth and how ancient and modern peoples use traditional narrati ves,
characters, images and conceptions to explore, explain, and experiment
with ideas about themselves and their surroundings in their historical,
social, cultural and intellectual contexts. Students should be able to
demonstrate knowledge of the fundamental myths of the ancient G reek
and Roman world, their language and possible meanings, and how myth
reflected important collective and individual concerns, values, beliefs, and
practices then, even as modern myth does now.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Course equivalencies:  CLST271/CLST271G   
Outcomes:
Students will gain factual knowledge of the essential characters and
basic narratives of the most important myths of ancient Greece and
Rome; Students will gain a broader understanding and appreciation
of intellectual and cultural activity through Classical myth as
simultaneously ﬁxed and mutable narrative, one which depends on
unchanging elements as it is refracted through different genres, authors,
and time periods; Students will gain basic knowledge of modern myth
theory as well as awareness of both its broad categorization and the
difﬁculty of a universal deﬁnition of myth; Students will be able to analyze
and evaluate critically particular versions of myths in their cultural
and historical context as well as in reference to other versions of the
same stories from different contexts; Students will be able to interpret
myths using modern myth theories and to recognize the use of myth as
consciousness-raising in religious contexts; Students will learn to apply
course material to improve thinking by contextualizing their own moral
sensibilities and aesthetic preferences by comparing the archetypes of
ancient myths with modern archetypes
CLST 272   Heroes & the Classical Epics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course centers upon the epics of the ancient Mediterranean world,
their nature and signiﬁcance, and, especially, the concepts of heroes and
heroism.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate knowledge of ancient epic as
a literary genre, what heroes are and why they are featured in epics,
and how epics began and evolved to reflect audiences and their social,
cultural, political and other concerns, values (such as leadership) beliefs
and practices

--- Page 305 ---
336  Classical Studies
CLST 273   Classical Tragedy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course introduces students to extant Greek tragic drama, especially
through the works of Aeschylus, Sophocles and Euripides.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Shakespeare Studies   
Course equivalencies:  CLST273/CLST273G   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate knowledge of plot, characters
and themes in Greek drama; understanding of the historical, social
and cultural conditions implicated with each work; comprehension of
concerns and values contained in them, such as justice, and how these
are mirrored in modern literature and drama
CLST 273G   Classical Tragedy - Women/Gender Focus   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course introduces students to extant Greek tragic drama, especially
through the works of Aeschylus, Sophocles and Euripides. CLST 273G
focuses, within this ﬁeld, on concerns of women's studies and gender
studies.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Shakespeare Studies, Women &
Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  CLST273/CLST273G   
CLST 274   World of Archaic Greece   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  HIST 101, HIST 102, HIST 103, HIST 104, or equivalent;
please check requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course investigates the history, literature, art, culture and society of
Archaic Greece (c. 750-480 B.C.E.), the precursor of Classical Greece and
western civilization.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Historical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate knowledge about the signiﬁcant
political, cultural and social accomplishments, events, institutions, trends,
questions, and concerns, and the major ﬁgures of the age
CLST 275   World of Classical Greece   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  HIST 101, HIST 102, HIST 103, HIST 104, or equivalent;
please check requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions   
The course investigates the history, literature, art, culture and society of
Classical Greece (c. 480 B.C.E. to c. 300 B.C.E.), the origin of so much that
has impacted western civilization; its primary focus is Athens in the ﬁfth
and fourth centuries B.C.E.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Historical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Shakespeare Studies   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate knowledge about the signiﬁcant
political, cultural and social accomplishments, events, institutions, trends,
questions, concerns, and the major ﬁgures of the ageCLST 276   World of Classical Rome   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  HIST 101, HIST 102, HIST 103, HIST 104, or equivalent;
please check requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course investigates the historical development of the Roman people
through study of their history, politics, society and culture especially in
the 1st centuries B.C.E. and C.E., the turning points of Republican and
Imperial Rome.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Historical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Italian Studies, Shakespeare
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  CLST276/ROST276   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate knowledge about the signiﬁcant
political, cultural and social accomplishments, events, institutions, trends,
questions, and concerns, and the major ﬁgures of the age
CLST 277   World of Late Antiquity   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  HIST 101, HIST 102, HIST 103, HIST 104, or equivalent;
please check requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course investigates the historical development of the Roman Empire
in the 3rd to 5th centuries C.E. when the Mediterranean basin and Europe
re-evaluated their classical past and decisively set their course toward
Medieval and later governmental, religious and cultural history.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Historical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Italian Studies   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate knowledge about the signiﬁcant
political, cultural and social accomplishments, events, institutions, trends,
questions, and concerns, and the major ﬁgures of the age
CLST 278   Experiencing Mesopotamia   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces daily life in Ancient Mesopotamia. Students will
become acquainted with the ways in which individuals experienced
family, government, sports, art, and societal interaction in the "cradle of
civilization. "
Interdisciplinary Option:  Islamic World Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the emergence of certain aspects of daily
life in the world's ﬁrst civilizations and be able to contextualize these
developments within the Mesopotamian political and social sphere
CLST 279   Classical Rhetoric   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course explores how ancient Greeks and Romans practiced
and interrogated the 'craft of speech' (rhetorike techne), speciﬁcally
persuasive speech, especially as it would be delivered in public settings.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Outcomes:
Students will learn to assess the relationship of Classical rhetorical
literature to the world that produced and used it

--- Page 306 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 337
CLST 280   Romance Novel in Ancient World   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course introduces students to the ancient masterworks of Greek and
Roman ﬁction in the form of the novel.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Shakespeare Studies   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to appreciate and explain the ancient romance
novel, including the components of structure, characterization, theme,
narrative technique, style, and meaning
CLST 281   War and War Experience, Ancient and Modern   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course focuses upon the institution of war and its effects upon
individuals, especially in ancient Greece and modern times.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to understand better and demonstrate
knowledge of the many levels of active and passive war experience,
including participant/observer, combatant/non-combatant, and various
groups in and out of war, ancient and modern
CLST 283   Classical Comedy & Satire   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
In this course, students engage with great literary works of the ancient
world that combine social criticism with humor.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Shakespeare Studies   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate knowledge of such authors
as Aristophanes, Menander, Terence, and Petronius, and their works,
including the components of plot, characters and themes in the main
works of ancient comedy and satire; as well as understanding of the
historical, social and cultural conditions implicated with each work
CLST 288   Greek Literature in Translation   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students study a selected range of masterworks in ancient Greek
literature. (This is a special topics course.)
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate deeper knowledge and
understanding of selected Greek literature and its possible interpretations
CLST 289   Latin Literature in Translation   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students study a selected range of masterworks in Latin literature. (This
is a special topics course.)
Course equivalencies:  X-CLST289/ROST289   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate deeper knowledge and
understanding of selected Latin literature and its possible interpretations
CLST 295   Women in the Classical World   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course investigates the social roles available to women in the
ancient Greek and Roman worlds, together with beliefs, behaviors, and
cultural expressions supporting ancient Greek and Roman constructions
of womanhood.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Italian Studies, Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-CLST295/WOST295/WSGS295   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to identify and discuss distinctive Classical
patterns of thought and behavior regarding women and genderCLST 304   History of Ancient Philosophy   (3 Credit Hours)   
See PHIL 304: The History of Ancient Philosophy
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PHIL304/CLST304   
CLST 305   Ancient Political Thought   (3 Credit Hours)   
See Ancient Political Thought. (PLSC 304)
CLST 306   Science in Ancient Greece and Rome   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will focus on the origins of scientiﬁc thought and the
scientiﬁc method in the Classical world and broader Mediterranean. We
will survey the attitudes of Greeks and Romans towards physics, biology,
evolution, medicine, and animal behavior, and ask why science emerged
in Greece and Rome in the ﬁrst place.
Outcomes:
Students will learn about the history of ideas of nature, physics, biology,
medicine, and animal behavior in Ancient Greece, Rome, and the broader
Mediterranean
CLST 308   History of Rome to Constantine   (3 Credit Hours)   
See HIST 308A: Roman History to Constantine
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-CLST308/HIST308/ROST308   
CLST 309   Greece to Alexander the Great   (3 Credit Hours)   
See HIST 307: Greece to Alexander the Great
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-CLST309/HIST307   
CLST 315   Alexander & Hellenistic World   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course centers on the history, literature, art, culture and society of
the Hellenistic world from 336 to c. 31 B.C.E. and assays the impact of
Alexander the Great particularly in the eastern Mediterranean, the site of
the kingdoms established by the successors of Alexander; a particular
focus is Egypt and its capital, Alexandria.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate knowledge about the signiﬁcant
political, cultural and social events, institutions, questions, and concerns,
and the major ﬁgures of the age
CLST 316   Western Patristic Thought   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course centers on ﬁrst-hand study of the leading voices of early
Christianity in the western portion of the Roman Empire, from the ﬁrst
century C.E. to Augustine.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-CLST316/THEO316   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate detailed knowledge about the
western Church fathers, their works, and the impact of these upon the
Church and its teachings
CLST 318   Transformations of Rome in Late Antiquity   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the City of Rome itself from the third century up
to the reign of Charlemagne. It demonstrates that this period was a time
of gradual transformation and continuity. Both literary sources and the
archaeology and epigraphy of the City shall be combined to show that
barbarian invasions did not destroy the walls of Rome, and that the arrival
of Christianity did not cause the fall of classical culture.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, German Studies   
Course equivalencies:  HIST 339/CLST 318   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the working
of historical mechanisms, evaluate and critically analyze this historical
period

--- Page 307 ---
338  Classical Studies
CLST 324   Shipwreck Archaeology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students study how the technology of scuba diving combined with
scientiﬁc archaeology has created a new discipline of shipwreck
archaeology since the 1960s. They follow the history of the discipline
and explore shipwrecks from Bronze Age Greece to nineteenth-century
Chicago.
Course equivalencies:  XHIST324MSTU330ANTH347CLST324   
Outcomes:
Students understand the importance of vessels conserved at Skuldelev,
Lake Nemi and Uluburun for tracing the development of commerce and
technology among the Vikings, the Romans, and the Syro-Palestinians
of the Levant; They synthesize the research and conclusions of nautical
archaeologists worldwide and organize those ﬁndings for presentation
to a broader public in the coherent and imaginative form of their own
Museum
CLST 328   Pompeii and Herculaneum   (3 Credit Hours)   
The two best known Roman towns - Pompeii and Herculaneum - whose
remains were preserved by the eruption of Mt. Vesuvius in 79 CE - will
serve as a microcosm for understanding Roman society.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Course equivalencies:  HIST328/CLST328/ANTH328   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of how recent archaeological
discoveries have changed our view of Pompeii and Herculaneum and
learn to "read" such things as dining and bathing rituals, gladiator games,
and public and private architecture to gain insight into the structures of
Roman social and cultural life
CLST 334   Intro to Classical Archeology   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the main explorations and achievements in the
recovery of monuments of the ancient Greco-Roman world and on the
methodologies involved with the recoveries.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH334/CLST334   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to recognize and interpret selected sites
and monuments of the Greco-Roman world; They should be able to
demonstrate knowledge of methodologies and the technical vocabulary
of classical archaeology
CLST 334R   Introduction to Classical Archaeology - Rome/Italy Focus   (3
Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the main explorations and achievements in the
recovery of monuments of the ancient Greco-Roman world, particularly in
Rome and Italy, and on the methodologies involved with the recoveries.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Italian Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH334/CLST334   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to recognize and interpret selected sites
and monuments of the Greco-Roman world; They should be able to
demonstrate knowledge of methodologies and the technical vocabulary
of classical archaeology
CLST 340   Classical Arch-Greek Temples   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course centers on the art and architecture of selected ancient Greek
temples and upon the methodologies involved with their study and
understanding.
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH340/CLST340   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to recognize and interpret selected Greek
temples and demonstrate knowledge of the methodologies and technical
vocabulary associated with themCLST 342   Geography of The Ancient World   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the history of, ideas relating to, and expressions
about the geography of the ancient Greco-Roman world as a background
for the study of the ancient Mediterranean world.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate knowledge of the signiﬁcant
authors, texts, and concepts relating to ancient Mediterranean
geography; They should be able to demonstrate good comprehension of
technical terms associated with that geography
CLST 344   Ancient Greek and Roman Coins   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course centers on the numismatics of the ancient Mediterranean
world and upon coins as sources for the history, art, epigraphy and
mythology of ancient Greece and Rome.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to recognize, assess and interpret various
types of Greek and Roman coins; They should be able to demonstrate
good comprehension of technical terms associated with ancient
Mediterranean numismatics
CLST 348   Introduction to Museum Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
In collecting, preserving, interpreting, and presenting items of material
cultures, as the 20th century recognized and reconsidered, museums
function as mass-media, social "tracers" as well as "objects-subjects"
for economic and political elaboration. This course introduces students
to relevant concerns of objects, conceptualization and communication,
scholarship, cultural property, and identity.
Outcomes:
Students will gain understanding of how museums conserve cultural
artefacts, serve academic research, educate specialist and non-specialist
audiences, and focus social energy in local and touristic communities
CLST 361   Roman Political Theory & Practice   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course investigates the history, scope, principles and components
of ancient Roman political institutions from earliest times to that of
Justinian., as well as the legal appurtenances of those constituents.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Sociolegal Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-CLST361/ROST361   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to explain constituents of Roman civil and
legislative procedure, including assemblies, magistracies, courts, etc
CLST 362   Roman Law   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course investigates the history, scope, principles, and components
of Roman civil and private law from the archaic period to Justinian's
codiﬁcation.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Sociolegal Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-CLST362/PLSC371/ROST362   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to explain Roman legal and civil procedure,
including the legal concepts of property, the person, family law, and legal
obligations and issues, including contracts, civil wrongs, etc
CLST 363   Law & Legislature-Ancient Greece   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course investigates the history, scope, principles and components
of ancient Greek law and legislation from Homeric times through the
Classical Period., especially in Classical Athens.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Sociolegal Studies   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to explain Greek legal, civil and legislative
procedure, including concepts of justice and due process, as well as legal
issues such as inheritance, homicide, etc

--- Page 308 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 339
CLST 373   Daily Life in Ancient Greece   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course constitutes an investigation of the lives of individuals amidst
the societies of ancient Greece, including, among other topics, their
involvement in religion, politics, education, and their gender-relations.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate knowledge of what it was  like
to be alive and active in ancient Greece, what important issues and
concerns affected the ancient Greeks and how these are to be compared
and contrasted with their own life issues and concerns
CLST 374   Private Life of Ancient Romans   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course constitutes an investigation of the lives of individuals amidst
the society of ancient Rome (and the Roman Empire), including, among
other things, their involvements in religion, politics, education, and their
gender-relations.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-CLST374/ROST374   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate knowledge of what it was  like to
be alive and active in ancient Rome, what important issues and concerns
affected the ancient Romans (and subjects of Rome) individually, and
how these are to be compared and contrasted with their own life issues
and concerns
CLST 375   Archaeology of Early Greece   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course surveys archaeological research in Greece covering the
Paleolithic Age through the early Iron Age (c. 700 B.C.E.).
Course equivalencies:  X-CLST375/ANTH375   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate knowledge of the main
archaeological sites and their contents and the importance of
archaeological material for reconstructing knowledge about the
period; students should also be able to demonstrate knowledge of
archaeological methodology and how evidence is gathered, classiﬁed and
interpreted
CLST 376   Homeric Questions   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CLST 272 is recommended   
An advanced course in the Iliad and/or Odyssey enriched by study of
Homeric scholarship from the time of Wolf's Prolegomena (1795) to the
present day. Concentrations can include such key issues as "the Homeric
question, " the Parry-Lord theory, narratology, rhetorical criticism, and the
psychiatric interpretations of Dr. Jonathan.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to place the Homeric poems into their historical and
literary context
CLST 378   Sport in Ancient Greece & Rome   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the practices of and attitudes toward athletics of
the ancient Greeks and Romans.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-CLST378/PHED202   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate knowledge about the
educational, philosophical, and political signiﬁcance of athlet ics from
Homeric times through the Roman Empire; They should be able to assess
and interpret written, artistic and archaeological evidence relating to
ancient athleticsCLST 380   Research in Classical Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students complete a semester-long research project on a topic in
Classical Studies.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will improve research methods and produce a research paper
that engages with both primary sources and secondary scholarship
CLST 381   Directed Study   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
This course is centered on extensive and in-depth study of a selected
author or topic involving ancient Greece or Rome. (This is a special study
course, carried on by students usually under the direction of a faculty
member of the department.)
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate deeper understanding of the
selected author or topic
CLST 382   Internship in Classical Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students complete a semester-long internship (100 hours minimum) that
builds on their training in Classical Studies.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will gain practical experience while applying theories and
techniques gained from coursework
CLST 383   The Humanism of Antiquity I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course centers on extensive readings of pertinent classical authors
from Homer to Plato, tracing the evolution of aspects of human belief.
(This is a capstone course for majors in Classical Studies.)
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate deeper understanding of the
nature of the human individual and the relationship of the human person
both to the material and spiritual world; They should be able to assess
and interpret ancient Greek texts concerned with these issues and topics
CLST 384   The Humanism of Antiquity II   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course centers on extensive readings of pertinent classical authors
from early Rome to the High Empire, tracing the evolution of aspects of
human belief. (This is a capstone course for majors in Classical Studies.)
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate deeper understanding of the
nature of the human individual and the relationship of the human person
both to the material and spiritual world; They should be able to assess
and interpret ancient Latin texts concerned with these issues and topics
CLST 385   Historical Classic Greek Literature to 200 A.D   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This courses surveys important authors and works of Greek literature in a
chronological and topical fashion from Homer to the Hellenistic period.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate detailed knowledge of authors
and works; they should be able to assess and interpret texts covered
CLST 386   History of Classical Roman Lit   (3 Credit Hours)   
This courses surveys important authors and works of Roman (i.e., Latin)
literature in a chronological and topical fashion from the 2nd cent. B.C.E.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-CLST386/ROST386   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate detailed knowledge of authors
and works; they should be able to assess and interpret the texts covered

--- Page 309 ---
340  Classical Studies
CLST 388   Classical Backgrounds I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores various environments of Greek literature, art,
religion, etc., or other aspects of Greek civilization. (This is a special
topics course.)
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate deeper understanding of the
nature of these environments or aspects
CLST 389   Classical Backgrounds II   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores various environments of Latin literature, Roman art,
religion, etc., or other aspects of Roman civilization. (This is a special
topics course.)
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate deeper understanding of the
nature of these environments or aspects
CLST 390   Fieldwork Greek Sites/Museums   (1-4 Credit Hours)   
This course comprises a study Greek or Roman art, monuments,
topography or other cultural or historical artifacts or areas of interest on
site. This study is accomplished through illustrated lectures or (when on-
site) on-site lectures. (This is a special topics course.)
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate detailed knowledge of the
material remains of ancient Mediterranean civilizations and the cultures
within them
CLST 391   Topics in Comp Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course centers on a comparison of ancient Greek or Roman
literature with literatures of other times and other cultures. (This is a
special topics course.)
Course equivalencies:  X-LITR391/CLST391/ENGL391   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate detailed knowledge of the
authors and works chosen for it
CLST 392   Theories of Myth   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course surveys important theoretical models used to interpret the
mythology of Classical Greece and Rome and other cultures.
Course equivalencies:  X-CLST392/LITR392   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate a sophisticated understanding
of different interpretive theories applicable to mythology, their
advantages and limitations; They should be able to apply these theories
and to demonstrate what learning may be derived from them
CLST 395   Topography of Rome   (3 Credit Hours)   
The subject of this course is the topography and monuments of ancient
Rome, from the city's beginnings through the Republican and Imperial
periods to the time of Constantine. This study is accomplished through
illustrated lectures or (when taught in Rome) on-site lectures.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Course equivalencies:  CLST395/ROST395   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate detailed knowledge of the
history of the buildings and monuments of ancient RomeGreek (GREK)
GREK 101   Ancient Greek I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces students to elementary grammatical forms, basic
syntax, and vocabulary of ancient Greek, and simple readings in the
language.
Course equivalencies:  GREK131/GREK101   
Outcomes:
students should be able to demonstrate basic knowledge of ancient
Greek vocabulary, syntax and grammar and deploy it to be able to
translate accurately simple Greek sentences and passages into English
GREK 102   Ancient Greek II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  GREK 101   
This course continues the study of the fundamentals of the ancient
Greek language, including more vocabulary, grammar, syntax and more
advanced readings. (Ancient Greek I or its equivalent is a prerequisite for
this course.)
Course equivalencies:  GREK132/GREK102   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate more advanced knowledge of
ancient Greek vocabulary, syntax and grammar, and deploy it to be able to
translate accurately more advanced Greek sentences and passages into
English
GREK 236   Xenophon   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  GREK 102   
This course centers on translation of representative selections from the
prose works of Xenophon, with special emphasis on review of ancient
Greek grammar as it is encountered in the selected texts.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the selected prose passages in
ancient Greek with accuracy, as well as demonstrate understanding of the
content of the passages
GREK 262   Introduction to Plato   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  GREK 102   
This course centers on translation of representative selections from
works of the philosopher Plato, with special emphasis on review of
ancient Greek grammar as it is encountered in the selected texts.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate accurately the selected passages
from Plato, as well as demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the
content of the passages
GREK 267   Intro to New Testament Greek   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  GREK 102   
This course centers on translation of selections from the New Testament,
with special emphasis on review of ancient Greek grammar as it is
encountered in the selected texts.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-GREK267/THEO307   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate accurately the selected passages, as
well as demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the content

--- Page 310 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 341
GREK 271   Intermediate Greek   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  GREK 101; GREK 102 or equivalent This intermediate-level
course centers on translation of prose and poetry of Greek authors, with
special emphasis on review of Greek grammar as it is encountered in the
selected texts   
No course description is available
Outcomes:
To review and master basic Greek grammar, vocabulary, and syntax; To
read and understand selections of Greek prose and poetry in the original
language; To prepare for further study in ancient Greek literature (in the
original), history, and culture
GREK 275   Introduction to Greek Oratory   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  GREK 102   
This course centers on translation of selections from Attic and other
ancient Greek orators, with special emphasis on review of ancient Greek
grammar as it is encountered in the selected texts.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate accurately the selected passages,
analyze and appreciate their style and content, and demonstrate
knowledge and understanding of their contexts and meanings, as well as
rhetorical ﬁgure and constructs in them
GREK 281   Intro to Greek Historiography   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  GREK 102   
This course centers on translation of representative selections from
the historical works of ancient Greek authors, with special emphasis on
review of ancient Greek grammar as it is encountered in the selected
texts.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate accurately ancient Greek historical
prose passages, analyze and appreciate their style and contents, and
demonstrate knowledge and understanding of their various contexts and
meanings
GREK 285   Introduction to Greek Poetry   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  GREK 102   
This course centers on translation of representative selections from the
poetic works of ancient Greek authors, with special emphases on review
of Greek grammar as it is encountered in the selected texts and the basic
style and structure of Greek poetry.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate accurately the selected passages in
Greek poetry, comprehend, analyze and appreciate various poetic genres,
as well as demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the content and
artistry of the selected poetry
GREK 286   Introduction to Greek Drama   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  GREK 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
This course centers on translation of representative selections from
the dramatic works of ancient Greek authors, with special emphases on
review of Greek grammar as it is encountered in the selected texts and
the basic style and structure of Greek drama.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate accurately the selected passages in
Greek drama, comprehend, analyze and appreciate the genre, as well as
demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the content and artistry of
the selected textsGREK 287   Introduction to Christian Greek   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  GREK 102   
This course focuses on the translation of selected passages from
Christian Greek writers, such as Origen, Basil, and Gregory, with special
emphasis on review of grammar as it is encountered in the selected texts.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate accurately the selected readings,
analyze and appreciate their style and content, and demonstrate
knowledge and understanding of their contexts and meanings
GREK 289   Readings in Ancient Greek Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  GREK 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
Students study a selected range of texts in ancient Greek literature. (This
is a special topics course in ancient Greek.)
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate deeper knowledge and
understanding of ancient Greek literature, its style, and its possible
interpretations
GREK 303   Greek Composition   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Two other GREK author courses   
This course involves practical exercises to develop correct and fluent
expression in written ancient Greek prose.
Outcomes:
students should be able to write ancient Greek in various styles,
demonstrating facility in deploying fluent knowledge of vocabulary,
syntax and grammar in the writing of ancient Greek prose
GREK 315   The Greek Fathers   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the writings of the early church fathers, including
such as Athanasius, Basil and John (Chrysostom); it also comprises an
introduction to the historical background of Eastern patristic thought.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate these works with proﬁciency,
demonstrate knowledge in detail of the writings, their authors and their
times, and appreciate more deeply the issues and concerns located in
these writings
GREK 325   Demosthenes   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the works of the Attic orator Demosthenes, amid
the political and historical context of later Classical Athens.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate these works with proﬁciency,
demonstrate knowledge in detail of the genre, the author and his times,
and understand and appreciate the ideas, issues and concerns expressed
in the orations
GREK 331   Herodotus   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the Histories of Herodotus, the events about
which he writes, and the various contexts in which his work was
produced.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the Histories with proﬁciency, as
well as demonstrate knowledge in detail of the work, its author, and its
historical and political contexts and signiﬁcances
GREK 335   Thucydides   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the History of the Peloponnesian War of
Thucydides, the events about which he writes, and the various contexts in
which his work was produced.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the History with proﬁciency, as
well as demonstrate knowledge in detail of the work, its author, and its
historical and political contexts and signiﬁcances

--- Page 311 ---
342  Classical Studies
GREK 341   The Iliad   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course centers on Homer's Iliad and the genre of ancient Greek epic
poetry, in particular, on the characters of the heroes and their place within
the context of Greek society and thought.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the Iliad with proﬁciency, and
demonstrate detailed knowledge of the author, the poem, its contents and
meanings, as well as deeper understanding and appreciation of various
contexts of the poem, its transmission, and the accomplishment of its
composition
GREK 342   The Odyssey   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on Homer's Odyssey and the genre of ancient Greek
epic poetry, in particular, on the character of Odysseus and his place
within the context of Greek society and thought.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the Odyssey with proﬁciency, and
demonstrate detailed knowledge of the author, the poem, and its contents
and meanings, as well as deeper understanding and appreciation of
various contexts of the poem, its transmission, and the accomplishment
of its composition
GREK 343   Greek Lyric Poetry   (3 Credit Hours)   
The subject of this course is ancient Greek lyric poetry involving
selections from such as Archilochus, Sappho, Alcaeus, and Anacreon.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the selected works with proﬁciency,
demonstrate knowledge in detail about the authors, their poetry, and the
various poetic styles they employed, as well as deeper understanding
and appreciation of the historical, social and intellectual contexts and
influences pertaining to them
GREK 351   Aristophanes   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the comedic poetry of Aristophanes, set against
the backdrop of Athens in the late ﬁfth century B.C.E.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Shakespeare Studies   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the selections of Aristophanes with
proﬁciency, and demonstrate knowledge in detail about the author and
his comedies, as well as deeper understanding and appreciation of the
historical, social and intellectual contexts and influences pertaining to
them
GREK 353   Aeschylus   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on selected tragedies of Aeschylus, set against the
backdrop of Athens in the earlier ﬁfth century B.C.E.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Shakespeare Studies   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the selections from Aeschylus with
proﬁciency, and demonstrate knowledge in detail about the author and
his tragedies, as well as deeper understanding and appreciation of the
historical, social and intellectual contexts and influences pertaining to
them
GREK 354   Sophocles   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on selected tragedies of Sophocles, set against the
backdrop of Athens in the ﬁfth century B.C.E.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Shakespeare Studies   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the selections from Sophocles with
proﬁciency, and demonstrate knowledge in detail about the author and
his tragedies, as well as deeper understanding and appreciation of the
historical, social and intellectual contexts and influences pertaining to
themGREK 355   Euripides   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on selected tragedies of Euripides, set against the
backdrop of Athens in the later ﬁfth century B.C.E.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Shakespeare Studies   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the selections from Euripides with
proﬁciency, and demonstrate knowledge in detail about the author and
his tragedies, as well as deeper understanding and appreciation of the
historical, social and intellectual contexts and influences pertaining to
them
GREK 360   Theocritus   (3 Credit Hours)   
This courses centers on the poetry of Theocritus of Syracuse, set against
the background of Hellenistic Alexandria.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the selections from Theocritus with
proﬁciency, and demonstrate knowledge in detail about the author, his
poetry, and the styles he employed, as well as deeper understanding
and appreciation of the historical, social and intellectual contexts and
influences pertaining to them
GREK 362   Plato Republic   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course centers on translation, evaluation and interpretation of
selections from Plato's Republic.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the selections with proﬁciency, and
demonstrate knowledge in detail about the author and his work, as well
as deeper understanding and appreciation of the work's meaning and the
historical, social and intellectual contexts and influences pertaining to it
GREK 388   Readings in Greek Literature I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students study a selected range of masterworks in Greek literature. (This
is a special topics course in ancient Greek.)
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the selected works with proﬁciency
and demonstrate deeper knowledge and understanding of them, their
styles and possible interpretations
GREK 389   Readings in Greek Literature II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students study a selected range of masterworks in Greek literature. (This
is a special topics course in ancient Greek.)
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the selected works with proﬁciency
and demonstrate deeper knowledge and understanding of them, their
styles and possible interpretations
Latin (LATN)
LATN 101   Latin I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces students to elementary grammatical forms, basic
syntax, and vocabulary of Latin, and simple readings in the language.
Course equivalencies:  LATN131/LATN101   
Outcomes:
students should be able to demonstrate basic knowledge of Latin
vocabulary, syntax and grammar and deploy it to be able to translate
accurately simple Latin sentences and passages into English

--- Page 312 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 343
LATN 102   Latin II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101   
This course continues the study of the fundamentals of the Latin
language, including more vocabulary, grammar, syntax and more
advanced readings. (Latin I or its equivalent is a prerequisite for this
course.)
Course equivalencies:  LATN132/LATN102   
Outcomes:
students should be able to demonstrate advanced knowledge of basic
Latin vocabulary, syntax and grammar and deploy it to be able to
translate accurately more advanced Latin sentences and passages into
English
LATN 271   Introduction to Reading Latin   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101, 102 (grade of 'B' or higher) or their equivalents
(AP Latin credit; CAS Latin competency exam)   
This intermediate-level course centers on translation of prose and poetry
of Roman authors, with special emphasis on review of Latin grammar as
it is encountered in the selected texts.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to translate selected passages of Latin p rose and
poetry with accuracy, analyze and appreciate Roman literature, and
demonstrate understanding of the content of the passages
LATN 281   Intro to Roman Historians   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
This course centers on translation of representative selections from the
historical works of Republican, Augustan and other Latin authors.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate accurately Latin historical
prose passages, analyze and appreciate their style and contents, and
demonstrate knowledge and understanding of their various contexts and
meanings
LATN 283   The Age of Caesar   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
This course focuses on the literature and society of Rome at the time of
Julius Caesar, in particular translation of selected readings from such
authors as Lucretius, Catullus, Sallust, Caesar and Cicero.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Shakespeare Studies   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate accurately the selected readings,
analyze and appreciate their style and content, and demonstrate
knowledge and understanding of their contexts and meanings
LATN 284   The Age of Augustus   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
This course focuses on the literature and society of Rome at the time of
Augustus. Selected readings are from such authors as Vergil, Horace,
Livy, Ovid, Tibullus and Propertius.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate accurately the selected readings,
analyze and appreciate their style and content, and demonstrate
knowledge and understanding of their contexts and meanings
LATN 286   The Age of Nero   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
This course focuses on the literature and society of Rome at the time
of Nero. Selected readings are from such authors as Tacitus, Petronius,
Seneca, and Lucan.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate accurately the selected readings,
analyze and appreciate their style and content, and demonstrate
knowledge and understanding of their contexts and meaningsLATN 287   Age of Flavians   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
This course focuses on the literature and society of Rome at the time of
the emperors Vespasian, Titus and Domitian. Selected readings are from
such authors as Tacitus, Suetonius, Martial and Juvenal.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate accurately the selected readings,
analyze and appreciate their style and content, and demonstrate
knowledge and understanding of their contexts and meanings
LATN 289   Readings in Latin Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
Students study a selected range of masterworks in Latin literature. (This
is a special topics course in Latin.)
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate deeper knowledge and
understanding of selected Latin literature, its style and its possible
interpretations
LATN 303   Latin Composition   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
This course involves practical exercises to develop correct and fluent
expression in written Latin prose.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to write Latin in various styles, demonstrating
facility in deploying fluent knowledge of vocabulary, syntax and grammar
in the writing of Latin prose
LATN 314   Cicero's Letters   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
This course examines the correspondence of Cicero, as well as the
political, social, and intellectual context of Classical Rome.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate these works with proﬁciency,
to demonstrate knowledge in detail of the genre of formal Latin
correspondence, the author and his times, and to understand and
appreciate the ideas, issues and concerns expressed in the letters
LATN 315   The Latin Fathers   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
This course examines the writings of the early church fathers, including
such as Ambrose, Jerome and Augustine; it also comprises an
introduction to the historical background of Western patristic thought.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate these works with proﬁciency,
demonstrate knowledge in detail of the writings, their authors and their
times, and appreciate more deeply the issues and concerns located in
these writings
LATN 317   Pliny The Younger   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
This course examines the correspondence of the younger Pliny, as well as
the political, social, and intellectual context of later Classical Rome and
Roman customs in public and private life.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate these works with proﬁciency,
demonstrate knowledge in detail of the genre, the author and his times,
and understand and appreciate the ideas, issues and concerns expressed
in the letters

--- Page 313 ---
344  Classical Studies
LATN 325   The Orations of Cicero   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
This course centers on the public orations of Cicero, his methods of
oratorical persuasion, and the judicial processes of late Republican Rome
that form the context for these orations.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate these works with proﬁciency,
demonstrate knowledge in detail of the genre, the author and his times,
understand and appreciate the ideas, issues and concerns expressed in
the orations, and comprehend the historical and judicial background of
the orations
LATN 328   Quintilian   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and LATN 102 or their equivalents   
This courses centers on Quintilian and his Institutio Oratoria, a
comprehensive textbook of the technical aspects of ancient rhetoric.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate these works with proﬁciency,
demonstrate knowledge in detail of Latin rhetoric and oratory, and
understand and appreciate Latin rhetorical styles, literary ﬁgures, and the
structure and contents of Latin speeches
LATN 332   Historical Masterworks I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
This course examines the works of Livy or Sallust and their contexts in
the later Republic and early Empire.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate these works with proﬁciency and
demonstrate knowledge in detail of the author/s studied and the contents
of the writings, as well appreciation for the genre of historical writing and
for its signiﬁcance within its political and intellectual context
LATN 335   Historical Masterworks II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
This course examines the works of Tacitus, Suetonius or Latin historical
writers of the later Roman Empire.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate these works with proﬁciency and
demonstrate knowledge in detail of the author/s studied and the contents
of the writings, as well appreciation for the genre of historical writing and
for its signiﬁcance within its political and intellectual contexts
LATN 341   Vergil   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
This course focuses on Vergil's Aeneid and the genre of Latin epic poetry,
in particular, on the character of Aeneas and his place within the context
of Augustan Roman politics and society.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the Aeneid with proﬁciency, and
demonstrate detailed knowledge of the author, the poem, and its contents
and meanings, as well as deeper understanding and appreciation
of various contexts of the poem and Vergil's accomplishments in
composing it
LATN 343   Latin Verse   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
The subject of this course is Latin poetic verse, including selections from
Catullus, Horace, Martial, Statius and other Latin poets.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the works with proﬁciency, and
demonstrate knowledge in detail about the authors, their poetry, and the
various poetic styles they employed, as well as deeper understanding
and appreciation of the historical, social and intellectual contexts and
influences pertaining to themLATN 344   Roman Elegy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
The subject of this course is Latin elegiac poetry, including selections
from Catullus, Tibullus, Propertius, and Ovid.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate Roman elegy with proﬁciency, and
demonstrate knowledge in detail about the authors, their poetry, and Latin
elegy, as well as deeper understanding and appreciation of the historical,
social and intellectual contexts and influences pertaining to them
LATN 345   Horace   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
This course focuses on selections of the odes, satires and epistles of
Horace, set against the backdrop of late Republican and Augustan Rome.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the selections of Horace with
proﬁciency, and demonstrate knowledge in detail about the author, his
poetry, the various styles he used, as well as deeper understanding
and appreciation of the historical, social and intellectual contexts and
influences pertaining to them
LATN 346   Juvenal   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
This course focuses on the satires of Juvenal, set against the backdrop
of Flavian Age Rome and the Roman Empire.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the satires with proﬁciency, and
demonstrate knowledge in detail about the author and his satires, as well
as deeper understanding and appreciation of the historical, social and
intellectual contexts and influences pertaining to them
LATN 347   Early Christian Poetry   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and LATN 102 or their equivalents   
This courses centers on early Christian poets such as Ausonius,
Prudentius and Fortunatus, and their works.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the selected works with proﬁciency,
and demonstrate knowledge in detail about the authors and their poems,
as well as deeper understanding and appreciation of the historical, social,
spiritual, and intellectual contexts of their works
LATN 351   Roman Comedy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
This course focuses on the genre of Roman comedy, including selected
plays of Plautus and/or Terence.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Shakespeare Studies   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate selected texts in Roman comedy
with proﬁciency and demonstrate knowledge in detail about the authors
and their comedies, as well as deeper understanding and appreciation of
the historical, social and intellectual contexts and influences  pertaining
to them
LATN 360   Lucretius   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
This course centers on translation and understanding of the De Rerum
Natura of Lucretius.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the poetry of Lucretius with
proﬁciency and demonstrate knowledge in detail about the author and his
work, as well as deeper understanding and appreciation of the historical,
social and intellectual contexts and influences pertaining to it

--- Page 314 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 345
LATN 361   St Augustine's Works   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
This course focuses on translation and understanding of the works of
Saint Augustine.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
Course equivalencies:  LATN361/CATH361   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate these works with proﬁciency and be
able to demonstrate knowledge in detail about the author and his works,
as well as deeper understanding and appreciation of the historical, social
and intellectual contexts and influences pertaining to them
LATN 362   Cicero's Philosophical Works   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
This course focuses on translation and understanding of the
philosophical works of the orator Cicero, including, for example, De
Amicitia.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the philosophical works of  Cicero
with proﬁciency and be able to demonstrate knowledge in detail
about the author and his works, as well as deeper understanding and
appreciation of the historical, social and intellectual contexts and
influences pertaining to them
LATN 364   Seneca   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
This course focuses on translation and understanding of the works of the
philosopher and playwright, Seneca.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Shakespeare Studies   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the selected works of Seneca with
proﬁciency and demonstrate knowledge in detail about the author and his
works, as well as deeper understanding and appreciation of the historical,
social and intellectual contexts and influences pertaining to them
LATN 373   Workshop-Secondary School Latin   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
This course examines the objectives, standards, methods of presentation,
testing, audiovisual aids, and desirable backgrounds for the teaching of
Latin in secondary schools. This course is for prospective teachers of
Latin and is taught in cooperation with Loyola's School of Education.
Course equivalencies:  X-CIEP373/LATN373   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate knowledge of these objec tive
and standards, etc, as well as be able to employ them effectively in
classroom contexts
LATN 387   Medieval Latin   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
This course focuses on readings in medieval Latin prose and poetry, as
well as on comparison with classical Latin style and content.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Medieval Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-LATN387/MSTU384   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the selected works of the course
with proﬁciency, and demonstrate knowledge in detail about their authors,
as well as deeper understanding and appreciation of the historical, social
and intellectual contexts and influences pertaining to themLATN 388   Readings in Latin Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
Students study a selected range of masterworks in Latin literature. (This
is a special topics course in Latin.)
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the selected works with proﬁciency
and demonstrate deeper knowledge and understanding of selected Latin
literature, its style and its possible interpretations
LATN 389   Readings in Latin Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  LATN 101 and 102 or their equivalents   
Students study a selected range of masterworks in Latin literature. (This
is a special topics course in Latin.)
Outcomes:
Students should be able to translate the selected works with proﬁciency
and demonstrate deeper knowledge and understanding of selected Latin
literature, its style and its possible interpretations
Ancient Greek (BA)
A major in Greek provides students with a well-rounded knowledge of
the ancient Greek language, as well as Greek culture and traditions.
Students will become proﬁcient at reading different genres of Greek
literature in the original; they will also add electives in Latin, Greek, or
Classical Civilization to ﬁll out their degree. Students will ﬁnish their
senior year with a capstone sequence and the creation of a portfolio that
demonstrates the wide range of their learning over the course of their
study. Majors in Greek will ﬁnd themselves prepared for pre-law or pre-
medical programs, business, and other careers.
Related Programs
Major
•Classical Civilization (BA)  (p. 346)
Minor
•Ancient Greek Minor  (p. 346)
•Classical Civilization Minor  (p. 347)
Curriculum
For a major in Greek, students must take at least six courses beyond
the elementary Greek sequence, reading ancient Greek literature in
Greek. Options include courses on speciﬁc authors such as Euripides,
Aristophanes and Homer, and on topics such as Greek oratory and
historiography. At least two of those courses must be at the 300-level.
Majors must also take the year-long senior capstone, "The Humanism of
Antiquity. " Four electives in ancient Greek, Latin, or classical civilization
courses round out the major. The major is thus a total of 36 credit hours.
Students can begin the Greek major at Loyola without previous language
experience.
For more information, please  contact us  (https://www.luc.edu/
classicalstudies/contactus.shtml/ ).
Code Title Hours
Major RequirementsGREK Electives (at least 2 at the 300-level)  118
Four (4) courses in GREK, LATN, or CLST 12CapstoneCLST 383 The Humanism of Antiquity I 3

--- Page 315 ---
346  Ancient Greek MinorCLST 384The Humanism of Antiquity II3Total Hours36
1Courses must be beyond the elementary sequence in Greek
(GREK 101  Ancient Greek I  and  GREK 102  Ancient Greek II ).
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
Upon successful completion of their program, Greek students will:
•read Greek at an advanced level
•analyze Greek texts from a variety of genres and contexts
•formulate interpretations based on textual evidence and current
scholarly practice
Ancient Greek Minor
A minor in Greek provides students with a well-rounded knowledge of the
ancient Greek language, as well as Greek culture and traditions. Students
will become proﬁcient at reading different genres of Greek literature in
the original, ﬁnishing their senior year with a capstone course in Greek
literature. Minors in Greek will ﬁnd themselves prepared for pre-law or pre-
medical programs, business, and other careers.
Related Programs
Major
•Ancient Greek (BA)  (p. 345)
•Classical Civilization (BA)  (p. 346)
Minor
•Classical Civilization Minor  (p. 347)
•Latin Minor  (p. 349)
Curriculum
The minor in Greek requires four courses at the 200-level or above, plus
the ﬁrst half of the senior capstone, "The Humanism of Antiquit y, " a total
of 15 credit hours.
For more information, please  contact us  (https://www.luc.edu/
classicalstudies/contactus.shtml/ ).Code Title Hours
Required CoursesFour (4) Courses in GREK at the 200/300 level  112CLST 383The Humanism of Antiquity I3Total Hours15
1Courses must be beyond the elementary sequence in Greek ( GREK 101
Ancient Greek I  and GREK 102 Ancient Greek II ).
Learning Outcomes
Upon successful completion of their program, Greek students will:
•read Greek at an advanced level
•analyze Greek texts from a variety of genres and contexts
•formulate interpretations based on textual evidence and current
scholarly practice
Classical Civilization (BA)
A major in Classical Civilization provides a well-rounded knowledge
of ancient culture and traditions. Students have the opportunity to
build their own program of study by choosing any combination of
electives, which include courses in Literature and Language; History,
Culture, and Society; and Art and Archaeology. Students will ﬁnish their
senior year with a capstone sequence and the creation of a portfolio
that demonstrates the wide range of their learning over the course of
their study. Classical Studies students learn to apply their learning in
cross-disciplinary, integrative ways that enable them to capitalize on
multidimensional understanding of whole cultures. Majors in Classical
Civilization will ﬁnd themselves prepared for pre-law or pre-medical
programs, business, and other careers.
Related Programs
Major
•Ancient Greek (BA)  (p. 345)
•Latin (BA)  (p. 348)
Minor
•Classical Civilization Minor  (p. 347)
Curriculum
Subjects are offered in a wide variety, including Classical mythology,
literature, art, archaeology, law, religion and gender studies. In completing
the major, students receive a well-rounded and broad education through
interaction with ancient literature and languages, art and archaeology,
and history and culture. Students will emerge with experience and
comprehension of the many different facets of ancient Mediterranean
civilizations. Course materials for this major are presented in English,
but students have the option of substituting up to four courses (12 credit
hours) of coursework in ancient Greek or Latin at any level.
For more information, please  contact us  (https://www.luc.edu/
classicalstudies/contactus.shtml/ ).
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesCLST 275World of Classical Greece3
CLST 276 World of Classical Rome 3

--- Page 316 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 347Literature RequirementSelect one of the following: 3CLST 271Classical MythologyCLST 271G Classical Mythology - Women/Gender FocusCLST 272Heroes & the Classical EpicsCLST 273 Classical TragedyCLST 273GClassical Tragedy - Women/Gender FocusCLST 279 Classical RhetoricCLST 280Romance Novel in Ancient WorldCLST 283 Classical Comedy & SatireElectivesAny 5 CLST courses; up to 4 can be GREK or LATN  115CapstoneCLST 383 The Humanism of Antiquity I 3CLST 384The Humanism of Antiquity II3Total Hours30
1For course descriptions, see here  (p. 334).
Portfolio
A portfolio is required as part of degree requirements for this major.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
Students must take 8 CLST courses, at any level, and in any order, to
complete the major (although up to four courses in Greek and Latin
language may be substituted towards the major). In their ﬁnal year,
students will complete CLST 383  and CLST 384 , a year-long capstone
sequence.
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
Upon successful completion of their program, Classical Civilization
students will:
•demonstrate knowledge of the culture, ideas, and values of the
ancient Greeks and Romans
•analyze written, visual, and material objects in accordance with the
methodologies of the relevant discipline (literature & languages, art &
archaeology, history & culture)•contextualize the Greeks and Romans within a broader global
environment
•formulate valid connections between the ancient world and the
problems and questions of the 21st century
•sharpen discipline-speciﬁc research skills and present interpretive
observations in written and oral form
Classical Civilization Minor
A minor in Classical Civilization provides a well-rounded knowledge of
ancient culture and traditions. Students have the opportunity to build
their own program of study by choosing any combination of electives in
courses whose topics fall under the rubric of Literature and Language;
History, Culture, and Society; and Art and Archaeology. Classical Studies
students learn to apply their learning in cross-disciplinary, integrative
ways that enable them to capitalize on multidimensional understanding
of whole cultures. Majors in Classical Civilization will ﬁnd themselves
prepared for pre-law or pre-medical programs, business, and other
careers.
Related Programs
Major
•Classical Civilization (BA)  (p. 346)
Minor
•Ancient Greek Minor  (p. 346)
•Latin Minor  (p. 349)
Curriculum
The minor in Classical Civilization requires 18 credit hours, which may
include the year-long senior capstone at students' option. Students
pursuing the minor also have the option of substituting up to four
courses (12 credit hours) of coursework in ancient Greek or Latin at any
level for coursework presented in English. As with the majors, breadth of
disciplinary experience is recommended, but not required.
For more information, please  contact us  (https://www.luc.edu/
classicalstudies/contactus.shtml/ ).
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesSix (6) courses in CLST  118
CLST 206 Art of Ancient GreeceCLST 207Art of the Roman WorldCLST 241 Religions of Ancient GreeceCLST 267Medical and Scientiﬁc Terminology in ContextCLST 271 Classical MythologyCLST 271GClassical Mythology - Women/Gender FocusCLST 271R Classical Mythology - Rome FocusCLST 272Heroes & the Classical EpicsCLST 273 Classical TragedyCLST 273GClassical Tragedy - Women/Gender FocusCLST 274 World of Archaic GreeceCLST 275World of Classical GreeceCLST 276 World of Classical RomeCLST 277World of Late AntiquityCLST 278 Experiencing Mesopotamia

--- Page 317 ---
348  Classics Degree-Distinction (-BAC/-BSC)CLST 279Classical RhetoricCLST 280 Romance Novel in Ancient WorldCLST 281War and War Experience, Ancient and ModernCLST 283 Classical Comedy & SatireCLST 288Greek Literature in TranslationCLST 289 Latin Literature in TranslationCLST 295Women in the Classical WorldCLST 304 History of Ancient PhilosophyCLST 305Ancient Political ThoughtCLST 306 Science in Ancient Greece and RomeCLST 308History of Rome to ConstantineCLST 309 Greece to Alexander the GreatCLST 315Alexander & Hellenistic WorldCLST 316 Western Patristic ThoughtCLST 318Transformations of Rome in Late AntiquityCLST 324 Shipwreck ArchaeologyCLST 328Pompeii and HerculaneumCLST 334 Intro to Classical ArcheologyCLST 334RIntroduction to Classical Archaeology - Rome/Italy
FocusCLST 340 Classical Arch-Greek TemplesCLST 342Geography of The Ancient WorldCLST 344 Ancient Greek and Roman CoinsCLST 348Introduction to Museum StudiesCLST 361 Roman Political Theory & PracticeCLST 362Roman LawCLST 363 Law & Legislature-Ancient GreeceCLST 373Daily Life in Ancient GreeceCLST 374 Private Life of Ancient RomansCLST 375Archaeology of Early GreeceCLST 376 Homeric QuestionsCLST 378Sport in Ancient Greece & RomeCLST 380 Research in Classical StudiesCLST 381Directed StudyCLST 382 Internship in Classical StudiesCLST 383The Humanism of Antiquity ICLST 384 The Humanism of Antiquity IICLST 385Historical Classic Greek Literature to 200 A.DCLST 386 History of Classical Roman LitCLST 388Classical Backgrounds ICLST 389 Classical Backgrounds IICLST 390Fieldwork Greek Sites/MuseumsCLST 391 Topics in Comp LiteratureCLST 392Theories of MythCLST 395 Topography of RomeCLST 499Directed StudyTotal Hours18
1Up to four (4) courses in GREK or LATN may be substituted.Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Learning Outcomes
Upon successful completion of their program, Classical Civilization
students will:
•understand the culture, ideas, and values of ancient Mediterranean
peoples
•analyze written, visual, and material objects in accordance with the
methodologies of the relevant disciplinary stream (literature &amp;
languages, art &amp; archaeology, history &amp; culture)
•formulate valid connections between the ancient world, its later
receptions, and the problems and questions of the 21st century
Classics Degree-Distinction (-BAC/-
BSC)
Besides its own majors and minors  (p. 333), the Department of
Classical Studies also supports a special degree-distinction program that
preserves the form of a well-rounded humanistic education in the Jesuit
tradition. The Classics degree-distinction, available in all undergraduate
programs of Loyola University Chicago, is modeled after the course of
study that was required of all Loyola undergraduates during the ﬁrst
century of the institution.
The Classics degree-distinction is not a major. Students major in any
department or program within the College of Arts and Sciences or other
undergraduate School within Loyola University Chicago; please see
departmental advisers for those requirements. The unique distinction of
the Classics degree-distinction is that the Bachelor's degree the student
earns also comprises four courses above the 100-series in Greek or
Latin; Classics degree-distinguished graduates must also demonstrate
elementary-level competence in a second foreign language (potentially
though not necessarily the other classical language), amounting to two
semesters' credit for college-level work or the equivalent expertise (e.g.,
proﬁciency exam or AP credit). A student completes a total of 120 course
hours (minimum) to graduate with the Classics degree-distinction.
The notation "Classics" on a student's transcripts indicates a well-
rounded education, giving the student an advantage on the job market or
with law, medical or graduate school admission boards.
•For more information about the Classics  degree-distinction, please
contact Dr. Jonathan Mannering, Undergraduate Programs Director
(jmannering@luc.edu ).
•To declare your intention to pursue the Classics degree-distinction,
please print and ﬁll out the form at www.luc.edu/cas/forms  (http://
www.luc.edu/cas/forms.shtml/ ) and submit it to the Dean's Ofﬁce of
the College of Arts and Sciences (Sullivan Center 235 or Lewis Towers
900).
Latin (BA)
A major in Latin provides students with a well-rounded knowledge
of Latin language, as well as ancient Roman culture and traditions.
Students will become proﬁcient at reading different genres of Latin
literature in the original; they will also add electives in Latin, Greek, or

--- Page 318 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 349
Classical Civilization to ﬁll out their degree. Students will ﬁnish their
senior year with a capstone sequence and the creation of a portfolio that
demonstrates the wide range of their learning over the course of their
study. Majors in Latin will ﬁnd themselves prepared for pre-law or pre-
medical programs, business, and other careers.
Related Programs
Major
•Ancient Greek (BA)  (p. 345)
•Classical Civilization (BA)  (p. 346)
Minor
•Latin Minor  (p. 349)
Curriculum
For a major in Latin, students must take at least six courses beyond
the 100-level Latin language sequence, reading Latin literature in Latin.
Options include courses on speciﬁc authors such as Cicero, Horace,
Virgil and Juvenal, and on topics such as "The Age of Nero" and Roman
historiography. At least two of those courses must be at the 300-level.
Majors must also take the year-long senior capstone, "The Humanism
of Antiquity. " Four electives in Latin, Greek, or Classical Civilization
courses round out the major. The major is thus a total of 36 credit hours.
Students can begin the Latin major at Loyola without previous language
experience.
For more information, please  contact us  (https://www.luc.edu/
classicalstudies/contactus.shtml/ ).
Code Title Hours
Major RequirementsLATN Electives (at least 2 at the 300-level)  118
Four (4) courses in GREK, LATN, or CLST 12CapstoneCLST 383 The Humanism of Antiquity I 3CLST 384The Humanism of Antiquity II3Total Hours36
1Courses must be beyond the elementary sequence in Latin
(LATN 101  Latin I  and  LATN 102  Latin II ).
Portfolio
A portfolio is required as part of degree requirements for this major.
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts arenot required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
Upon successful completion of their program, Latin students will:
•read Latin at an advanced level
•analyze Latin texts from a variety of genres and contexts
•formulate interpretations based on textual evidence and current
scholarly practice
Latin Minor
A minor in Latin provides students with a well-rounded knowledge of
Latin language, as well as ancient Roman culture and traditions. Students
will become proﬁcient at reading different genres of Latin literature in
the original, ﬁnishing their senior year with a capstone course in Roman
literature. Minors in Latin will ﬁnd themselves prepared for pre-law or pre-
medical programs, business, and other careers.
Related Programs
Major
•Classical Civilization (BA)  (p. 346)
Minor
•Ancient Greek Minor  (p. 346)
•Classical Civilization Minor  (p. 347)
Curriculum
The minor in Latin requires four courses at the 200-level or above, plus
the second half of the senior capstone, "The Humanism of Antiqu ity, " a
total of 15 credit hours.
For more information, please  contact us  (https://www.luc.edu/
classicalstudies/contactus.shtml/ ).
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesFour (4) Courses in LATN at the 200/300 level  112CLST 384The Humanism of Antiquity II3Total Hours15
1Courses must be beyond the elementary sequence in Latin ( LATN 101
Latin I  and LATN 102 Latin II ).
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Learning Outcomes
Upon successful completion of their program, Latin students will:
•read Latin at an advanced level
•analyze Latin texts from a variety of genres and contexts

--- Page 319 ---
350  Computer Science
•formulate interpretations based on textual evidence and current
scholarly practice
Computer Science
Undergraduate Degree Programs
We offer several Bachelor of Science degree programs: the Computer
Science major and three newer specialized majors: Cybersecurity,
Software Engineering, and Information Technology. There also are
two interdepartmental majors with their own administrative structure:
Bioinformatics and Data Science. There also is a Computational
Science track within the Applied Mathematics major managed by the
mathematics department. Also, there are two combined majors with
mathematics and physics, respectively. We also offer minors in computer
science, computer crime and forensics, and information technology.
Finally, students can enroll in a streamlined dual-degree BS/MS program.
Undergraduate Programs
•Artiﬁcial Intelligence Minor  (p. 359)
•Computer Crime and Forensics Minor  (p. 374)
•Computer Science (BS)  (p. 360)
•Computer Science (BS/MS)  (p. 1068 )
•Computer Science Minor  (p. 362)
•Cybersecurity (BS)  (p. 363)
•Departmental Honors  (p. 365)
•Information Technology/Computer Science (BA/MS)  (p. 1259 )
•Information Technology (BS)  (p. 365)
•Information Technology (BA/MS)  (p. 1251 )
•Information Technology (BS/MS)  (p. 1254 )
•Information Technology Minor  (p. 367)
•Physics with Computer Science (BS)  (p. 621)
•Software Engineering (BS)  (p. 368)
•Software Engineering (BS/MS)  (p. 1368 )
Computer Science Department Policies
"Double-Dipping" Rules
Computer Science Qualiﬁers to the College of Arts & Sciences
Double-Dipping Policy for Majors and Minors
March 2022
This rule seeks to clarify policies with respect to awarding multiple
majors or minors, in so far as they relate to any of the majors and minors
administered by the Computer Science Department; we also touch upon
interdepartmental programs that include many COMP courses.
For the most part, departmental policy is captured by the College of Arts
& Sciences default rules  (https://www.luc.edu/media/lucedu/cas/pdfs/
Double%20Dipping%20Policy.pdf ) that a student may not major and
minor in the same discipline, any extra major requires 21 credits not being
used for another major, and any minor requires at least 8 credits not being
used for another major or minor.
Some further details relating to computing majors and minors follow.
The programs administered by the Computer Science Department are the
following majors:•"Computer Science" (COMP-BS)
•"Cybersecurity" (CSEC-BS)
•"Information Technology" (ITEC-BS)
•"Software Engineering" (SWEN-BS)
and minors:
•"Computer Science" (COMP-MINR)
•"Information Technology" (ITEC-MINR)
•"Computer Crime and Forensics" (CCFR-MINR)
In addition, the following majors administered primarily through an
interdepartmental program or another department incorporate heavy
computing content:
•"Mathematics & Computer Science" (MCSC-BS) (administered
primarily by the Department of Mathematics and Statistics)
•"Physics With Computer Science" (PCSC-BS) (administered primarily
by the Department of Physics)
•"Data Science" (DSCI-BS) (interdepartmental program with its own
director)
•"Bioinformatics" (BIOI-BS) (interdepartmental program with its own
director)
The Department of Computer Science has established the following
policies:
1.The CAS rule against obtaining a major and a minor in the same
discipline is to be interpreted as generally prohibiting combinations
of very closely related disciplines. In particular, a minor in "Computer
Science" (COMP-MINR) or "Information Technology" (ITEC-MINR) is
prohibited for any student majoring in "Computer Science" (COMP-
BS), "Cybersecurity" (CSEC-BS), "Information Technology" (ITEC-
BS), "Software Engineering" (SWEN-BS), "Mathematics & Computer
Science" (MCSC-BS), "Physics With Computer Science" (PCSC-BS), or
"Data Science" (DSCI-BS).
2.At the same time, a minor in "Computer Crime and Forensics" (CCFR-
MINR) is permitted with any major, as long as it incorporates the
CAS default of at least 8 distinct credits. (Note that this may restrict
"Computer Crime and Forensics" (CCFR-MINR) choices for computing
majors; in particular, a student with a "Cybersecurity" (CSEC-BS)
major will always need to incorporate three CJC courses.)
3.In addition, a minor in "Computer Science" (COMP-MINR) or
"Information Technology" (ITEC-MINR) is permitted with a major in 
"Bioinformatics" (BIOI-BS) as long as it incorporates the CAS default
of at least 8 distinct credits. In consultation with the Undergraduate
  Program Director, students may also be able to arrange certain 
substitutions in the minor to avoid taking excessively similar classes.
4.A major in "Mathematics & Computer Science" (MCSC-BS) is
not meaningful for a student who completes separate majors in
both Mathematics and any of "Computer Science" (COMP-BS),
"Cybersecurity" (CSEC-BS), "Information Technology" (ITEC-BS),
or "Software Engineering" (SWEN-BS), even if extra course work is
incorporated.
5.A major in "Physics With Computer Science" (PCSC-BS) is
not meaningful for a student who completes separate majors
in both Physics and any of "Computer Science" (COMP-BS),
"Cybersecurity"(CSEC-BS), "Information Technology" (ITEC-BS), or
"Software Engineering" (SWEN-BS), even if extra course work is
incorporated.

--- Page 320 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 351
The following table summarizes the number of distinct credits required
for various combinations of majors and minors, where X represents a
disallowed combination:COMP-
BSCSEC-
BSITEC-
BSSWEN-
BSMCSC-
BSPCSC-
BSDSCI-
BSBIOI-
BS
COMP-
BSX 21 21 21 21 21 21 21CSEC-
BS21X212121212121
ITEC-
BS21 21 X 21 21 21 21 21SWEN-
BS212121X21212121
MCSC-
BS21 21 21 21 X 21 21 21PSCS-
BS2121212121X2121
DSCI-
BS21 21 21 21 21 21 X 21BIOI-BS21212121212121X
COMP-
MINRX X X X X X X 8ITEC-
MINRXXXXXXX8
CCFR-
MINR8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8Double
major
involving
two
corresponding
departmentsXXUndergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Computer Science (COMP)
COMP 102   Web Design and Multimedia Publishing   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces foundations of the world wide web technology,
HTML, and multimedia publishing techniques. Topics include HTML
syntax, CSS, XML, RSS, and various multimedia formats.
Outcomes:
An understanding of the technologies behind web sites and the ability to
use them effectively
COMP 104   Computer Animation   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course introduces techniques for understanding and developing
dynamic and interactive media by using sound, motion, images, and text.
Relevant software knowledge areas are covered.
Outcomes:
Ability to publish created animated media projects to the web in a
process that involves understanding human interface designCOMP 111   History of Computing   (3 Credit Hours)   
The social and organizational history of humanity is intricately entangled
with the history of technology in general and the technology of
information in particular. Advances in this area have often been closely
involved in social and political transformations. While the contemporary
period is often referred to by such names as the Computing and
Information Age, this is the culmination of a series of historical
transformations that have been centuries in the making. This course will
provide a venue for students to learn about history through the evolution
of number systems and arithmetic, calculating and computing machines,
and advanced communication technology via the internet.
Course equivalencies:  X - COMP 111 / HIST 279C   
COMP 112   Loyola University Technology Ensemble   (1 Credit Hour)   
Loyola University Technology Ensemble (LUTE) is a performing
ensemble with a composition & engineering component. Its primary
instrumentation is electronic or electroacoustic, encompassing digital
and analogue electronic instruments, live coding, circuit bending, and
repurposing of devices or objects, etc. LUTE will appear in public at least
once during each semester.
Course equivalencies:  X-COMP 112/MUSC 112   
Outcomes:
Collaborate to compose, engineer, and perform unique technology-driven
musical experiences; design interface modules for electroacoustic
performance; encode musical ideas in software or digital musical
instruments; perform publicly
COMP 122   Introduction to Digital Music   (3 Credit Hours)   
Computers and digital tools have been seeping into the world of music,
this course aims to explore this newly formed territory. This course is
intended for students who wish to learn more about electronic music,
signal processing, and algorithmic music composition.
Knowledge Area:  Quantitative Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  X-COMP 122/MUSC 122   
Outcomes:
Understanding of the physics of musical sound and digital audio, facility
with hands-on applications of algorithmic music composition and
musicology, and ability to design and render digital instruments
COMP 125   Visual Information Processing   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course, intended primarily for non-majors, provides an introduction
to computer programming using a language well-suited to beginning
programmers and practical applications, e.g., Visual Basic.Net. Restricted
to Freshman or Sophomore standing OR majors other than COMP-BS
AND CSEC-BS AND SWEN-BS.
Knowledge Area:  Quantitative Knowledge   
Outcomes:
Understanding of computer mechanisms for representing and analyzing
numerical and logical information and the power of programmability;
practical ability to implement useful computing tools
COMP 141   Introduction to Computing Tools and Techniques   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course introduces students to the Unix shell environment and
essential tools for succeeding in computer science degrees. Students
who complete this course will develop fluency in the Unix (Linux)
environment, which is essential for solving problems in academic,
research, and professional computing disciplines.

--- Page 321 ---
352  Computer Science
COMP 144   Cybersecurity for All   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will cover cybersecurity fundamentals, including how to think
like an adversary, general awareness of cybersecurity and privacy, and
cybercrime. This course is intended for any student who wants to know
more about general cybersecurity and privacy issues in the "cyber" world.
Outcomes:
Ability to quantitatively and qualitatively assess cybersecurity and
privacy risks, and understanding fundamentals of protecting security and
privacy in a cyberworld and connections to cybercrime and other real-life
scenarios
COMP 150   Introduction to Computing   (3 Credit Hours)   
The world overflows with electronic data. This course introduces
programming in a simple, powerful language like Python, with selection,
repetition, functions, graphical effects, and dynamic interaction with
the Internet, plus connections to lower level computer organization and
computer implications in the wider world. Restricted to Freshman or
Sophomore standing OR majors other than COMP-BS AND CSEC-BS AND
SWEN-BS.
Knowledge Area:  Quantitative Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  ACCOMP 150/COMP 150   
Outcomes:
Empowerment to manage and transform masses of data; understanding
of technical, societal, and ethical issues involved
COMP 163   Discrete Structures   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 110 or MATH 117 or placement into MATH 118 or
higher   
This course covers the mathematical foundations of computer science,
including such topics as complexity of algorithms, modular arithmetic,
induction and proof techniques, graph theory, combinatorics, Boolean
algebra, logic circuits, and automata.
Course equivalencies:  COMP211/COMP163   
Outcomes:
The student will be prepared for the study of advanced ideas in computer
science, from cryptography to databases to algorithms to computer
architecture
COMP 170   Introduction to Object-Oriented Programming   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 110 or MATH 118 or Placement into a higher
MATH course, or COMP 125 or COMP 141 or COMP 150 or COMP 180
or permission or SCPS student; Prior experience with a procedural
programming language is sufﬁcient to obtain permission to enroll   
This programming intensive course with its weekly lab component
introduces basic concepts of object-oriented programming in a language
such as Java.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics   
Course equivalencies:  COMP170/ISOM/INFS370   
Outcomes:
Ability to take a problem, break it into parts, specify algorithms, and
express a solution in terms of variables, data types, input/output,
repetition, choice, arrays, subprograms, classes, and objects; Ability to
judge a good program
COMP 171   Scripting Languages   (1 Credit Hour)   
Scripting languages are rapid prototyping languages that are used
extensively. This course covers the principles, syntax and semantics of
widely used scripting languages.
Outcomes:
Students will learn how a program can be put together quickly and
efﬁciently to solve problemsCOMP 180   Computing and Data Analysis for the Sciences   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 110 or MATH 117 (or any higher MATH course such
as 118, 131, 132, 161, 162) with grade of at least C- or placement into
MATH 118   
Scientiﬁc computing emphasizes data analysis and visualization
in a scientiﬁc context - analyzing data quickly for understandi ng by
the individual, sharing automated workflows with collaborators, and
preparing results for later publication. This course will emphasize rapid,
interactive, and reproducible collaborative analysis of data for scientiﬁc
contribution.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Outcomes:
At the end of this course, students will be well versed in the use of a
speciﬁc, interactive environment for data analysis (likely Python, R, or
MATLAB as indicated in the course notes) for analyzing data and sharing
results
COMP 215   Object Oriented Programming with Mathematics   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 132 or MATH 162 or MATH 162A   
This is an introductory programming course for students interested in
mathematics and scientiﬁc computing. Students will program primarily in
a general object-oriented language such as Python, with supplementary
exercises in a computer algebra system. Examples will be drawn
primarily from applications of calculus, elementary number theory, and
cryptography.
Course equivalencies:  X-COMP215/MATH215   
Outcomes:
Students will learn basic scripting and object-oriented programming, with
the goal of being able to solve mathematical and scientiﬁc problems
COMP 231   Data Structures & Algorithms for Informatics   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (MATH/COMP 215 OR COMP 170) AND (COMP 141 OR
AMTH-BS OR MATH-BS) Advisory: MATH/COMP 215 preferred   
This course introduces data structures and algorithms that are essential
for data science and informatics. Here we will focus on identifying the
right method for storing data and using the most efﬁcient algorithm for
analysis. A subset of data structures and algorithms fundamental to
computer science will be covered.
Outcomes:
Students will learn fundamental data structures and algorithms
frequently used in informatics and data science; Students will be able to
apply this knowledge for data analysis
COMP 250   Introduction to Scientiﬁc and Technical Communication   (3
Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  A minimum grade of C- in COMP 125 or COMP 150 or
COMP 170 or COMP/MATH 215   
This course trains students in writing clear, readable, and well-
organized technical communications, including presentations, end-user
documentation, internal project documentation, and scientiﬁc papers.
Outcomes:
Students will learn to write clear technical documentation

--- Page 322 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 353
COMP 251   Introduction to Database Systems   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 125 or COMP 150 or COMP 170 or COMP 180 or
COMP/MATH 215   
This course explores ways in which data collections are organized,
stored, analyzed, and manipulated. Topics include relational databases,
the SQL query language, and the basics of XML and web interfaces to
data sets. Applications from a variety of domains illustrate the course's
key concepts.
Course equivalencies:  COMP 251 / COMP 368   
Outcomes:
Students will organize data in ways to emphasize relationships, write
simple programs to process, visualize and graphically display data, mine
data for patterns, and design web interfaces to data
COMP 264   Introduction to Computer Systems   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 141 and (COMP 170 or MATH/COMP 215) and
(coreq or prereq of COMP 163 or MATH 201); COMP 163 coreq or prereq
and COMP 170 prereq preferred   
This course studies the hierarchy of abstractions and implementations
that constitute a modern computer system, with a particular focus on
issues of interest to programmers, typically including some systems
programming instruction.
Outcomes:
Understanding of system issues that affect the performance, correctness,
or utility of user-level programs
COMP 266   Digital Electronics Lab   (3 Credit Hours)   
Combinatorial and sequential logic devices, oscillators and timers,
microprocessor components, CPU operation, computer architecture and
digital/analog conversion.
Course equivalencies:  X-PHYS266/COMP266   
Outcomes:
Students will gain a working knowledge of digital electronics design
and its application to computers, an understanding of CPU design and
operation and the ability to document and report experimental results
COMP 271   Data Structures I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 141 and COMP 170 and (co-requisite or pre-requisite
of COMP 163 (preferred) or MATH 201); For Bioinformatics majors, pre-
requisite of COMP 141 and COMP 170; For SCPS students, pre-requisite
of COMP 170   
This course studies basic data structures including array lists, linked lists,
stacks, queues, binary trees, and hash tables. Efﬁciency of data structure
operations, study of recursion, applications of data structures, and simple
analysis of algorithms are covered.
Outcomes:
Students learn linear data structures and the performance of their
operations, and they learn to solve simple computational problems by
designing suitable algorithms and efﬁcient data structures
COMP 272   Data Structures II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 271 and (COMP 163 or MATH 201) and (MATH 131
or MATH 161)   
This course studies advanced abstract data types, such as sets, maps,
and graphs, and their implementation using arrays and dynamically
allocated nodes in an object-oriented language. The course also studies
the performance of the data structures built-in operations and related
algorithms such as sorting, searching, and traversing.
Outcomes:
Students learn non-linear data structures and runtime performance of
their operations, solve computational problems by choosing suitable data
structures, and implement algorithms within the object-oriented paradigmCOMP 301   Introduction to Computer Security   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 170   
This is an introductory course on computer security covering a
broad range of topics, including basic security goals, encryption,
penetration testing, software exploitation, reverse engineering, packet
snifﬁng, and secure coding. The course teaches both the principles
and concepts of computer security as well as some of the tools and
technologies. Students will learn to think like an adversary, ﬁnd and
exploit vulnerabilities in computer and network systems, understand
cryptography and security goals, and learn about some of the commonly-
used tools.
COMP 305   Database Administration   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 231 or COMP 251 or COMP 271   
Business and scientiﬁc institutions increasingly use large commercial
data base systems. This course teaches the theory and practice for the
deﬁnition, security, backup, tuning, and recovery of these systems.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to use theory and pragmatic approaches to deﬁne
and implement realistic solutions for large database administration
environments
COMP 306   Data Mining   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (COMP 251 or COMP 353) and (STAT 103 or STAT 203
or STAT 335 or ISSCM 241 or PSYC 304 or instructor permission) and
(COMP 150 or COMP 170)   
This course covers theory and practice of the analysis (mining) of
extremely large datasets. With data growing at exponential rates
knowledge gathering and exploration techniques are essential for gaining
useful intelligence.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to deﬁne and critically analyze data mining
approaches for ﬁelds such as security, healthcare, science and marketing
COMP 309   Numerical Methods   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (COMP 170 or MATH/COMP 215), and [ (MATH 212, and
MATH 264) or MATH 266]   
This course offers an introduction to topics such as error analysis,
interpolation and approximation, and the numerical solution of problems
involving differentiation, integration, and ordinary and partial differential
equations. Students will obtain an understanding of how numerical
methods can be used in a variety of areas of mathematics.
Course equivalencies:  X-COMP309/MATH309   
COMP 310   Operating Systems   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 264 and COMP 271   
This course introduces principles of operating systems and how they are
designed. Various important parts of operating systems such as memory
addressing, ﬁle structures, processes, and threads are covered.
Outcomes:
Students will learn the different parts of an operating system at a
functional level and how they interact with each other
COMP 312   Open Source Software Practicum   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 231 or COMP 271 or instructor permission   
This course will cover the fundamentals of Free and Open Source
software development. Topics to be addressed include licensing, Linux,
typical software development tools, applications, and techniques for
managing remote servers.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will learn to implement projects involving Free and Open Source
software and learn how to participate in open-source projects effectively

--- Page 323 ---
354  Computer Science
COMP 313   Object-Oriented Design   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 272   
Object-orientation continues to be a dominant approach to software
development. This intermediate programming-intensive course studies
the use of classes and objects with an emphasis on collaboration among
objects.
Outcomes:
A thorough understanding of the principles of object-orientation:
abstraction, delegation, inheritance, and polymorphism; exposure to basic
design patterns; programming experience in mainstream object-oriented
languages such as C++ and Java
COMP 314   Problem Solving Strategies I   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 271   
Corequisite or This course allows students to sharpen problem-solving
skills along with, or as part of, the ACM Programming Team. Groups
generally work on old competition problems on alternate weekends, with
short follow-ups during the next week.
Course equivalencies:  COMP281/COMP314   
Outcomes:
Ability to work in small groups, quickly and accurately assessing
and solving focused problems involving many sorts of programming
knowledge
COMP 315   Problem Solving Strategies II   (2 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 314   
This course allows students to sharpen problem-solving skills along with,
or as part of, the ACM Programming Team. Groups generally work on
old competition problems on alternate weekends, with short follow-ups
during the next week.
Outcomes:
Ability to lead a small group, quickly and accurately assessing and
solving focused problems involving many sorts of programming
knowledge
COMP 317   Social, Legal, and Ethical Issues in Computing   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Any COMP course and Ethics Core   
This course covers social, legal, and ethical issues commonly arising in
key areas related to computing technologies.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Sociolegal Studies   
Outcomes:
Understanding of laws and issues in areas such as privacy, encryption,
freedom of speech, copyrights and patents, computer crime, and
computer/software reliability and safety; understanding of philosophical
perspectives such as utilitarianism versus deontological ethics and
basics of the U.S. legal system
COMP 319   Introduction to UNIX   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 170 and COMP/MATH 215   
An introduction to the UNIX operating system. Topics include ﬁles and
directories, electronic mail, security, advanced ﬁle systems, network
utilities, network ﬁle sharing, text utilities, shell programming, UNIX
internals, UNIX system administration (essentials), the X windowing
system, systems programming, and secure shell (SSH).
Course equivalencies:  COMP219/COMP319   
Outcomes:
After taking this course, students will develop working knowledge of Unix
and be able to use modern Unix operating systems such as Linux, OS X,
or SolarisCOMP 321   Computational Aspects of Modeling and Simulation   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  STAT 203 or STAT 335   
This course uses SAS and R languages to address statistical modelling
and to conduct statistical simulations to assess linear, generalized linear,
nonlinear and complex models and experimental designs.
Course equivalencies:  X-STAT356/COMP321/STAT321   
Outcomes:
Students will gain practical experience and knowledge in real-world
statistical situations for which underlying theory is cumbersome or
intractable
COMP 322   Software Development for Wireless and Mobile Devices   (3
Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 231 or COMP 271   
This course will focus on the unique challenges, methods, tools, and
technologies for developing software applications for wireless and
mobile devices, smart mobile phones, and the growing world of mobile
connected devices.
Outcomes:
1) Understand challenges of software design for resource limited devices;
2) Know the architecture of one or more state-of-the-art mobile operating
systems; 3) Gain experience designing, developing, testing embedded
software
COMP 323   Game Design and Development   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 231 or COMP 271   
This course studies design, development, and publication of games and
game-based applications. This includes example games and designers,
industry practices, and team-based project development.
Outcomes:
Students will acquire an awareness of different game design and
development methods, technologies, and techniques suitable for the
development of a variety of game based environments
COMP 324   Client-Side Web Development   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 231 or COMP 271   
This course covers the design and implementation of the presentation
layer of dynamic web applications. Topics include visual design and
usability, multi-channel and multi-modal applications, markup of static
and dynamic content, and client-side executable content. HTML/CSS/
JavaScript are introduced quickly, followed up with the stack of current
JavaScript frameworks and libraries used in practice.
Outcomes:
Familiarity with the most common effective tools for creating responsive,
dynamic, and interactive web content with client-side tools
COMP 325   Rapid Application Development Methodology   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 271 with a grade of C- or above   
This course will teach students how to effect rapid application
development using a software framework such as the .NET Framework.
Particular emphasis will be placed on enhancing object-oriented
programming skills using a language such as C#.NET .
Outcomes:
Students will gain enhanced skill in object-oriented programming
and development of such applications as database applications, web
applications, Microsoft .NET services, Silverlight applications, and WCF
Services

--- Page 324 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 355
COMP 326   Digital Music Programming   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  One of: COMP/MUSC 122, MUSC 201, COMP 125,
COMP 150, COMP 170, permission of instructor   
This course is an exploration of coding for music applications.
Topics include digital audio and synthesis theory and basic, musical
data structures, and principles of computer music composition and
interactivity. Students will design synthesis and sampling instruments,
algorithmic music generators, signal processors, and interactive control
systems using one or more music programming languages.
Course equivalencies:  X-COMP 326/MUSC 326   
Outcomes:
Create software modules for processing digital audio, MIDI, and
generative music; develop interactive interfaces; export applications or
modules; produce a portfolio of creative projects in areas of real-time
audio/MIDI processing
COMP 328   Algebraic Coding Theory   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 212   
Codes with algebraic structure for error control are examined. Block
codes including Hamming codes and Reed-Muller codes, BCH codes, and
other cyclic codes with algebraic structure and other cyclic codes and
their implementation are treated. Other topics may include: convolutional
codes, efﬁciency considerations, and Shannon's fundamental theorem of
information theory.
Course equivalencies:  X-MATH328/COMP328   
COMP 329   Natural Language Processing   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (COMP 231 or COMP 271) and (MATH 131 or MATH 161)
and (STAT 103 or STAT 203 or STAT 335 or ISSCM 241 or PSYC 304 or
instructor permission)   
This course provides an introduction to the ﬁeld of natural language
processing (NLP). NLP is concerned with computational approaches to
analyzing, generating, and understanding human language. This course
will introduce the students to the problems, methods, and applications of
NLP .
Outcomes:
Students will become familiar with such areas of natural language
processing as information retrieval, sentiment analysis, machine
translation, document classiﬁcation, and question answering
COMP 330   Software Engineering   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 271   
Students learn real-world theory and techniques organizations use
to create high-quality software on time. Students work on a large
programming team to create plans, review progress, measure quality, and
make written and oral analyses of their project.
Outcomes:
Students will experience process based development, understand the
dynamics of a professional software organization, and develop skills for
implementing software with others
COMP 331   Mathematical Foundations of Cryptography   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Theoretical Foundations: MATH 201 or COMP 363;
Programming Foundations: COMP125 or COMP150 or COMP170 or
COMP 180 or COMP/MATH 215   
This course introduces the formal foundations of cryptography and also
investigates some well-known standards and protocols, including private
and public key cryptosystems, hashing, digital signatures, RSA, DSS, PGP ,
and related topics.
Course equivalencies:  X-COMP331/MATH331   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of cryptosystems widely used to
protect data security on the internet, and be able to apply the ideas in
new situations as neededCOMP 332   Requirements Engineering   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 330   
This course aims to equip students with techniques for successful
requirements analysis and requirements engineering (RE) of software-
intensive systems. Students will learn a systematic process of developing
requirements through co-operative problem analysis, representation, and
validation.
Outcomes:
Students will learn and apply the current state of the art in requirements
engineering and a systematic method for engineering high-quality
requirements on realistic large-scale projects
COMP 333   Web Services Programming   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 313 Outcomes: An understanding of the design
space of software architecture; Proﬁciency in designing, implementing,
deploying and composing systems from web services   
Web services are building blocks for enterprise applications that use
open data exchange standards and transport protocols to exchange data
with calling clients. This course studies the architectures, frameworks,
and tools required to develop and compose web services and clients, as
well as integrate service-oriented systems with legacy systems.
COMP 335   Formal Methods in Software Engineering   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 272   
As embedded and networked systems are becoming ever more
ubiquitous, we depend increasingly on the correctness of the software
that controls such systems. This course studies the formal speciﬁcation,
veriﬁcation, and synthesis of software.
Outcomes:
An understanding of the role of formal methods in the construction of
software systems; proﬁciency in representative methods and tools, such
as UML and ESC
COMP 336   Markup Languages   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 231 or COMP 271   
This course is concerned with XML and its various component
frameworks. The core frameworks to be covered include Document
Object Model (DOM), Simple API for XML processing (SAX), the XML Path
language (XPath), and XSLT .
Outcomes:
After taking this course, students will have working knowledge of
XML and its connections to other ideas such as HTML, object models,
relational databases, and network services
COMP 337   Concurrent Programming   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 313   
Many real-world software systems rely on concurrency for performance
and modularity. This programming-intensive course covers analysis,
design, implementation, and testing of concurrent software systems.
Outcomes:
An in-depth understanding of event-based and thread-based views of
concurrency; the ability to develop concurrent software components
using suitable languages, frameworks, and design patterns; familiarity
with object-oriented modeling and development tools and test-driven
development

--- Page 325 ---
356  Computer Science
COMP 338   Server-based Software Development   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 313   
Server-based web applications and services have become part of
everyday life. This programming-intensive course covers analysis,
design, implementation, and testing of multi-tiered server-based software
systems along with typical tier-speciﬁc technologies.
Outcomes:
An understanding of software architecture and integration in the
development of multi-tiered server-based software; familiarity with object-
oriented modeling and development tools and test-driven development
COMP 339   Distributed Systems   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 313 or COMP 363 or COMP 310   
This course covers topics in modern distributed systems. This course
places special emphasis on scalability (performance), reliability/fault
tolerance, and security.
Outcomes:
After taking this course, students should understand the essential
ingredients of distributed systems and how to build distributed systems
that are resilient to transient network failures and other potential
anomalies
COMP 340   Computer Forensics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (COMP 150 or COMP 170 or COMP/MATH 215) and
(COMP 264 or COMP 317 or COMP 343)   
The course introduces the fundamentals of computer/network/internet
forensics, analysis and investigations.
Outcomes:
The student will learn computer software and hardware relevant for
analysis, and investigative and evidence-gathering protocols
COMP 341   Human-Computer Interaction   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 231 or COMP 271   
Limitations in human-computer interaction are as much due to human
factors, cognitive limits, expectations, motivations, and inertia as
technological capabilities. Systematic methods will be used to evaluate
and improve designs through both qualitative feedback and statistical,
hypothesis-driven testing on web pages, GUIs, mobile apps and many
non-traditional interfaces.
Outcomes:
Students will be exposed to a wide array of non-traditional computing
interfaces, and be able to evaluate, design and develop better human-
computer interfaces using research-based, systematic approaches
COMP 342   Introduction to Web Application Development   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 170   
An introduction to webpage development using JavaScript, jQuery and
associated client-side tools.
Course equivalencies:  X- DIGH403/CPST342/COMP342   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to create webpages using JavaScript and related
tools and protocols, and interface a webpage with a database
COMP 343   Computer Networks   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 264 or COMP 271 or instructor permission   
This course surveys packet-switched computer networks and attendant
communication protocols, using the TCP/IP protocol suite on which
the Internet is based as the primary model. Some programming may be
required.
Outcomes:
Students will understand how the Internet is constructed, how data is
routed to its destination, how connections are made, how congestion is
handled, and how security can be addressedCOMP 344   Hands-on Approach to Security & Privacy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 301   
This course will introduce students to privacy, cybersecurity
competitions, and how computers can be compromised and secured.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge and competency in the
cybersecurity and privacy ﬁelds by participating in competitions, capture
the flag, cybersecurity challenges, cybersecurity certiﬁcations, and other
cybersecurity events/activities; Students will apply what they know in a
realistic professional setting, usually working in a team
COMP 345   Internet of Things Device and Application Security   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 301   
It introduces the Internet of Things (IoT) comprising embedded devices
and cloud-based resources. The course studies concepts and techniques
used in designing and implementing IoT systems providing valuable
functionality to consumers and valuable data to organizations. The
course discusses methods for addressing related safety, security,
reliability, and privacy concerns.
Outcomes:
Ability to design and implement secure software and establish safety,
security, reliability, and privacy goals for embedded and IoT -based
systems; Ability to visualize and analyze data from an IoT system
COMP 346   Telecommunications   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 264 or COMP 271   
This course introduces the fundamental concepts of telecommunication
networks, including requirements of voice networks, analog versus digital
transmission, data link protocols, SONET , ATM, cellular phone systems,
and the architecture of the current telephone system.
Outcomes:
Students will understand how modern telephone systems work
COMP 347   Intrusion Detection and Security   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 301   
This course covers techniques and algorithms for detecting unusual
usage patterns that typically signal a break-in, including techniques for
detecting evasive or stealthy attacks. Also covered are differences in
detecting local versus network intruders. Additional topics: computer
viruses, computer security management, computer forensics.
Outcomes:
Students will learn to conﬁgure ID systems (eg SNORT) and analyze their
output; They will also understand both network-based and host-based
monitoring techniques
COMP 348   Network Security   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 301   
This course involves a discussion of network security through the
following areas which lead to an overall security posture: Security
Frameworks, Implementation Security, System Best Practices, a Case for
Centralized Conﬁguration Management, Network Security Architecture,
Standards Adherence, Risk Assessments, Testing and Review and
Application Security.
Outcomes:
An understanding of how to secure networks using encryption,
authentication, perimeter protection, restricted access policies, intrusion
detection/prevention and other security frameworks

--- Page 326 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 357
COMP 349   Wireless Networking and Security   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 301 Outcomes: Students will gain an understanding
of wireless networking, protocols, and standards and security issues   
This course will explore the wireless standards, authentication issues,
and common conﬁguration models for commercial versus institutional
installations and analyze the security concerns associated with this ad-
hoc method of networking.
COMP 351   Network Management   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 264 or COMP 271   
This course introduces the current state of the art in automated
management of computer networks, including protocols such as SNMP
and its attendant naming conventions, network management systems,
and important issues in administrative network conﬁguration.
Outcomes:
Students will become familiar with the SNMP protocol, with how large-
scale Network Management Systems operate and are conﬁgured, and
with advanced network conﬁguration
COMP 352   Computer Vulnerabilities   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 264 and COMP 301   
This course will introduce students to computer vulnerabilities at the
machine-code level, including viruses, browser vulnerabilities, buffer and
heap overflows, return-to-libc attacks and others.
Outcomes:
Describe some recent computer software vulnerabilities at the machine-
code level and how they can be leveraged into an attack; Run a virus in a
virtual-machine sandbox with appropriate monitoring
COMP 353   Database Programming   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 231 or COMP 251 or COMP 271   
This course introduces relational and object databases to support
database creation and application development. Use of commercial
database products will give a practical orientation.
Course equivalencies:  COMP353/BIOI353   
Outcomes:
Students will learn SQL, database design and application development
using the latest software tools; Students will also learn techniques for
web based data retrieval and manipulation
COMP 358   Big Data Analytics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ((Database experience: COMP 251 OR COMP 305 OR
COMP 353) AND (Analytics experience: COMP 306 OR COMP 379 OR
STAT 338 OR STAT 308)) OR permission of instructor   
In this course, large data sets will be leveraged to solve challenging
analytics problems. With more samples, analytics can use more complex
learning models to automate more feature combinations for more robust
model tuning, selection, and validation. Parallel, distributed processing
will be performed with Apache Spark and Hadoop.
Outcomes:
Python or R will be used with parallel frameworks to perform proper
model selection when testing large combinations of features, models,
hyperparameters, and ensembles, with additional emphasis on deep
learning
COMP 362   Computer Architecture   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course covers computer design from the level of digital logic and
circuit design to high-level computer organization.
Course equivalencies:  COMP 260 / COMP 275 / COMP 362   
Outcomes:
A basic understanding of how computers work at many levels and how
to use various analytical tools and techniques to design computer
componentsCOMP 363   Design and Analysis Computer Algorithms   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 272 and (MATH 132 or MATH 162)   
Theoretical design and analysis of computer algorithms may be
supplemented by small amounts of programming.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics   
Course equivalencies:  X-COMP363/BIOI363   
Outcomes:
The ability to design and analyze efﬁcient algorithms; understanding
of the necessary models and mathematical tools; understanding of a
variety of useful data structures and fundamental algorithms; exposure
to the classiﬁcation of computational problems into different complexity
classes
COMP 364   High Performance Computing   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 264 and COMP 272 Outcomes: Students will learn
how to engineer solutions to practical problems in multiprocessor
architectures and using large physical memories   
This course covers parallel architectures and parallel models of
computation. Algorithms for achieving high performance in various
computational contexts are discussed. Models such as shared memory,
message passing, and hybrid modes of computing are introduced.
COMP 366   Microcomputer Design & Interfacing   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 271 Outcomes: Students will gain a working
knowledge of interfacing techniques and design, hands-on experience
with professional interfacing hardware and software, and the ability to
document and report experimental results   
This course covers computer architecture, CPU logic, data acquisition,
signal conditioning, analog/digital conversion and computer interfacing.
Course equivalencies:  X-PHYS366/COMP366   
COMP 367   Robotics Software Development   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 271; COMP 313 recommended   
This course is an introduction to robotics and robotic software
development using humanoid robots. The course will use modern robot
platforms and provide hands on experience with robotic sensor systems,
motion and navigation, robot behavior planning and implementation.
Outcomes:
Students will explore the history of robotics, overview the theory of
autonomous robotic systems, and develop complete robot projects
COMP 369   Product Invention and 3D Printing   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores the role of products in the economy and how things
are made, including: product conceptualization and design, physical
design vs. design of things that are not physical, rapid prototyping, 3D
printing, 2D conceptualization and sketching, 3D modeling, and design
reviews.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to visualize ideas via sketching basic shapes,
create 3D models using 3D modeling software, use a 3D Printer, and give
constructive feedback in peer review sessions
COMP 370   Software Quality   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 330   
The course teaches software testing and quality control concepts,
principles, and techniques including black box and white box testing,
coverage testing, test case development, and regression testing.
Outcomes:
Students will learn how to prevent errors, how to get 'bugs' out of
software, and be able to apply this knowledge in other courses and
projects

--- Page 327 ---
358  Computer Science
COMP 371   Programming Languages   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 264 and COMP 272   
There are over two thousand programming languages. This course
studies several languages that represent the much smaller number of
underlying principles and paradigms.
Outcomes:
An understanding of key principles and paradigms underlying the
design and implementation of commonly used programming languages;
exposure to formal mechanisms for describing language syntax and
semantics; programming experience in several representative languages
COMP 373   Advanced Object-Oriented Programming   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 313 Outcomes: Proﬁciency in the use of object-
oriented languages, frameworks, and patterns; advanced understanding
of key language mechanisms such as delegation, inheritance,
polymorphism, and reflection; familiarity with object-oriented modeling
and development tools and test-driven development   
Object-orientation continues to be a dominant approach to software
development. This advanced programming-intensive course studies
object-oriented analysis, design, and implementation from a design
patterns perspective.
COMP 376   Formal Languages & Automata   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 163 or MATH 201 or MATH 212 or MATH 266   
This course introduces formal language theory, including such topics
as ﬁnite automata and regular expressions, pushdown automata and
context-free grammars, Turing machines, undecidability, and the halting
problem.
Course equivalencies:  X-COMP376/MATH376   
Outcomes:
An understanding of the theoretical underpinnings of computability and
complexity in computer science
COMP 377   IT Project Management   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 231 or COMP 251 or COMP 271   
This course is an introduction to the philosophy and practice of project
management. The course involves a student group project to investigate
and plan a 'real world' IT project that speciﬁes project objectives,
schedules, work breakdown structure and responsibilities, a written
interim report, and a ﬁnal oral and written report.
Outcomes:
Students will learn time management, work-flow management, and team
dynamics to design, implement and test large-scale software projects
COMP 378   Artiﬁcial Intelligence   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 231 or COMP 271   
This course introduces artiﬁcial intelligence theory and programming.
Outcomes:
Student will learn basic theory of artiﬁcial intelligence and be able to build
small applications based on it
COMP 379   Machine Learning   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (COMP 231 or COMP 271) and (MATH 131 or MATH 161)
and (STAT 103 or STAT 203 or ISSCM 241 or STAT 335 or PSYC 304 or
instructor permission)   
Machine learning is the process of making predictions and decisions
from data without being explicitly programmed. Topics include a variety
of supervised learning methods. Ensemble approaches are used to
combine independent models efﬁciently. Unsupervised and semi-
supervised methods demonstrate the power of learning from data
without an explicit training goal.
Outcomes:
Students in this course will learn how to apply sophisticated algorithms
to large data sets to make inferences for prediction or decision makingCOMP 380   Computer Graphics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 271   
This course introduces modern theory and practices in 3-D computer
graphics, stressing real-time interactive applications using libraries like
OpenGL.
Outcomes:
Student will learn how to program real-time interactive applications using
libraries like OpenGL
COMP 381   Bioinformatics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students will engage in the applications of computer-based tools and
database searching to better understand the ﬁelds of genetics, genomics,
evolutionary biology, and personalized medicine. Students will be
introduced to scripting programming languages for analyzing biological
data sets.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics   
Course equivalencies:  X-BIOL388/COMP381/BIOI388   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to appropriately use computer software and
databases to accurately analyze biological data and interpret the results,
applying their understanding of genetic processes
COMP 382   Compiler Construction   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 264 and 272   
This course covers the basics of writing a compiler to translate from
a simple high-level language to machine code. Topics include lexical
analysis, top-down and LR parsing, syntax-directed translation, and code
generation and optimization. Students will write a small compil er.
Outcomes:
Students will learn how a compiler is built
COMP 383   Computational Biology   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (COMP 231 or COMP 271) and COMP 381 (Equivalencies:
BIOI/BIOL 388)   
This course presents an algorithmic focus to problems in computational
biology. It is built on earlier courses on algorithms and bioinformatics.
Problems and solutions covered in this course include gene hunting,
sequence comparison, multiple alignment, gene prediction, trees and
sequences, databases, and rapid sequence analysis.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics   
Course equivalencies:  COMP383/BIOI383   
Outcomes:
Students will learn, in detail, foundational methods and algorithms in
bioinformatics
COMP 386   Methods in Computational Neuroscience   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  NEUR 101; (MATH 131 or MATH 161); and (COMP 150,
COMP 170, COMP 180, or DSCI 101) This course introduces the methods
necessary to work with computational models of neural processing in the
brain   
These methods include differential equations for neuroscience, Simulink
programming, linear algebra for neural networks, MATLAB coding, and
probability theory for neuroscience. For each method, classes will include
lectures, and computer exercises or illustrations.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Course equivalencies:  X - COMP 386/PSYC 383   
Outcomes:
Appreciation of the mathematical and computational techniques used to
understand the brain, specially differential equations to model neurons,
linear algebra used for neural networks, and probability theory capturing
brain performance

--- Page 328 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 359
COMP 387   Deep Learning   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 379 or STAT 338 or STAT 308 This course covers
key concepts of neural network algorithms as well as their applications in
computer vision and natural language processing   
The topics will include popular building blocks of neural networks
including fully-connected, convolutional, recurrent, attention, and
transformer layers.
Outcomes:
Learn how to build and analyze popular modern neural network
architectures; Learn how to design, build, and evaluate their models in the
context of practical applications related to ﬁelds such as computer vision
and natural language processing
COMP 388   Topics in Computer Science   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
This course is used to introduce emerging topics in computer science
that do not yet have a regular course number. Content of the course
varies.
Outcomes:
Understanding of an emerging area of Computer Science
COMP 389   Computational Modeling of the Brain   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 383/COMP 386 or instructor permission This course
uses a mix of lectures and computer labs to introduce computational
models of the neural processing in the brain   
These models capture single neurons and synapses, biological neural
networks, and high-level computational theory. Each class will cover the
models with lectures and computer labs, the latter using MATLAB and
Simulink.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Course equivalencies:  X - COMP 389/PSYC 384   
Outcomes:
Appreciation that brain function cannot be understood without proper
mathematical and computational frameworks, and ability to apply these
frameworks adeptly in the various domains of neuroscience from neurons
to cognition
COMP 390   Broadening Participation in STEM (Computing, Math &
Science)   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Students will learn about underrepresentation of various population
groups in STEM ﬁelds (science, technology, engineering, mathematics),
as well as some of the reasons and negative effects of this situation.
They will learn about techniques and educational materials for
ameliorating this situation and will engage in relevant service learning
activities.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students gain ﬁrst-hand experience with broadening STEM participation
and seeing how they can make a difference in the lives of other students
and contribute to national needs
COMP 391   Internship in Computer Science   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
Students work outside the classroom applying and extending their
computer science skills, typically for at least 150 hours for 3  credits. A
memorandum of understanding is required between a student, his or
her employer, and the Undergraduate Program Director, followed by ﬁnal
reports from the student and the employer.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Application of classroom skills to real-world situationsCOMP 392   Metagenomics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 282   
Exploration of next-generation sequencing technologies for assessing
microbial diversity in ecological niches.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  X-COMP 384/BIOL 392/COMP 392   
Outcomes:
Students will gain hands-on experience with metagenomic
methodologies while working in an interdisciplinary, collaborative setting
COMP 395   Professional Development & Career Growth in CompSci/IT   (1
Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing and any COMP course   
This course is designed speciﬁcally for students pursuing a deg ree in
computing-related ﬁelds, for example, Computer Science, Information
Technology, Software Engineering, and Cybersecurity. They will learn
about ways to develop themselves professionally, communicate their
strengths, expand their contacts, and advance their careers. Students
should acquire skills to professionally brand themselves, successfully
network in technical circles, perform an effective job/internship search,
and conduct themselves well in interviews.
COMP 397   Research Methods in Computer Science   (1 Credit Hour)   
Supplements CS Seminar by targeting students directly engaging in
research and facilitating contributions in ongoing projects. Progress in
outside projects tracked through milestones such as abstracts, small
fellowship-style proposals, informal updates, and outcome-oriented
goal setting. Emphasizes creating lasting impacts through establishing
project continuity and presenting posters, papers, and slide shows.
Outcomes:
Regular progress on research projects and ﬁnal presentations of results
for demonstration to department faculty and students, and potential use
at professional conferences
COMP 398   Independent Study   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
The student and a sponsoring faculty member will determine an
advanced topic for the student to work on.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Knowledge of an advanced topic
COMP 399   Computer Science Seminar   (1 Credit Hour)   
The department seminar is designed to bring together students
interested in understanding and engaging in extracurricular applications
of computer science, with a focus on ongoing research. Speakers will
include department faculty, research students, and invited outside
speakers. Students will be asked to read relevant literature and
participate in discussions.
Course equivalencies:  COMP 399H / COMP 399   
Outcomes:
Students will be exposed to a wide range of topics in computer science,
participate in discussions, and provide feedback to assess their general
understanding of the presented material
Artiﬁcial Intelligence Minor
This minor teaches the technical aspects of Artiﬁcial Intelligence,
including machine learning, deep learning, computer vision, natural
language processing, responsible and fair AI, and ethics of AI.

--- Page 329 ---
360  Computer Science (BS)
Related Programs
Minor
•Business of Applied Artiﬁcial Intelligence Minor  (p. 764)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
COMP 163 Discrete Structures 3COMP 170Introduction to Object-Oriented Programming3
COMP 271 Data Structures I 3COMP 317Social, Legal, and Ethical Issues in Computing3
COMP 329 Natural Language Processing 3COMP 378Artiﬁcial Intelligence3
COMP 379 Machine Learning 3COMP 387Deep Learning3MATH 131Applied Calculus I3Total Hours27
Note:  if this minor is declared by a CSEC-BS student (for example), this
will be only 4 extra courses or 12 credit hours.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
Course Title Hours
Semester I
COMP 163 Discrete Structures 3COMP 170Introduction to Object-Oriented
Programming3MATH 131Applied Calculus I3 Hours9
Semester II
COMP 271 Data Structures I 3COMP 317Social, Legal, and Ethical Issues in
Computing3 Hours6
Semester IIICOMP 378Artiﬁcial Intelligence3COMP 379Machine Learning3 Hours6
Semester IV
COMP 329 Natural Language Processing 3COMP 387Deep Learning3 Hours6 Total Hours27
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Learning Outcomes
•Fundamental Understanding of AI Techniques
•Hands-on Experience with AI Tools and Frameworks
•Ethical and Social Implications of AI Computer Science (BS)
The B.S. degree program in computer science provides a balance
between theoretical foundations and applied computer science with
the ultimate goal of presenting knowledge likely to be of ongoing value
throughout one’s career. The preparation of the B.S. is aimed at students
who want to pursue a career as an industry practitioner and/or as an
academic.
Among 24 civilian occupation groups analyzed by The Bureau of Labor
Statistics, Computer and Information Technology is rated third highest in
median pay and second highest in projected employment growth for the
period 2021 to 2031.
Related Programs
Major
•Cybersecurity (BS)  (p. 363)
Minor
•Computer Science Minor  (p. 362)
Combined
•Computer Science (BS/MS)  (p. 1068 )
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Major RequirementsMATH 131Applied Calculus I 13
or
4or MATH 161Calculus I
MATH 132 Applied Calculus II 13
or
4
or MATH 162 Calculus IICOMP 141Introduction to Computing Tools and Techniques3
COMP 163 Discrete Structures 3
or MATH 201 Introduction to Discrete Mathematics & Number
TheoryCOMP 170Introduction to Object-Oriented Programming3
COMP 264 Introduction to Computer Systems 3COMP 271Data Structures I3
COMP 272 Data Structures II 3COMP 310Operating Systems3
COMP 317 Social, Legal, and Ethical Issues in Computing 3COMP 363Design and Analysis Computer Algorithms3
COMP 371 Programming Languages 3STAT 203Introduction to Probability & Statistics3
COMP-BS Restricted ElectivesSelect nine credit hours from the following:9
COMP 301 Introduction to Computer SecurityCOMP 313Object-Oriented DesignCOMP 330 Software EngineeringCOMP 332Requirements EngineeringCOMP 339 Distributed Systems

--- Page 330 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 361COMP 341Human-Computer InteractionCOMP 343 Computer NetworksCOMP 353Database ProgrammingCOMP 364 High Performance ComputingCOMP 370Software QualityCOMP 379 Machine LearningPracticum CapstoneSelect six credits taken from one or more of the following:  26COMP 312Open Source Software PracticumCOMP 390 Broadening Participation in STEM (Computing,
Math & Science)COMP 391Internship in Computer ScienceCOMP 398 Independent StudyComputer Science 300-Level ElectivesCOMP 300-Level Course(s) 4Computer Science Free ElectivesSelect one of the following: 3COMP 300-Level CourseCOMP 125 Visual Information ProcessingCOMP 150Introduction to ComputingTotal Hours61-63
1By arrangement with the Undergraduate Program Director, the extra
credits from MATH 161 Calculus I /MATH 162 Calculus II  may be
applied towards the “Computer Science Free Electives” category.
2See the details of registering for these courses in the Computer
Science Department website resources. Students are encouraged to
complete these credits during junior and senior years to draw on prior
experience. Note:
•COMP 312  is a 3-credit course
•COMP 390  is limited to 3 total credits
•COMP 391  and COMP 398  will usually be limited to 6 total credits
each, but permission may sometimes be granted for more.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
COMP-BS Sample Schedule
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
COMP 150 Introduction to Computing 13COMP 141Introduction to Computing Tools and
Techniques3
MATH 131 Applied Calculus I 23CORE: Philosophical Knowledge Tier 13
CORE: College Writing Seminar 3UNIV 101First Year Seminar1 Hours16SpringCOMP 170Introduction to Object-Oriented
Programming 33
COMP 163 Discrete Structures 3MATH 132Applied Calculus II 43
CORE: Historical Knowledge Tier 1 3CORE: Ethics3 Hours15
Year 2
FallCOMP 271Data Structures I3
COMP 264 Introduction to Computer Systems 3STAT 203Introduction to Probability & Statistics 53
CORE: Theology and Religious Studies Tier 1 3CAS Language Requirement 101 level  63 Hours15
SpringCOMP 272Data Structures II3
COMP 317 Social, Legal, and Ethical Issues in
Computing3CORE: Scientiﬁc Knowledge Tier 13
CORE: Societal & Cultural Knowledge Tier 1 3CAS Language Requirement 102 level3 Hours15
Year 3
FallCOMP 363Design and Analysis Computer Algorithms3
COMP 310 Operating Systems 3COMP Free Elective1
CORE: Literary Knowledge & Experience Tier 1 3CORE: Artistic Knowledge & Experience3CORE: Philosophical Knowledge Tier 23 Hours16
Spring
COMP 371 Programming Languages 3COMP-BS Restricted Elective3
CORE: Theology and Religious Studies Tier 2 3CORE: Scientiﬁc Knowledge Tier 23CORE: Historical Knowledge Tier 23 Hours15
Year 4
Fall
COMP-BS Restricted Elective 3COMP Practicum3
CORE: Literary Knowledge & Experience Tier 2 3CORE: Societal & Cultural Knowledge Tier 23CAS Elective3 Hours15
Spring
COMP-BS Restricted Elective 3COMP Practicum3
COMP Free Elective 3

--- Page 331 ---
362  Computer Science MinorCOMP Free Elective if COMP 150 not taken (3)3CAS Elective3 Hours15 Total Hours122
1COMP 150 Introduction to Computing  will apply to COMP Free
Electives; students with prior experience in computer programming,
for example a high school course modeled on the Exploring Computer
Science or Computer Science Principles curriculum may replace this
course with a different COMP Free Elective at any time during the
program. A score of 4 or 5 on the AP CS Principles Exam will earn
actual credit for this course.
2May substitute MATH 161 Calculus I  and may use the extra credit
towards COMP Free Electives.
3A score of 4 or 5 on the AP CS A Exam will earn credit for this course.
4May substitute MATH 162 Calculus II  and may use the extra credit
towards COMP Free Electives.
5May substitute MATH 212 Linear Algebra
6Language must be completed through the 102 course level or through
an exam.
General Notes
•Credits never can be double-counted for different categories of
the requirements for the major. But a course may satisfy a major
requirement and also satisfy a University and/or College requirement
(e.g., Core, residency, Engaged Learning, Writing Intensive).
•With permission, extra credits of  MATH 161 Calculus I , MATH 162
Calculus II , or 300 level MATH, PHYS, or STAT  for double majors  can
be applied to the "Computer Science 300-Level Electives" or
"Computer Science Free Electives" categories.)
•It is usually not meaningful to combine a computing major or minor
with another, the principal exception being CCFR-MINR; see more
detail in the  double-dipping rules  (p. 350).
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Knowledge of Core Computer Science Concepts:  This includes
understanding data structures, algorithms, computer architecture,
principles of software engineering, databases, networking, and more.
The goal is to give students a comprehensive grounding in the key
ideas that underpin computer science.•Problem-Solving Skills: Graduates should be able to use their
knowledge of computer science to solve complex problems.
This includes the ability to design, implement, and evaluate a
computational system to meet a given set of requirements.
•Proﬁciency in Programming: Students should be proﬁcient in at
least one high-level programming language and have experience
with several others. They should also be familiar with the principles
of programming languages and be able to learn new languages as
needed.
•Understanding of Mathematical and Scientiﬁc Principles: Graduates
should understand the mathematical and scientiﬁc principles that
underpin computer science. This includes discrete mathematics,
probability and statistics, and more.
•Ethical and Social Implications: An understanding of professional,
ethical, legal, security, and social issues and responsibilities as they
pertain to computer science.
•Teamwork and Communication: Students should be able to work
effectively on teams to accomplish a common goal, and they should
be able to communicate their ideas and work effectively both verbally
and in writing.
•Ability to Learn Independently: As technology continually evolves,
it’s crucial that students develop the ability to learn new tools,
techniques, and concepts independently.
Computer Science Minor
Computers are extremely pervasive in the modern world, and important
connections have been established between computer science and
virtually every other ﬁeld of study. Thus, a computer science minor is a
valuable enhancement to majors in other ﬁelds, whether in the sciences,
social sciences, arts, humanities, business, etc.
More speciﬁcally focused minors are also offered in:
•Minor in Information Technology  (p. 367)
•Minor in Computer Crime and Forensics  (p. 374)
In addition, majors are offered in the interdisciplinary ﬁelds of:
•B.S. in Bioinformatics  (p. 283)
•B.S. in Mathematics and Computer Science  (p. 534)
•B.S. in Physics with Computer Science  (p. 621)
As well as the following majors:
•B.S. in Computer Science  (p. 360)
•B.S. in Cybersecurity  (p. 363)
•B.S. in Information Technology  (p. 365)
•B.S. in Software Engineering  (p. 368)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesCOMP 141Introduction to Computing Tools and Techniques3
COMP 163 Discrete Structures 3
or MATH 201 Introduction to Discrete Mathematics & Number
TheoryCOMP 170Introduction to Object-Oriented Programming3
COMP 271 Data Structures I 3

--- Page 332 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 363Select one of the following:3
COMP 125 Visual Information ProcessingCOMP 150Introduction to ComputingCOMP 180 Computing and Data Analysis for the Sciences3 credits of a 300-level COMP courseSelect one of the following: 3COMP 251Introduction to Database SystemsCOMP 272 Data Structures IICOMP 264Introduction to Computer Systems3 credits of a 300-level COMP courseOne 3-Credit 300-level computer science elective3Total Hours21
Note: COMP 391 Internship in Computer Science  is not allowed for any of
the 300-level electives.
Cybersecurity (BS)
This major grows out of the enormous importance of network computing
and the major challenges to security that these networks pose. Students
examine the architecture, properties, management, and performance
of both wired and wireless networks, including how to keep them
reliable and secure. Students gain the talents and skills necessary
for success in today’s organizations according to current industry
practices: planning, designing, implementing and administering voice
and data communication networks; assessing and implementing the
communication and security requirements of an organization in the form
of a secure communication infrastructure; functioning as an effective
member of a network and security services division in an organization.
The Bureau of Labor Statistics indicates high median pay and estimates
a 34.7% increase in the demand for information security analysts for the
period 2021 to 2031 (the highest growth rate among all computer and
information technology occupations, which group is the second fastest
growing of all BLS occupation groups).
Related Programs
Major
•Computer Science (BS)  (p. 360)
Minor
•Computer Crime and Forensics Minor  (p. 374)
•Computer Science Minor  (p. 362)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Major RequirementsCOMP 141Introduction to Computing Tools and Techniques3
COMP 163 Discrete Structures 3
or MATH 201 Introduction to Discrete Mathematics & Number
TheoryCOMP 170Introduction to Object-Oriented Programming3
COMP 264 Introduction to Computer Systems 3COMP 271Data Structures I3
COMP 301 Introduction to Computer Security 3COMP 310Operating Systems3COMP 317 Social, Legal, and Ethical Issues in Computing 3COMP 340Computer Forensics3
COMP 343 Computer Networks 3COMP 347Intrusion Detection and Security3
COMP 348 Network Security 3COMP 349Wireless Networking and Security3
COMP 352 Computer Vulnerabilities 3MATH 131Applied Calculus I 13
or
4or MATH 161Calculus I
Practicum Capstone  2Select six credit hours from the following:6
COMP 312 Open Source Software PracticumCOMP 344Hands-on Approach to Security & PrivacyCOMP 390 Broadening Participation in STEM (Computing,
Math & Science)COMP 391Internship in Computer ScienceCOMP 398 Independent StudyComputer Science Restricted ElectivesSelect seven credit hours from the following: 7CJC 354CybercrimeCOMP 272 Data Structures IICOMP 300-Level Course(s)Computer Science Free ElectiveSelect one of the following:3
COMP 125 Visual Information ProcessingCOMP 150Introduction to ComputingCOMP 300-Level 3-credit CourseTotal Hours61-62
1By arrangement with the Undergraduate Program Director, the
extra credit from MATH 161 Calculus I  may be applied towards the
“Computer Science Free Electives” category.
2See the details of registering for these courses in the Computer
Science Department website resources. Students are encouraged to
complete these credits during junior and senior years to draw on prior
experience. Note:
•COMP 312  and COMP 344  each are a 3-credit course
•COMP 390  is limited to 3 total credits
•COMP 391  and COMP 398  will usually be limited to 6 total credits
each, but permission may sometimes be granted for more.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.

--- Page 333 ---
364  Cybersecurity (BS)
CSEC-BS Sample Schedule
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
COMP 150 Introduction to Computing 13COMP 141Introduction to Computing Tools and
Techniques3
MATH 131 Applied Calculus I 23CORE: Philosophical Knowledge Tier 13
CORE: College Writing Seminar 3UNIV 101First Year Seminar1 Hours16
SpringCOMP 170Introduction to Object-Oriented
Programming 33
COMP 163 Discrete Structures 3CORE: Historical Knowledge Tier 13
CORE: Ethics 3CORE: Scientiﬁc Knowledge Tier 13 Hours15
Year 2
FallCOMP 271Data Structures I3
COMP 264 Introduction to Computer Systems 3COMP 301Introduction to Computer Security3
CORE: Theology and Religious Studies Tier 1 3CAS Language Requirement 101 level  43 Hours15
SpringCOMP 272Data Structures II3
COMP 317 Social, Legal, and Ethical Issues in
Computing3COMP 348Network Security3
CORE: Societal & Cultural Knowledge Tier 1 3CAS Language Requirement 102 level3 Hours15
Year 3
FallCOMP 343Computer Networks3
COMP 310 Operating Systems 3COMP 347Intrusion Detection and Security3
COMP Free Elective 1CORE: Literary Knowledge & Experience Tier 13CORE: Artistic Knowledge & Experience3 Hours16
Spring
COMP 340 Computer Forensics 3COMP 349Wireless Networking and Security3
CORE: Theology and Religious Studies Tier 2 3CORE: Scientiﬁc Knowledge Tier 23CORE: Historical Knowledge Tier 23 Hours15Year 4
Fall
COMP 352 Computer Vulnerabilities 3COMP Practicum (3)3
CORE: Literary Knowledge & Experience Tier 2 3CORE: Societal & Cultural Knowledge Tier 23CORE: Philosophical Knowledge Tier 23 Hours15
Spring
COMP Free Elective 3COMP Practicum3
COMP Free Elective if COMP 150 not taken 3CAS Elective3CAS Elective3 Hours15 Total Hours122
1COMP 150 Introduction to Computing  will apply to COMP Free
Electives; students with prior experience in computer programming,
for example a high school course modeled on the Exploring Computer
Science or Computer Science Principles curriculum may replace this
course with a different COMP Free Elective at any time during the
program. A score of 4 or 5 on the AP CS Principles Exam will earn
actual credit for this course.
2May substitute MATH 161 Calculus I  and may use the extra credit
towards COMP Free Electives.
3A score of 4 or 5 on the AP CS A Exam will earn credit for this course.
4Language must be completed through the 102 course level or through
an exam.
General Notes
•Credits never can be double-counted for different categories of
the requirements for the major. But a course may satisfy a major
requirement and also satisfy a University and/or College requirement
(e.g., Core, residency, Engaged Learning, Writing Intensive).
•It is usually not meant to combine a computing major or minor with
another, the principal exception being CCFR-MINR; see more detail in
the double-dipping rules  (p. 350).
•With permission, the extra credit from  MATH 161  Calculus I  or 300
level MATH, PHYS, or STAT  for double majors  can be applied to the
"Computer Science Restricted Electives" or "Computer Science Free
Elective" categories.)
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are

--- Page 334 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 365
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Understanding of Cybersecurity Fundamentals: This includes
knowledge of how to protect and defend computer systems and
networks by ensuring their availability, integrity, authentication, and
conﬁdentiality.
•Proﬁciency in Identifying and Mitigating Threats: Graduates should be
able to identify potential threats and vulnerabilities in a system, and
know how to put measures in place to mitigate them.
•Knowledge of Cybersecurity Tools and Technologies: Students should
be proﬁcient in using current tools and technologies to prevent and
detect cyber threats.
•Skills in Risk Management: This includes understanding how to
assess the risk to a system, how to quantify that risk, and how to
implement measures to manage it.
•Understanding of Legal and Ethical Issues: Graduates should
understand the legal, ethical, and professional issues involved in
cybersecurity, such as privacy concerns, intellectual property rights,
and cybercrime laws.
•Incident Response Skills: Students should be able to develop and
implement an effective incident response strategy to reduce the
impact of security breaches and network intrusions.
•Knowledge of Cryptography: Students should understand the
principles of cryptography and how it is used to secure data.
Departmental Honors
Awards
Dijkstra Award for Outstanding Academic Achievement
This award generally recognizes the single student with top academic
performance across all computer science degrees. Selection is based
on the GPA in all major courses and election by department faculty. The
award is named for Edsger W. Dijkstra (1930–2002), a Dutch computer
scientist whose 1968 letter to Communications of the ACM articulated
the need for a new programming paradigm that became “structured
programming. ”
Turing High Achievement Award
This award is typically given to the top graduating student in each
specialization area within computer science. Selection is by the election
of department faculty from among those with the highest GPAs in
computer science courses. The award is named for Alan M. Turing
(1912–1954), a British mathematician and logician who made wide
contributions to several areas which would later be named computer
science. He created the Turing Machine and the Turing Test for artiﬁcial
intelligence.
Departmental Honors
Outstanding students earn departmental honors by demonstrating top
scholastic and academic performance in the undergraduate degree
program. A student whose GPA in all major courses is at least 3.4 may
qualify by completing six additional credits of 300-level or graduate-level
computer science electives with a grade of B or higher.Grace Murray Hopper Service and Leadership Award
This award recognizes extraordinary student leadership in the
department, university, and the computer science profession. Selection
is by department faculty election. The award is named for Rear Admiral
Grace Murray Hopper (1906–1992), a remarkable woman and early
pathﬁnder in computer science. She grandly rose to the challenges of
programming the ﬁrst computers and is responsible for the ﬁrst compiler.
Note:   Where GPA computations are used as part of determining awards,
the GPAs are generally computed during the semester of graduation, and
the major GPA is generally considered unusable if more than half the
major credits have not been graded (in progress or transferred without a
grade).
Information Technology (BS)
This major prepares students who plan to design, create, and administer
large information bases used by organizations.
Enterprises have an ever-growing investment in the exploding quantity
of information, especially in web-related data, that requires increasingly
sophisticated approaches for efﬁcient access and productive use.
Students gain the talents and skills to be successful in today’s
organizations following current industry practices: planning, designing,
implementing, and administering data information and knowledge
bases that can be effectively mined; assessing the information and data
requirements of an organization and implementing these requirements
as an information system; functioning as an effective member of an
information services division in an organization.
The Bureau of Labor Statistics estimates a 16.7% growth rate in jobs
(much higher than average) for computer and information systems
managers for the period 2021 to 2031, and shows it with the highest
median annual wage among the top 5 fastest growing occupations in
each of the BLS occupation groups.
Related Programs
Major
•Computer Science (BS)  (p. 360)
•Software Engineering (BS)  (p. 368)
Combined
•Information Technology (BS/MS)  (p. 1254 )
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Major RequirementsSelect one of the following:3
STAT 103 Fundamentals of StatisticsSTAT 203Introduction to Probability & StatisticsISSCM 241 Business StatisticsPSYC 304StatisticsCOMP 141 Introduction to Computing Tools and Techniques 3COMP 163Discrete Structures3or MATH 201Introduction to Discrete Mathematics & Number
Theory
COMP 170 Introduction to Object-Oriented Programming 3COMP 251Introduction to Database Systems3

--- Page 335 ---
366  Information Technology (BS)
COMP 264 Introduction to Computer Systems 3
or COMP 271 Data Structures ICOMP 301Introduction to Computer Security3
COMP 317 Social, Legal, and Ethical Issues in Computing 3COMP 377IT Project Management3or ISSCM 349Project Management
Select six credit hours from the following: 6COMP 305Database AdministrationCOMP 306 Data MiningCOMP 343Computer NetworksCOMP 353 Database ProgrammingPracticum CapstoneSelect six credits taken from one or more of the following:  16COMP 312Open Source Software PracticumCOMP 390 Broadening Participation in STEM (Computing,
Math & Science)COMP 391Internship in Computer ScienceCOMP 398 Independent StudyElectivesSelect ten credit hours from the following including at most one of
the ﬁrst four courses:  210COMP 125Visual Information Processingor COMP 150Introduction to Computing
COMP 250 Introduction to Scientiﬁc and Technical
Communication
or ENGL 210 Business WritingCOMP 264Introduction to Computer Systems 3or COMP 271Data Structures I
COMP 272 Data Structures IIMGMT 318Organizational Development and ChangeMGMT 320 Leading and Managing TeamsMGMT 335Micro-Enterprise ConsultingMGMT 360 Values-Based LeadershipENTR 201Essentials of EntrepreneurshipENTR 311 Social EntrepreneurshipENTR 313Entrepreneurship - Global Opportunity ScanENTR 345 Entrepreneurial MarketingENTR 390Entrepreneurship Strategies - CapstoneISSCM 393 Requirements Analysis and Communication 3COMP 300 level electives  4Total Hours49
1See the details of registering for these courses in the Computer
Science Department website resources. Students are encouraged to
complete these credits during junior and senior years to draw on prior
experience. Note:
•COMP 312  is a 3-credit course
•COMP 390  is limited to 3 total credits
•COMP 391  and COMP 398  will usually be limited to 6 total credits
each, but permission may sometimes be granted for more.
2Note that some COMP 300-level electives have a prereq of COMP 271
Data Structures I  or higher, and MGMT and ENTR courses also have
prereqs.3You must take COMP 264  or COMP 271  as part of the Major
requirements. The second one can be used as an elective if taken.
4MGMT 201 Managing People and Organizations  plus ACCT 201
Introductory Accounting I  may count in place of 3 credits of major
Electives, only if ISSCM 349 Project Management  is completed to also
count toward this major.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
COMP 150 Introduction to Computing 13COMP 141Introduction to Computing Tools and
Techniques3
STAT 103 Fundamentals of Statistics 23CORE: Philosophical Knowledge Tier 13
CORE: College Writing Seminar 3UNIV 101First Year Seminar1 Hours16
SpringCOMP 170Introduction to Object-Oriented
Programming 33
COMP 163 Discrete Structures 3CORE: Historical Knowledge Tier 13
CORE: Ethics 3CORE: Scientiﬁc Knowledge Tier 13 Hours15
Year 2
FallCOMP 271 
or COMP 264Data Structures I 
or Introduction to Computer Systems3
COMP 301 Introduction to Computer Security 3COMP 251Introduction to Database Systems3
CORE: Theology and Religious Studies Tier 1 3CAS Language Requirement 101 level  43 Hours15
SpringCOMP 377IT Project Management 53
COMP 317 Social, Legal, and Ethical Issues in
Computing3ITEC-BS Restricted Elective3
CORE: Societal & Cultural Knowledge Tier 1 3CAS Language Requirement 102 level3 Hours15
Year 3
FallITEC-BS Restricted Elective3
COMP Free Elective 3

--- Page 336 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 367COMP Free Elective1
CORE: Literary Knowledge & Experience Tier 1 3CORE: Artistic Knowledge & Experience3CAS Elective3 Hours16
Spring
COMP Free Elective 3CORE: Theology and Religious Studies Tier 23
CORE: Scientiﬁc Knowledge Tier 2 3CORE: Historical Knowledge Tier 23CAS Elective3 Hours15
Year 4
Fall
COMP Practicum 3CORE: Literary Knowledge & Experience Tier 23
CORE: Societal & Cultural Knowledge Tier 2 3CORE: Philosophical Knowledge Tier 23CAS Elective3 Hours15
Spring
COMP Practicum 3COMP Free Elective if COMP 150 not taken3
CAS Elective 3CAS Elective3CAS Elective3 Hours15 Total Hours122
1COMP 150 Introduction to Computing  will apply to COMP Free
Electives:  Students with prior experience in computer programming,
for example a high school course modeled on the Exploring Computer
Science  (https://www.exploringcs.org/ ) or Computer Science Principles
(https://apcentral.collegeboard.org/courses/ap-computer-science-
principles/ ) curriculum may replace this course with a different COMP
Free Elective at any time during the program. A score of 4 or 5 on the
AP CS Principles Exam will earn actual credit for this course.
2May substitute STAT 203 Introduction to Probability & Statistics ,
ISSCM 241 Business Statistics , or PSYC 304 Statistics .
3A score of 4 or 5 on the AP CS A Exam will earn credit for this course.
4Language must be completed through the 102 course level or through
an exam  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
5May substitute ISSCM 349 Project Management
  General Notes
•Credits never can be double-counted for different categories of
the requirements for the major. But a course may satisfy a major
requirement and also satisfy a University and/or College requirement
(e.g., Core, residency, Engaged Learning, Writing Intensive).
•It is usually not meaningful to combine a computing major or minor
with another, the principal exception being CCFR-MINR; see more
detail in the  double-dipping rules  (p. 350).College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Understanding of IT Fundamentals: This includes a broad
understanding of areas such as networking, databases, website
development, information systems, and IT project management.
•Proﬁciency in Technical Skills: Graduates should be proﬁcient in a
variety of programming languages, operating systems, and hardware
conﬁgurations.
•Knowledge of Information Systems: This includes understanding
how information systems are used to support business processes,
strategic goals, and decision making.
•Problem-Solving Skills: Students should be able to analyze a problem
and identify and deﬁne the computing requirements appropriate to its
solution.             
•Project Management Skills: Students should understand the
principles of project management as they relate to IT projects,
including planning, coordination, execution, and evaluation.
•Understanding of IT Infrastructure: This includes knowledge of IT
architecture and infrastructure, such as networks, operating systems,
software applications, and data centers.
•Understanding of IT Security: Students should have a basic
understanding of the principles and best practices of information
security, including how to protect networks, systems, and data from
cyber threats.
Information Technology Minor
This minor is designed for students seeking an understanding of
important aspects of computing such as databases, networking, and/
or security, especially from a managerial viewpoint. This may be a
particularly valuable enhancement to a major in the School of Business
as well as to majors in other ﬁelds in the College of Arts and Sciences or
other divisions of the University.
Related Programs
Minor
•Computer Crime and Forensics Minor  (p. 374)
•Computer Science Minor  (p. 362)
•Data Science Minor  (p. 379)

--- Page 337 ---
368  Software Engineering (BS)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
COMP 141 Introduction to Computing Tools and Techniques 3Select one of the following:3
COMP 251 Introduction to Database SystemsCOMP 264Introduction to Computer SystemsCOMP 271 Data Structures ICOMP 170Introduction to Object-Oriented Programming3
COMP 301 Introduction to Computer Security 3COMP 377IT Project Management3or ISSCM 349Project Management
Select one of the following: 3COMP 306Data MiningCOMP 305 Database AdministrationCOMP 353Database ProgrammingCOMP 343Computer NetworksTotal Hours18
Software Engineering (BS)
With software applications of enormous size, complexity, and expense
now prevalent in diverse domains, software engineering has never
been as important a ﬁeld as it is now. Students gain necessary talents
to be successful in today’s organizations, following current industry
practices: designing and developing software; understanding and
applying software development processes and methodologies in their
work; leveraging software development tools used in the various phases
of the development life cycle, and functioning as an effective member
of a software development team or organization. Students develop their
knowledge and skill through high-level electives where they write major
projects in diverse areas such as client/server programming for the
web, distributed programming for large clusters of processors, database
programming, and markup language transformation. While working on
modern applications with current software engineering practices such
as Extreme Programming, students learn to analyze and apply good
algorithms and other relevant tools.
Related Programs
Major
•Computer Science (BS)  (p. 360)
•Information Technology (BS)  (p. 365)
Combined
•Software Engineering (BS/MS)  (p. 1368 )
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Major RequirementsSelect one of the following:3-4
MATH 131 Applied Calculus IMATH 161Calculus I 1Select one of the following: 3ISSCM 241Business StatisticsPSYC 304 StatisticsSTAT 103Fundamentals of StatisticsSTAT 203 Introduction to Probability & StatisticsCOMP 141Introduction to Computing Tools and Techniques3
COMP 163 Discrete Structures 3
or MATH 201 Introduction to Discrete Mathematics & Number
TheoryCOMP 170Introduction to Object-Oriented Programming3
COMP 264 Introduction to Computer Systems 3COMP 271Data Structures I3
COMP 272 Data Structures II 3COMP 313Object-Oriented Design3
COMP 317 Social, Legal, and Ethical Issues in Computing 3COMP 330Software Engineering3
Software Engineering Restricted ElectivesSelect nine credit hours from the following:9
COMP 332 Requirements EngineeringCOMP 335Formal Methods in Software EngineeringCOMP 370 Software QualityCOMP 371Programming LanguagesCOMP 373 Advanced Object-Oriented ProgrammingCOMP 382Compiler ConstructionPracticum CapstoneSelect six credit hours from the following:  26
COMP 312 Open Source Software PracticumCOMP 390Broadening Participation in STEM (Computing,
Math & Science)COMP 391 Internship in Computer ScienceCOMP 398Independent StudyComputer Science 300-Level ElectivesSelect ten credit hours from any COMP 300-Level Courses  310
Computer Science Free ElectiveSelect one of the following:3
COMP 125 Visual Information ProcessingCOMP 150Introduction to ComputingCOMP 300-Level Course  3Total Hours61
1By arrangement with the Undergraduate Program Director, the
extra credit from MATH 161 Calculus I  may be applied towards the
“Computer Science Free Electives” category.
2See the details of registering for these courses in the Computer
Science Department website resources. Students are encouraged to
complete these credits during junior and senior years to draw on prior
experience. Note:
•COMP 312 is a 3-credit course
•COMP 390 is limited to 3 total credits
•COMP 391 and COMP 398 will usually be limited to 6 total credits
each, but permission may sometimes be granted for more.
3A list of available COMP 300-level courses can be found here  (https://
catalog.luc.edu/undergraduate/arts-sciences/computer-science/
#coursestext ).
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of

--- Page 338 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 369
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
COMP 141 Introduction to Computing Tools and
Techniques3COMP 150Introduction to Computing 13
MATH 131 Applied Calculus I 23UNIV 101First Year Seminar1
CORE: College Writing Seminar 3CORE: Philosophical Knowledge Tier 13 Hours16
SpringCOMP 163Discrete Structures3
COMP 170 Introduction to Object-Oriented
Programming 33STAT 103Fundamentals of Statistics 43
CORE: Ethics 3CORE: Historical Knowledge Tier 13 Hours15
Year 2
FallCOMP 264Introduction to Computer Systems3
COMP 271 Data Structures I 3COMP 317Social, Legal, and Ethical Issues in
Computing3
CAS Language Requirement 101 level  53CORE: Theology and Religious Studies Tier 13 Hours15
SpringCOMP 272Data Structures II3
COMP 330 Software Engineering 3CAS Language Requirement 102 level3
CORE: Scientiﬁc Knowledge Tier 1 3CORE: Societal & Cultural Knowledge Tier 13 Hours15
Year 3
FallCOMP Free Elective1
COMP Free Elective 3CORE: Artistic Knowledge & Experience3
CORE: Literary Knowledge & Experience Tier 1 3CORE: Philosophical Knowledge Tier 23Software Engineering Restricted Elective3 Hours16
Spring
COMP 313 Object-Oriented Design 3CORE: Historical Knowledge Tier 23
CORE: Scientiﬁc Knowledge Tier 2 3CORE: Theology and Religious Studies Tier 23Software Engineering Restricted Elective3 Hours15
Year 4
Fall
CAS Elective 3COMP Practicum3
CORE: Literary Knowledge & Experience Tier 2 3CORE: Societal & Cultural Knowledge Tier 23Software Engineering Restricted Elective3 Hours15
Spring
CAS Elective 3COMP Free Elective3
COMP Free Elective 3COMP Free Elective if COMP 150 not taken3COMP Practicum3 Hours15 Total Hours122
1COMP 150 Introduction to Computing  will apply to COMP Free
Electives; students with prior experience in computer programming,
for example a high school course modeled on the Exploring Computer 
Science  (https://www.exploringcs.org/ ) or Computer Science Principles
(https://apcentral.collegeboard.org/courses/ap-computer-science-
principles/ ) curriculum may replace this course with a different COMP
Free Elective at any time during the program. A score of 4 or 5 on the
AP CS Principles Exam will earn actual credit for this course.
2May substitute MATH 161 Calculus I  and may use the extra credit
towards COMP Free Electives.
3A score of 4 or 5 on the AP CS A Exam will earn credit for this course.
4May substitute STAT 203 Introduction to Probability & Statistics  or
ISSCM 241 Business Statistics  or PSYC 304 Statistics .
5Language must be completed through the 102 course level or through
an exam  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
General Notes
•Credits never can be double-counted for different categories of
the requirements for the major. But a course may satisfy a major
requirement and also satisfy a University and/or College requirement
(e.g., Core, residency, Engaged Learning, Writing Intensive).
•With permission, extra credits of  MATH 161 Calculus I  or 300 level
MATH, PHYS, or STAT  for double majors  can be applied to the
"Computer Science 300-Level Electives" or "Computer Science Free
Electives" categories.)
•It is usually not meaningful to combine a computing major or minor
with another, the principal exception being Computer Crime and
Forensics Minor  (https://catalog.luc.edu/undergraduate/arts-
sciences/computer-science/computer-crime-forensics-minor/ ); see
more detail in the  double-dipping rules  (p. 350).
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit

--- Page 339 ---
370  Criminal Justice and Criminology
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Knowledge of Software Development Lifecycle: Students should
understand the various stages of software development, from
requirements elicitation, to design, implementation, testing, and
maintenance.
•Proﬁciency in Programming: Graduates should be proﬁcient in several
programming languages and have a deep understanding of object-
oriented design and other software paradigms.
•Software Design Skills: Graduates should be able to design,
implement, validate, and maintain software systems. This includes
the ability to work with complex software architectures and design
patterns.
•Understanding of Software Quality Assurance: This includes
knowledge of testing methodologies, debugging, and techniques to
ensure software reliability, usability, security, and performance.
•Project Management Skills: Students should understand software
project planning and management techniques. This includes
knowledge of cost estimation, risk management, project scheduling
and tracking.
•Teamwork and Communication: Similar to computer science,
students should be able to work effectively on teams and be able to
communicate their ideas and work effectively both verbally and in
writing.
•Ethical and Professional Responsibility: Graduates should understand
professional, ethical, legal, and societal responsibilities related to
software engineering.
Criminal Justice and Criminology
The Department of Criminal Justice and Criminology at Loyola
University Chicago offers several academic programs. The department's
undergraduate program  (p. 375) leads to a Bachelor of Science (BS)
degree, which introduces students to all aspects of the nation's complex
criminal justice system, while stressing individual growth and personal
attention, a hallmark of the 450-year-old Jesuit tradition that inspires
Loyola University Chicago.
Students may elect to pursue a minor  (p. 376) course of study if
they have a different major, but a strong interest in criminal justice and
criminology. Students eager to accelerate their education and expand
their career options also may choose to apply for the combined, ﬁve-year
BS/MA program  (p. 1072 ), leading to a Master of Arts (MA) in Criminal
Justice and Criminology.
Classes for the undergraduate and graduate programs are held at
Loyola's Lake Shore Campus. We look forward to considering your
application for either undergraduate or graduate study at Loyola.Undergraduate Programs
•Computer Crime and Forensics Minor  (p. 374)
•Criminal Justice and Criminology (BS)  (p. 375)
•Criminal Justice and Criminology (BS/MA)  (p. 1072 )
•Criminal Justice and Criminology/International Affairs (BS/MA)
(p. 1075 )
•Criminal Justice and Criminology Minor  (p. 376)
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Criminal Justice and Criminology (CJC)
CJC 101   Criminal Justice in a Global Context   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces students to the study of the causes and control
of crime from a global perspective. The course considers: the way crime
and criminal justice reflects social, political, and cultural forces; the
complex intersection between social inequalities and state responses to
crime; and the diffusion of criminal justice reforms based on concepts of
equality and
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science, Psychology of Crime and
Justice   
Course equivalencies:  ACCRJ 201 / CJC 101   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the st ructure
and challenges of state responses to crime from global, historical, and
interdisciplinary perspectives
CJC 201   Theories of Criminal Behavior   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will provide a detailed examination of past and present
theories of criminal behavior, placing them in a socio-historical context
and exploring their policy and practical implications.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Psychology of Crime and Justice   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of how the
speciﬁc theories of criminal behavior can be compared and evaluated,
how the theories evolved over time, and how they can be applied to
criminal justice policy and practice
CJC 202   Criminal Courts   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides students with an overview of state and federal
criminal courts and case processing, including the study of prosecutors,
defense attorneys, judges, jury decision-making, plea bargaining, and
sentencing.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Psychology of Crime and Justice, Sociolegal
Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand the functions of the state and federal
criminal courts, the actors working in those courts and their respective
roles, and the procedures for processing of criminal cases

--- Page 340 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 371
CJC 203   Policing   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the nature and purpose of policing in American
society. Topical areas include the urban police function, contemporary
U.S. police systems, principles of police organization and administration,
basic operational methodology, and efforts to professionalize police
agencies.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of changi ng role
of police in modern society and articulate the role and challenges faced
by police as it relates to the overall operation and goals of the criminal
justice system
CJC 204   Corrections   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the history, functions, and processes of
corrections. The primary focus is institutional corrections and its
evolution based on philosophies of retribution, deterrence, incapacitation,
and rehabilitation. The role and influence of community correctional
practices and policy on institutional corrections are also covered.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Psychology of Crime and Justice   
Course equivalencies:  ACCRJ 204 / CJC 204   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to identify and describe the role of institutional
corrections in society and the criminal justice system and articulate the
connection between theories regarding criminality and the purposes
of incarceration that have historically guided and continue to guide
American correctional practice historically and currently
CJC 205   Research Methods   (3 Credit Hours)   
An introduction to the logic and basic concepts of social research, with
an emphasis on both basic and applied research within criminal justice
and criminology. The course provides a basic conceptual framework for
designing, conducting, interpreting, and evaluating social research.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services, Urban Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate the capacity to effectively design,
review and interpret research to answer questions within the ﬁeld of
criminal justice and other social science disciplines
CJC 206   Statistics   (3 Credit Hours)   
An introduction to the basic concepts and techniques of statistical
analysis, with an emphasis on the study of delinquency, crime, and
program evaluation within the criminal justice system.
Knowledge Area:  Quantitative Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services   
Course equivalencies:  X-CRMJ206/SOWK391   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to effectively perform and interpret statistical
analyses and identify the appropriate use of these statistics in the
analysis of crime and criminal justice system performance
CJC 302   Juvenile Justice System   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will examine the history, theories, policies, and practices of
the juvenile justice system. It will also include a discussion of diversion
programs, child maltreatment, and gang behavior.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services, Psychology of Crime and
Justice   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the st ructure
and challenges facing the juvenile justice system as it responds to
delinquency and abuse/neglect from an historical, interdisciplinary, and
inter-agency relationship perspective, and how this differs from the adult
(criminal) justice systemCJC 310   Contemporary Police Issues   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides an in-depth examination of speciﬁc contemporary
issues in policing related to recruitment and training, education and
retention, innovations in policing strategies, police policies and practices,
professionalism and ethics.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to identify and discuss the impact that c urrent
issues in policing have on police operations, effectiveness, and police-
community relations
CJC 312   Popular Culture and the Criminal Justice System   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course will examine the interrelationship among crime, the media,
the criminal justice system, and other forms of popular culture. Topics
include media representations of crime and criminal justice, social media,
and the social construction of myths about crime and the criminal justice
system.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to (1) know the meaning of the social construction
of deviance; (2) know and be critical of the manner in which crime and
criminal justice are portrayed in the media, and their effect on public
opinions and images of the latter; and (3) analyze and evaluate the
effects of popular culture
CJC 322   Criminal Law   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to the principles underlying the deﬁnition,
constitutionality, and application of criminal laws. It includes the analysis
of court decisions regarding various state and federal crimes, and the
rules of individual responsibility and accountability for those crimes.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Psychology of Crime and Justice, Sociolegal
Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the
constitutional limitations on the construction of statutory crimes, the
elements of different crimes, and the principles governing individual
responsibility and accountability for those crimes
CJC 323   Criminal Procedure   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides an in-depth, sophisticated coverage of criminal
procedures surrounding investigations, stops, searches and seizure,
arrests, interrogations, and procedural remedies.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Sociolegal Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to identify and articulate the origin, interpretation
and application of legal procedures as they relate to matters involving the
police, and how these relate to the overall operation and effectiveness of
the criminal justice system
CJC 336   Political Violence and Crime   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course offers a thematic approach to the study of different forms
of political violence and crime, their causes and consequences, how
different types of violence and crime manifest in the present day, and how
violence is represented in popular culture.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Peace, Justice, and Conflict
Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will learn to evaluate the ways in which violence and crime are
used for political ends and assess the countermeasures taken by various
international and government agencies to combat political violence

--- Page 341 ---
372  Criminal Justice and Criminology
CJC 337   Terrorism   (3 Credit Hours)   
An analysis of different types of terrorist organizations across the globe
and of the efforts by governments to combat terrorism.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Peace, Justice, and Conflict
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC337/INTS337/CJC337   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to explain what motivates the turn to terror as a
method of struggle and to assess the morality and effectiveness of the
counterterrorism tactics adopted by various governments
CJC 338   Community-Based Corrections   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the history, purpose, and functioning of probation
and parole as well as other aspects of community-based supervision,
including: pre-trial supervision, electronic monitoring, house arrest/home
detention, day reporting centers, and other programs that provide both
supervision and treatment of offenders in the community.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to articulate the organizational structure of
community corrections programs, the roles community corrections play
in the criminal justice system, and the effectiveness and challenges
facing community corrections agencies
CJC 345   Social Justice and Crime   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100, PLSC 102, PSYC 100, SOCL 101, WSGS 101, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course examines the social injustices in the criminal justice
system's naming and sanctioning of harmful behaviors as crimes.
Discussions will unpack the values, ethics, and ideologies underlying
the current retributive system of sanctioning compared to social justice
responses to crime.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies, Psychology
of Crime and Justice, Race and Ethnicity, Sociolegal Studies   
Outcomes:
Articulate the meaning of social justice; Discuss restorative and
retributive justice
CJC 346   Mental Illness and Crime   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores the relationship of mental illness to crime and
violence. Topics include the nature, prevalence, and consequences of
mental disorder, substance use, and violence among criminal offenders,
violence risk assessment, and the institutional and other treatments for
the mentally ill offender.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Psychology of Crime and Justice   
Outcomes:
Students will know (1) the history and development of research on
mental illness and crime, (2) the various mental disorders endemic in the
criminal justice system and their relationship to crime and violence, (3)
assessment measures of the risk for violence, and (4) management and
treatment of mentally ill offender
CJC 351   Organized Crime   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course offers an introduction to the study of organized crime in U.S.
society. Emphasis is given to the history and development of traditional
organized crime in Chicago. Emerging organized crime groups are also
studied. In addition, this course offers an introduction to the concept of
transnational organized crime.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Italian American Studies, Italian Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will articulate the extent and nature of organized crime, how it
relates to other forms of criminal behavior, and the effectiveness of the
justice system's response to itCJC 352   Gangs   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the historical development of urban street gangs
with a view toward understanding their structure, characteristics,
purposes, and activities. Particular emphasis is given to the history and
development of street gangs in Chicago.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Urban Studies   
Course equivalencies:  CRMJ352/URB352   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the causes and hi story
of street gangs, the methods used to control them, and their impact on
society and the criminal justice system
CJC 353   White Collar Crime   (3 Credit Hours)   
This is a study of non-traditional crime engaged in by governmental
and corporate entities, and persons in the "white collar" professions.
It includes state political crimes, corporate violence and abuse of
power, as well as occupational, ﬁnancial, and environmental crimes, and
enforcement of laws against such crimes.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to describe the nature and extent of white collar
crime, how it differs from traditional crime, and the manner in which laws
against such crimes are enforced
CJC 354   Cybercrime   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the theory, practice, and prevention of cybercrime.
It considers how advances in technology have led to the creation of
cybercrime and new avenues for deviance. The course centers on various
forms of cybercrimes and how theories of crime can be applied to explain
and prevent cybercrime.
Outcomes:
Deﬁne the nature and scope of cybercrime, Analyze national and global
digital law enforcement efforts, Critically consider laws and policies
governing cybercrime detection and prosecution
CJC 360   Substance Use and Crime   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will explore whether substance use is related to crime,
the effect of drug trafﬁcking on communities, the policies aimed at
controlling drug use and their effectiveness, as well as the implications of
current drug policies and practices on communities and on the criminal
justice system itself.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Psychology of Crime and Justice   
Outcomes:
Students will describe the relationship between substance use and
crime, the effects of substance use and abuse on communities, and the
implications of currents drug policies and practices
CJC 365   Guns and Crime   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides a comprehensive overview of issues associated
with ﬁrearms, including their historical and contemporary use in the
commission and prevention of crime, patterns of ownership and
acquisition, and the form and effectiveness of attempts to control access
to ﬁrearms and gun-related violence in the U.S.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to apply critical thought, scientiﬁc research, and a
full understanding of the laws regulating access to ﬁrearms to objectively
assess the nature of, and governmental response to, gun violence

--- Page 342 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 373
CJC 366   Crime Prevention   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the theory and practice of crime prevention. The
course will review theories of crime and justice with speciﬁc implications
for crime prevention efforts. Students will trace the evolution of crime
prevention efforts. Most importantly, the course will review crime
prevention strategies, ranging from those designed to protect the
individual to those designed to protect society at large.
Outcomes:
Deﬁne and explain crime prevention, as an idea and as a practice; Deﬁne
and explain the three broad categories of crime prevention; Know and
explain how theories of crime and justice provide the foundation for
particular methods of crime prevention; Describe and understand the
importance of evaluation in judging the effectiveness of crime prevention
techniques; Differentiate between crime prevention techniques pitched at
different levels (individual, household, business, neighborhood)
CJC 370   Women in The Criminal Justice System   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100, PLSC 102, PSYC 100, SOCL 101, WSGS 101, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course examines four areas relative to women in the criminal justice
system: the historical view of female criminality; women as defendants
in criminal cases and women in prison; women as victims of domestic
violence and sexual assault; and women as professionals in the criminal
justice system.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-CRMJ370/WOST395/WSGS395   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to describe the extent, nature and theories of female
criminality and victimization and how this is consistent with a nd different
from male criminality and victimization
CJC 371   Victimology   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the scientiﬁc study of victimization, the
relationships between victims and offenders, the interactions between
victims and the criminal justice system, and the connections between
victims and other social groups and institutions.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies, Psychology
of Crime and Justice   
Course equivalencies:  X-CRMJ371/PAX 369   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to describe the legal, social and psychological
issues related to crime victimization, and current knowledge about the
victim-offender and victim- criminal justice system relationshipsCJC 372   Race, Ethnicity, and Criminal Justice   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100, PLSC 102, PSYC 100, SOCL 101, WSGS 101, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course examines current research and theoretical perspectives
related to race and ethnicity in crime and in criminal justice processing.
It will cover such issues as racial proﬁling, the effects of drug laws on
people of color, minority disenfranchisement from the criminal justice
system, and crime and immigration.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Human
Services, Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies, Psychology of Crime and
Justice, Race and Ethnicity, Sociolegal Studies, Urban Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-CJC/BWS/AFR/PLSC372/PAX373   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of contemporary issues
relating to - and current research and theory about - race and ethnicity
and their relationship to crime and criminal case processing
CJC 373   Intimate Partner Violence   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will address the nature and scope of intimate partner
violence, the factors that contribute to it as well as the theo ries that have
been developed to explain it. Attention will be paid to society's responses
to intimate partner violence.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services, Peace, Justice, and Conflict
Studies, Psychology of Crime and Justice, Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  CJC373/PAX374/WSGS392   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to describe the theory, extent, nature, and impact of
intimate partner violence, and how the community and criminal justice
system respond to this problem
CJC 374   Miscarriages of Justice   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course takes an interdisciplinary approach to the study of criminal
justice system error, drawing from criminology, psychology, and law,
to examine wrongful conviction and acquittal, ofﬁcial misconduct,
and discrimination. The course examines the rate of error, institutional
responses to error, and how policies exacerbate, or minimize, miscarriage
of justice.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Psychology of Crime and Justice   
Outcomes:
Critically evaluate criminal justice practices for their ability to administer
justice; identify hallmarks of miscarriages of justice; analyze policy for its
potential to prevent, or contribute to, miscarriages of justice
CJC 375   Punishment and Society   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores the dominant sociological approaches to
understanding punishment in modern society. The course also focuses
on punishment as practiced in the United States in light of these
theoretical approaches, examining the collateral consequences of
punishment and the importance of racial, gender, and sexual identities in
relation to punishment.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Race and Ethnicity   
Outcomes:
Understand the philosophical justiﬁcations for punishment; understand
social theories of punishment; critically assess the role punishment plays
in modern society; understand the consequences of punishment for
individuals, communities, and society

--- Page 343 ---
374  Computer Crime and Forensics Minor
CJC 376   Childhood Exposure to Violence   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the deﬁnitions, scope, and impact of violence and
abuse in childhood. In particular, this course introduces students to the
theoretical and empirical literatures relating to family violence, including
child physical abuse, child sexual abuse, and child neglect, as well as
child victimization in neighborhoods and schools.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services, Psychology of Crime and
Justice   
Outcomes:
To understand, critically analyze, and apply a variety of theories,
conceptual frameworks, and empirical research to explain child
victimization and the impact of exposure to violence on children
CJC 377   Psychology and Law   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101   
Introduction to the areas of overlap between psychology and the
law. Topics include roles of psychologists in legal settings, accuracy
of eyewitness testimony, jury processes, accuracy of polygraph
examinations, and issues surrounding the insanity defense.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies, Sociolegal
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X- CJC 377 / PSYC 372   
Outcomes:
Students will learn to analyze biases in the U.S. jury system, elucidate the
weaknesses of eyewitness testimony, outline the issues in the insanity
defense, understand the issues in Rape Trauma Syndrome and Battered
Spouse Syndrome, understand the methods and effects of scientiﬁc jury
selection, understand the complex issues surrounding confessions, and
view the US justice system in a social justice context
CJC 378   International Criminal Justice   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to the nature and scope of international
and transnational crime, and the emerging legal framework for its
prevention and control. It includes the history of the internationalization
of crime control and measurement, and international trends in law
enforcement, victim assistance, courts, sentencing, and corrections.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will examine globalization of crime; learn about international
crime statistics; understand the prevalence of common crimes
internationally; identify emerging crime threats; and understand
international trends in criminal justice
CJC 379   Leaving Crime Behind   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CJC 201   
This course provides students with an examination of desistance
from crime and the potential for rehabilitation in the criminal justice
system. The course discusses theories of desistance, empirical research
on desistance, and the extent to which the criminal justice system
contributes to individuals' ability to desist from crime.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to: 1) analyze desistance theories; 2) describe crime
patterns across the life course; 3) identify individual and community-
level factors associated with desistance; and 4) critique rehabilitation
approaches grounded in desistance theories
CJC 380   Introduction to Forensic Science   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides an overview of the basic principles and uses
of forensic science within the ﬁeld of criminal justice. The course is
designed for criminal justice majors emphasizing the application of the
forensic sciences in the criminal justice system.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to identify the uses and limitations of the existing
forensic science techniques used within the ﬁeld of criminal justiceCJC 390   Capstone Experience Internship   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CRMJ Majors and Minors, Psychology of Crime and Justice
Minors, Forensic Science Majors   
The purpose of this course is to enhance the student's development and
learning through observational and participatory experience in criminal
justice agencies.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to contribute in a meaningful way to the operation
of a speciﬁc criminal justice agency and be able to identify and describe
the link between their ﬁeld experience and prior courses
CJC 391   Capstone Experience Research   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Instructor approval required; major in criminal justice;
junior or senior standing; Students must complete CJC 205: Rese arch
Methods (or equivalent) and four additional CJC courses   
The course will allow students to be actively engaged in a faculty
member's research project, providing the student with an opportunity to
apply the research skills that they already have and to acquire additional
skills and knowledge about research design, statistical analysis, and
writing research presentations, briefs, or papers.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
increasing knowledge about the research process from design, analysis,
presentation, writing and policy implications
CJC 395   Special Topics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Special topics courses provide students with an opportunity to examine
various criminal justice topics not normally offered as part of the
Department's regular curriculum.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to gain an understanding of new issues co nfronting
the criminal justice system, or an advanced understanding of traditional
subjects covered in basic courses
CJC 396   Independent Study   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
This course provides students with the opportunity to examine a speciﬁc
topic in the ﬁeld of criminal justice that is currently not offered or
available.
Outcomes:
Students will gain an in-depth understanding of a speciﬁc criminal justice
topic through directed readings and independent study
CJC 399   Senior Capstone   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  6 courses in Criminal Justice and Criminology and senior-
standing only   
This course is for CJC majors slated to graduate within two semesters.
This course is a culmination of the student's study of crime and criminal
justice issues. It consists of projects aimed at integrating theory,
knowledge, and research in the context of a variety of contemporary
criminal justice problems, issues, and policies.
Outcomes:
Students will apply all that they have learned throughout their criminal
justice courses and apply this knowledge to demonstrate a sophisticated
understanding of criminal justice professions, practices, and policy
Computer Crime and Forensics Minor
Crimes in general are dealt with using preventive and detective
techniques. Computer crime is no different. With the dramatic increase
in the use of computers, networks, and the Internet, crimes committed
via computers and networks have also risen rather sharply. Computer
crime prevention falls in areas known as computer and network

--- Page 344 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 375
security. Computer crime detection is generally known as computer
forensics. Computer forensic investigations deal with white-collar crime,
telecommunications fraud, network intrusion detection, and criminal
procedures. A computer forensic expert can help solve cases in money
laundering, intellectual property, child pornography, embezzlement, e-mail
harassment, murder, and terrorism.
Computer Crime and Forensics is an interdisciplinary minor of the
Computer Science and Criminal Justice Department that will impart
knowledge to students in the areas of the criminal justice system,
courts, law and procedures, computer software, hardware, networks, and
investigative and evidence-gathering protocols.
The Computer Crime and Forensics minor does not require any prior
programming background and will appeal to those who want to use
computers to solve criminal or civil cases where the evidence is traceable
via a computer network or storage. The minor should particularly appeal
to computer science, criminal justice, and forensic sciences majors.
The minor is open for any Loyola student who has an analytical and
investigative mind and who enjoys working with computer tools.
Related Programs
Minor
•Computer Science Minor  (p. 362)
•Criminal Justice and Criminology Minor  (p. 376)
•Psychology of Crime and Justice Minor  (p. 654)
•Sociolegal Studies Minor  (p. 656)
Curriculum
Starting with Fall 2022, all of the following must be taken:
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesCJC 101Criminal Justice in a Global Context3
CJC 202 Criminal Courts 3COMP 170Introduction to Object-Oriented Programming3
COMP 301 Introduction to Computer Security 3COMP 340Computer Forensics3
COMP 347 Intrusion Detection and Security 3Choose one of the following:3
COMP 264 Introduction to Computer SystemsCOMP 317Social, Legal, and Ethical Issues in ComputingCJC 323 Criminal ProcedureCJC 354CybercrimeTotal Hours21
Criminal Justice and Criminology
(BS)
The Bachelor of Science (BS) in Criminal Justice and Criminology
introduces students to theories of criminal behavior, concepts of justice,
and all aspects of contemporary criminal justice systems, while giving
them a strong background in the liberal arts.Related Programs
Minor
•Criminal Justice and Criminology Minor  (p. 376)
Combined
•Criminal Justice and Criminology (BS/MA)  (p. 1072 )
Curriculum
Students majoring in criminal justice and criminology are required to
complete a total of 12 criminal justice and criminology courses, totaling
36 credit hours in addition to the required courses identiﬁed by Loyola
University Chicago for students to receive a Bachelor of Science (BS)
degree from the university.
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesCJC 101Criminal Justice in a Global Context3
CJC 201 Theories of Criminal Behavior 3CJC 205Research Methods 13
Select two of the following: 6CJC 202Criminal CourtsCJC 203 PolicingCJC 204CorrectionsCJC 323 Criminal ProcedureElective Courses18
Select six (6) electives from CJC 200-Level or 300-Level courses,
as well as a statistics course in the Sociology, Psychology, or
Statistics Department.  2,3orSelect ﬁve (5) electives from CJC 200-Level or 300-level courses and
2,3CJC 206StatisticsCapstoneCJC 399Senior Capstone 43or CJC 390Capstone Experience InternshipTotal Hours36
1Students double-majoring in Sociology/CJC or Psychology/
CJC may also fulﬁll the research methods requirement in Sociology
or Psychology; in such cases, students then will need to complete
seven (7) CJC elective courses.
2A list of available undergraduate courses can be found in our
Undergraduate Course Descriptions  (p. 370).
3If students take CJC 206 Statistics , then they only need to
complete ﬁve (5) CJC elective courses; however, if students fulﬁll the
statistics requirement in another department, then they will need to 
complete six (6) CJC elective courses.
4With the approval of the department, qualiﬁed students may
also complete CJC 391 Capstone Experience Research .
Suggested Sequence of Courses
Students can begin the Criminal Justice and Criminology (BS) de gree
at any point in their undergraduate studies, in consultation with
their advisor. While there is no set sequence of classes, students are
encouraged to take  CJC 101 Criminal Justice in a Global Context  early on.
Once students have declared the major, they are encouraged to  contact

--- Page 345 ---
376  Criminal Justice and Criminology Minor
their assigned Academic Advisor or the Criminal Justice  and Criminology
Department’s Undergraduate Program Director for further guidance on
how best to progress with their studies.
The following grid is a suggested sequence of courses for students who
declare a CJC major as freshmen.
Course Title Hours
Freshman
CJC 101 Criminal Justice in a Global Context 3CJC 201Theories of Criminal Behavior3 Hours6
SophomoreCJC 205Research Methods3
CJC 206 Statistics ( or equivalent ) 3Select two of the following:6
CJC 202 Criminal Courts  CJC 203Policing 
CJC 204 Corrections  CJC 323Criminal Procedure  Hours12
JuniorSelect three electives from CJC 200- or 300-level courses.9CJC 390Capstone Experience Internship 13 Hours12
SeniorSelect two electives from CJC 200- or 300-level courses.6 Hours6 Total Hours36
1CJC 390 Capstone Experience Internship  and  CJC 391 Capstone
Experience Research  can be taken by students with junior or senior
standing.  CJC 399 Senior Capstone  is restricted to students with senior
standing only.
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
The CJC undergraduate curriculum incorporates ﬁve Student Learning
Outcomes:•Theoretical Knowledge: Demonstrate a working understanding of
the theoretical knowledge base in criminology and criminal justice.
Students will demonstrate knowledge of the social, political, and
historical foundations of the ﬁeld, the workings of the criminal justice
system and its related agencies, and the theories that seek to explain
the behavior of both the system and its actors. Students will analyze
issues and problems that confront the system and its actors as well
as articulate strategies to ameliorate these problems.
•Critical Thinking Skills: Critically analyze criminology and criminal
justice issues utilizing theoretical, methodological, and statistical
bases. Students completing the major will demonstrate the ability
to critically and creatively apply criminological theory, research
methodologies, and empirical/statistical knowledge to analyze
issues, policies, and practices in criminal justice.
•Application to Real-World Situations: Apply learned terminology
and theory to real world situations that both relate to and expand
outside the ﬁelds of criminology and criminal justice. A signiﬁcant
focus of Loyola’s mission is on developing within of its students the
capacity for leadership in the service of others. Consistent with that
goal, the CJC program provides students with the knowledge, skills,
and competency to become ethical and innovative criminal justice
practitioners, scholars, and global citizens. It also provides students
with opportunities for civic engagement related to the criminal justice
system and to its actors.
•Critical Research Skills: Apply acquired research and statistical skills
to evaluate the quality of scholarly work and its contribution to the
ﬁelds of criminology and criminal justice. The learning outcome of
research skill acquisition is an integral component of any degree
in the social and natural sciences. Criminal justice professionals
and scholars are now expected to integrate a broad range of
methodologies into their practices.
•Communication Skills: Communicate effectively, in oral and written
form, understanding and analyses of criminology and criminal
justice issues. Students completing the program will be able to
communicate effectively about criminal justice issues in both
oral and written forms. In this endeavor, students are encouraged
to appreciate and demonstrate sensitivity toward the diversity
of communication norms practiced by people of varying gender,
age, race, socio-economic, ethnic, sexual orientation, and cultural
backgrounds.
Criminal Justice and Criminology
Minor
Students majoring in other disciplines have the opportunity to minor in
criminal justice and criminology. Any student minoring in criminal justice
and criminology must complete CJC 101 Criminal Justice in a Global
Context , two of six core criminal justice or criminology focus areas, and
three other elective courses totaling 18 credit hours.
Related Programs
Major
•Criminal Justice and Criminology (BS)  (p. 375)
Minor
•Computer Crime and Forensics Minor  (p. 374)
•Psychology of Crime and Justice Minor  (p. 654)
•Sociolegal Studies Minor  (p. 656)

--- Page 346 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 377
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesCJC 101Criminal Justice in a Global Context3
Select at least two of the following: 6CJC 201Theories of Criminal BehaviorCJC 202 Criminal CourtsCJC 203PolicingCJC 204 CorrectionsCJC 322Criminal LawCJC 323 Criminal ProcedureElective CoursesSelect three (3) electives from CJC 200- or 300- level courses.  19Total Hours18
1A list of available undergraduate courses can be found in our
Undergraduate  Course Descriptions  (p. 2504 ).
Learning Outcomes
The CJC undergraduate curriculum incorporates ﬁve Student Learning
Outcomes:
•Theoretical Knowledge: Demonstrate a working understanding of
the theoretical knowledge base in criminology and criminal justice.
Students will demonstrate knowledge of the social, political, and
historical foundations of the ﬁeld, the workings of the criminal justice
system and its related agencies, and the theories that seek to explain
the behavior of both the system and its actors. Students will analyze
issues and problems that confront the system and its actors as well
as articulate strategies to ameliorate these problems.
•Critical Thinking Skills: Critically analyze criminology and criminal
justice issues utilizing theoretical, methodological, and statistical
bases. Students completing the major will demonstrate the ability
to critically and creatively apply criminological theory, research
methodologies, and empirical/statistical knowledge to analyze
issues, policies, and practices in criminal justice.
•Application to Real-World Situations: Apply learned terminology
and theory to real world situations that both relate to and expand
outside the ﬁelds of criminology and criminal justice. A signiﬁcant
focus of Loyola’s mission is on developing within of its students the
capacity for leadership in the service of others. Consistent with that
goal, the CJC program provides students with the knowledge, skills,
and competency to become ethical and innovative criminal justice
practitioners, scholars, and global citizens. It also provides students
with opportunities for civic engagement related to the criminal justice
system and to its actors.
•Critical Research Skills: Apply acquired research and statistical skills
to evaluate the quality of scholarly work and its contribution to the
ﬁelds of criminology and criminal justice. The learning outcome of
research skill acquisition is an integral component of any degree
in the social and natural sciences. Criminal justice professionals
and scholars are now expected to integrate a broad range of
methodologies into their practices.
•Communication Skills: Communicate effectively, in oral and written
form, understanding and analyses of criminology and criminal
justice issues. Students completing the program will be able to
communicate effectively about criminal justice issues in bothoral and written forms. In this  endeavor, students are encouraged
to appreciate and demonstrate sensitivity toward the diversity
of communication norms practiced by people of varying gender,
age, race, socio-economic, ethnic, sexual orientation, and cultural
backgrounds.
Data Science
Data Science
Over the last several decades there has been an explosion of data in
nearly every ﬁeld imaginable including business, marketing, sports, and
scientiﬁc ﬁelds such as medicine, genetics, and neuroscience. As a
result of this deluge of data, the demand for individuals with the skills to
manage, analyze, and communicate results based on large amounts of
data are as high as they have ever been.
Become a data scientist and shape the future of the world!
Data Science is a multi-disciplinary ﬁeld combining techniques from
mathematics, computer science, and statistics to organize, analyze,
visualize, and extract useful information from data. The ﬁeld developed
in response to the deluge of data present in our daily lives in the
21st century, and the high demand for workers and researchers who
understand all parts of the data analysis cycle from managing, storing,
and cleaning data, to statistical analysis, machine learning, and big data
techniques, and the ability to communicate their results effectively to
others.
At Loyola University Chicago, there are many options for you for your
Data Science education. At the undergraduate level students can choose
to major or minor in Data Science, and at the graduate level students can
pursue a Master's Degree (M.S.) in Data Science with an option between
thesis track and non-thesis track. In addition, undergraduate students
have the option to pursue a Bachelor's and Master's degree in ﬁve total
years through the 4+1 program.
Engage in innovative graduate research
Students on the thesis track or who are funded will engage in research
while in our MS in Data Science program. Graduates will engage in
research with faculty and other graduate students from Data Science
and across other disciplines such as applied statistics and computer
science. Learn more on our Graduate Research  (https://www.luc.edu/
math/msappliedstat/outcomesjobswithstatisticsdegreefromloyola/
graduateresearch/ ) page.
Undergraduate Programs
•Data Science (BS)  (p. 378)
•Data Science (BS/MS)  (p. 1080 )
•Data Science/Applied Statistics (BS/MS)  (p. 1083 )
•Data Science/Mathematics (BS/MS)  (p. 1086 )
•Data Science Minor  (p. 379)
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.

--- Page 347 ---
378  Data Science (BS)
Data Science (DSCI)
DSCI 101   Fundamentals of Modern Data Science with R   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course is designed to be an introduction to the basics of data
science with R. Students will learn the very basics of data science and
introductory programming skills for working with data.
Outcomes:
Students will learn basic programming skills for working with different
types of data as well as data visualization, data wrangling, and data
management practices
DSCI 399   Data Science Internship   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  DSCI internship coordinator and DSCI program director
consent required   
This course provides data science students with an opportunity to apply
the knowledge obtained through their previous coursework as well as
obtain course credits by working on data science projects through paid or
unpaid internships. All projects for this course must be accompanied by a
written form to be ﬁlled out by the student and their internship supervisor,
and approved by the data science internship coordinator (DSIC). Students
will receive 1 credit hour for every 50 hours worked at the approved
internship for a maximum of 3 credit hours. Students taking this course
will fulﬁll their data science capstone requirement.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
The ability to manage large data sets in preparation for data science
analysis; The ability to perform a data science analysis from beginning to
end while adhering to the principles of reproducible research; The ability
to program in both the R and Python programming languages
Data Science (BS)
Students earning a BS in data science will gain a wide variety of skills
needed to work with many different types of data, and to analyze,
visualize, and extract useful information from data in a variety of
ways. They will apply those skills in various contexts, especially during
their capstone consulting class. The program includes courses from
Mathematics, Statistics and Computer Science.
Related Programs
Minor
•Data Science Minor  (p. 379)
Combined
•Data Science (BS/MS)  (p. 1080 )
•Data Science/Applied Statistics (BS/MS)  (p. 1083 )
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Math RequirementsMATH 161Calculus I4
MATH 162 Calculus II 4MATH 212Linear Algebra3
STATS RequirementsSTAT 203Introduction to Probability & Statistics3
STAT 308 Applied Regression Analysis 3STAT 310Categorical Data Analysis3
Select six credits of STAT 300-level electives  16Computer Science RequirementsCOMP 141 Introduction to Computing Tools and Techniques 3COMP 215 /
MATH 215Object Oriented Programming with Mathematics3
COMP 231 Data Structures & Algorithms for Informatics 3COMP 353Database Programming3
Select six credits of COMP 300-level electives  26Data Science CoreCOMP 317 Social, Legal, and Ethical Issues in Computing 3DSCI 101Fundamentals of Modern Data Science with R3
STAT 338 Predictive Analytics 3
or COMP 379 Machine LearningCapstoneCOMP 358 Big Data Analytics 3Select one of the following:3
DSCI 399 Data Science Internship 3STAT 370Data Science ConsultingTotal Hours59
1Excluding STAT 335  and STAT 337 .
2Excluding COMP 391 .
3Subject to approval by the Data Science Internship Coordinator.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
DSCI 101 Fundamentals of Modern Data Science
with R3MATH 161Calculus I4 Hours7
SpringCOMP 141Introduction to Computing Tools and
Techniques3MATH 162Calculus II4 Hours7
Year 2
Fall
MATH 212 Linear Algebra 3COMP 215 /
MATH 215Object Oriented Programming with
Mathematics3 Hours6
SpringCOMP 231Data Structures & Algorithms for
Informatics3STAT 203Introduction to Probability & Statistics3 Hours6

--- Page 348 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 379
Year 3
Fall
STAT 308 Applied Regression Analysis 3COMP 353Database Programming3 Hours6
SpringCOMP 300-level Course3
STAT 300-level Course 3COMP 317Social, Legal, and Ethical Issues in
Computing3 Hours9
Year 4
FallSTAT 388 
or COMP 379Topics 
or Machine Learning3
STAT 370 Data Science Consulting 3STAT 300-level Course3 Hours9
SpringCOMP 358Big Data Analytics3
STAT 310 Categorical Data Analysis 3COMP 300-level Course3 Hours9 Total Hours59
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•The ability to manage large data sets in preparation for data science
analysis 
•A working knowledge of traditional statistical techniques and the
ability to apply these methods to a wide array of real-world problems 
•The ability to perform a data science analysis from beginning to end
while adhering to the principles of reproducible research  
•The ability to program in both the R and Python programming
languagesData Science Minor
Students earning a minor in data science will gain foundational skills
needed to work with many different types of data, and to analyze,
visualize, and extract useful information from data in a variety of
ways. The program includes courses from Mathematics, Statistics and
Computer Science.
Related Programs
Major
•Data Science (BS)  (p. 378)
Combined
•Data Science (BS/MS)  (p. 1080 )
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesChoose one of the following MATH sequences:6-8
MATH 161 
& MATH 162Calculus I 
and Calculus IIMATH 131 
& MATH 132Applied Calculus I 
and Applied Calculus IIDSCI 101 Fundamentals of Modern Data Science with R 3STAT 203Introduction to Probability & Statistics3
STAT 308 Applied Regression Analysis 3COMP 141Introduction to Computing Tools and Techniques3
MATH 215 /
COMP 215Object-Oriented Programming with Mathematics 3COMP 231Data Structures & Algorithms for Informatics3
STAT 338 Predictive Analytics 3or COMP 379Machine LearningTotal Hours27-29
Suggested Sequence of Courses
Course Title Hours
Year 1
FallMATH 161 
or MATH 131Calculus I 
or Applied Calculus I4 Hours4
SpringMATH 162 
or MATH 132Calculus II 
or Applied Calculus II4 Hours4
Year 2
FallDSCI 101Fundamentals of Modern Data Science
with R3 Hours3
SpringCOMP 141Introduction to Computing Tools and
Techniques3 Hours3

--- Page 349 ---
380  Economics
Year 3
Fall
STAT 308 Applied Regression Analysis 3COMP 215 /
MATH 215Object Oriented Programming with
Mathematics3 Hours6
SpringSTAT 203Introduction to Probability & Statistics3COMP 231Data Structures & Algorithms for
Informatics3 Hours6
Year 4
FallSTAT 338 
or COMP 379Predictive Analytics 
or Machine Learning3 Hours3 Total Hours29
Learning Outcomes
•The ability to manage data sets in preparation for data science
analysis 
•A working knowledge of traditional statistical techniques and the
ability to apply these methods to a wide array of real-world problems 
•The ability to program in both the R and Python programming
languages
Economics
The Department of Economics is housed within Loyola University
Chicago's Quinlan School of Business. Loyola University Chicago offers
two undergraduate programs in economics. These programs will equip
you with knowledge of principles, theories, and concepts of economics
and business, which will hep you to become a responsible and successful
leader in your chosen ﬁeld. Our students who continue their education are
accepted at many top universities.
•Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) in Economics  (p. 765)
•Bachelor of Arts (BA) in Economics through the College of Arts and
Sciences  (p. 382)
Undergraduate Programs
•Economics (BA)  (p. 382)
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.Economics (ECON)
ECON 201   Principles of Microeconomics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100, PLSC 102, PSYC 100, SOCL 101, WSGS 101, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course is an introduction to demand and supply, consumer choice,
price analysis in alternative industrial organizations, and the distribution
of income.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  ECON201/201H/ACECO201/CPST243   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to think critically about price formation  in different
market structures, and how prices, household incomes and income
distribution in a diverse society are determined with interpretations
based on the concepts of opportunity costs and decision making under
uncertainty
ECON 201H   Principles of Microeconomics - Honors   (3 Credit Hours)   
Requirement: ANTH 100, PLSC 102, PSYC 100 or SOCL 101 for students
admitted to Loyola University for Fall 2012 or later. No requirement for
students admitted to Loyola prior to Fall 2012 or those with a declared
major or minor in the Department of Anthropology, Department of
Criminal Justice, Department of Economics, Department of Psychology,
Department of Political Science, the Department of Sociology, Human
Services or the School of Nursing. Restricted to SBA honors students or
Honors students. This course is an introduction to demand and supply,
consumer choice, price analysis in alternative industrial organizations,
and the distribution of income.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  ECON201/201H/ACECO201/CPST243   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to think critically about price formation  in different
market structures, and how prices, household incomes and income
distribution in a diverse society are determined with interpretations
based on the concepts of opportunity costs and decision making under
uncertainty
ECON 202   Principles of Macroeconomics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100, PLSC 102, PSYC 100, SOCL 101, WSGS 101, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course is an introduction to national product, its components, money
and the real sectors and business fluctuations.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  ECON202/ECON202H/ACECO202/245   
Outcomes:
The students will be able to think critically about the economic
environment of the nation and to measure growth, unemployment,
inflation, ﬁscal and monetary policies of the government, to ultimately
understand economic stability and the welfare of the individual citizen
ECON 202H   Principles of Macroeconomics - Honors   (3 Credit Hours)   
Restricted to SBA honors students or Honors students. This course is
an introduction to national product, its components, money and the real
sectors and business fluctuations.
Course equivalencies:  ECON202/ECON202H/ACECO202/245   
Outcomes:
The students will be able to think critically about the economic
environment of the nation and to measure growth, unemployment,
inflation, ﬁscal and monetary policies of the government, to ultimately
understand economic stability and the welfare of the individual citizen

--- Page 350 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 381
ECON 303   Intermediate Microeconomics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing; minimum grade of C- in ECON 201
or 201H; ECON 202 or 202H; and one of the following: MATH 130,
MATH 131, or MATH 161   
This course is a detailed study of consumer and ﬁrm behavior, market
structures, and the elementary propositions concerning welfare
economics.
Course equivalencies:  ECON303/303H   
Outcomes:
The students will develop analytical skills to understand and predict
consumer and ﬁrm behavior, understand the underlying pinning of
antitrust legislation and dynamic market strategies
ECON 304   Intermediate Macroeconomics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing; minimum grade of C- in ECON 201
or ECON 201H; ECON 202 or ECON 202H; and one of the following:
MATH 130, MATH 131, or MATH 161   
This course develops the framework used by economists in government,
business and academia to analyze the key determinants of economic
growth, the business cycle, unemployment, inflation, the level of interest
and exchange rates, as well as explaining how all these variables are
influenced by monetary and ﬁscal policy.
Outcomes:
The students are able to understand and critically analyze business
cycles, ﬁnancial market fluctuations, and to study inflation and
unemployment policies
ECON 320   Urban Economics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing, minimum grade of "C-" in ECON 201
and 202   
This course analyzes the economic role and functioning of cities and
examines urban issues such as real estate markets, transportation,
economic development, and crime.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Urban Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ECON320/URB320   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the economic forces that shape urban
agglomerations; Students will understand the economic and ethical
trade-offs of various urban economic policies; They will be able to think
critically about the economic forces that make a city grow and contract
over time
ECON 323   International Economics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing, minimum grade of "C-" in ECON 201
and 202   
This course analyzes microeconomic and macroeconomic theories
of global trade; balance of payments, adjustment problems and the
international monetary system.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, International Business   
Course equivalencies:  X-ECON323/INTS323   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate the ability to critically apply
microeconomic and macroeconomic concepts to the understanding of
international economic phenomena/problems; This course emphasizes
the role of economic leadership to promote peace and justice in a global
diverse worldECON 324   International Monetary Relations   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing, minimum grade of "C-" in ECON 201
and 202   
Examination of the operation of the international monetary system and
an analysis of the determination of currency flows between countries,
with topics of balance of payments statements, currency flows between
countries, determination of exchange rates, and international liquidity
problems.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, International Business   
Course equivalencies:  X-ECON324/INTS324   
Outcomes:
Student will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the operation of
the international currency market and be able to analyze exchange rates
with an emphasis on international liquidity and currency problems, and
risk management of currency fluctuations
ECON 325   Economics of Growth & Development   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing, minimum grade of "C-" in ECON 201
and 202   
This course describes and analyzes the problems and policy issues
facing developing countries and the third world with respect to their
economic and social policies and programs.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, International Business   
Course equivalencies:  X-ECON325/INTS325   
Outcomes:
The students are trained to evaluate the economic conditions that are
conducive to economic growth and critically assess ethical arguments as
they relate to growth, trade, and poverty in emerging countries; The role of
leadership is emphasized
ECON 327   American Economic & Business History   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing, minimum grade of "C-" in ECON 201
and 202   
This course emphasizes the evolution and the role of past business
leaders of the American economy from the colonial times to the present,
emphasizing the entrepreneurs and the environments in which they
operated. Economic and business change in the period 1865-1914
receives particular attention, as do the enterprises of Chicago-area
entrepreneurs.
Outcomes:
Students learn the skills required of entrepreneurs and business leaders
and their contribution to society; Students will develop an awareness
of the historical dynamics that produced the current economy, and how
its institutions evolved and the importance of markets in allocating
resources
ECON 328   Environmental Economics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing, minimum grade of "C-" in ECON 201   
This course applies economic theory to environmental and natural
resource problems and policies, investigates the role economic incentives
play, and discusses externalities, property rights, common property
problems, pollution and pollution control, and renewable and non-
renewable resource management.
Course equivalencies:  X-ECON328/ESP 328   
Outcomes:
Students will understand that environmental problems are fundamentally
economic problems that come about because there is a market failure
(eg, an externality or public good) and that environmental problems have
economic solutions

--- Page 351 ---
382  Economics (BA)
ECON 329   Health Economics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing and a minimum grade of "C-" in
ECON 201   
This course provides an understanding of the unique economic
complexities of the health care industry and individual health behaviors.
Relying on economic principles of scarcity, efﬁciency, productivity,
and market behavior, demand and supply of health care, the role of
government in determining health care policy, and medical practices are
explored.
ECON 334   Economics of Government Expenditures & Taxation   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing, minimum grade of "C-" in ECON 303
and 304   
This course is an analysis of taxation and expenditure, instruments and
policies as they relate to the allocative, distributive, and stabilization
functions of government and society and ethical responsibilities of each.
Outcomes:
The student are able to understand and analyze public policy issues,
speciﬁcally as it relates to the voting process, size of government, tax
policy debates, and long-term problems of transfer payments in an aging
society
ECON 336   Monetary and Fiscal Policy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing, minimum grade of "C-" in ECON 201,
202 and 304   
This course uses macroeconomics to critically analyze the evolution of
monetary and ﬁscal policy from the late 19th century to the present as
well as current trends and topics relating to monetary and ﬁscal policy.
Outcomes:
Students will develop critical economic thinking skills as they apply
macroeconomic theory to historical events and discuss the potential
future paths of the world economy and for assessing the leadership
role of the government and Federal Reserve System in stabilizing the
domestic and world economy
ECON 346   Econometrics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing; minimum grade of "C-" in ISSCM 241
or ISSCM 241H or STAT 103; ECON 202; ECON 303; and MATH 130 or
MATH 131 or MATH 161   
This course teaches students how to use statistical tools to evaluate
hypotheses about economic models.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to interpret and critically analyze quantitative
information related to economics; Students will understand regression
analysis and understand how to use it to test economic models and
to measure important economic parameters, and to predict economic
relationships
ECON 360   Labor Economics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing, minimum grade of "C-" in ECON 303   
This course is an intensive examination of the market for labor services,
and discusses wage determination, occupational and earnings
differentials, diversity, investments in education, collective bargaining,
and the ethical implications of labor market inequality.
Outcomes:
Students will gain a broad understanding of how economists study
labor market issues and outcomes, and be able to use critical economic
reasoning to better appreciate such issues as labor force participation
decisions, human capital, and the variation in wages across individualsECON 370   Pricing & Industrial Organization   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing, minimum grade of "C-" in ECON 303   
This course investigates ﬁrm behavior, strategies and market outcomes
in settings of less than perfect competition.
Outcomes:
Students learn to evaluate various strategies both in terms of ﬁrm
proﬁtability as well as consumer surplus
ECON 395   Independent Study in Economics   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing, instructor and dean permission
required   
Student will conduct in-depth research or reading, initiated by the student
and jointly developed with a faculty member, into a specialized area of
Economics not otherwise covered by department course offerings.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate in-depth understanding of a
specialized area or topic in Economics
ECON 399   Special Topics in Economics   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing   
Scheduled classes are offered on an ad hoc basis. Speciﬁc titles,
prerequisites and content will vary.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of specialized topics
not otherwise covered by department regular course offerings
Economics (BA)
The BA in Economics will equip you with knowledge of principles,
theories, and concepts of economics and business, which will he lp you
to become a responsible and successful leader in your chosen ﬁeld.
Our students who continue their education are accepted at many top
universities.
Related Programs 
Major
•Economics (BBA)  (p. 765)
Minor
•Economics Minor  (p. 767)
Curriculum
CAS BA Degree Requirements
BA degree:  In addition to fulﬁlling courses in the Core Curriculum and
general electives, students enrolled in the College of Arts and Sciences
must complete 10 economics courses, calculus and statistics:
Code Title Hours
Major RequirementsMATH 130Business Calculus3-4or MATH 131Applied Calculus Ior MATH 161Calculus I
STAT 103 Fundamentals of Statistics (or equivalent) 3ECON 201Principles of Microeconomics3
ECON 202 Principles of Macroeconomics 3ECON 303Intermediate Microeconomics3
ECON 304 Intermediate Macroeconomics 3Choose six (6) 300-level Economics courses:18
ECON 320 Urban Economics

--- Page 352 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 383ECON 323International EconomicsECON 324 International Monetary RelationsECON 325Economics of Growth & DevelopmentECON 327 American Economic & Business HistoryECON 328Environmental EconomicsECON 329 Health EconomicsECON 334Economics of Government Expenditures &
TaxationECON 336 Monetary and Fiscal PolicyECON 346EconometricsECON 360 Labor EconomicsECON 370Pricing & Industrial OrganizationECON 399 Special Topics in Economics 1MATH 360Introduction to Game TheoryTotal Hours36
1Only one ECON 399 Special Topics in Economics  class is allowed to
count for this major.
Students wishing to pursue doctoral study in economics are advised
to take additional mathematics courses including the calculus course
sequence ( MATH 161 Calculus I , MATH 162 Calculus II  and  MATH 263
Multivariable Calculus ); MATH 212 Linear Algebra ; and two 300-
level mathematical statistics courses ( STAT 304 Introduction to
Probability , STAT 305 Introduction to Mathematical Statistics ).
Students should consult with their economics advisor about completing
mathematics courses.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework. An individual student's completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study. Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
ECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics 3MATH 131Applied Calculus I3 Hours6
SpringECON 202Principles of Macroeconomics3STAT 103Fundamentals of Statistics3 Hours6
Year 2
FallECON 303Intermediate Microeconomics3 Hours3
SpringECON 304Intermediate Macroeconomics3 Hours3
Year 3
Fall
ECON Elective 3ECON Elective3 Hours6
SpringECON Elective3ECON Elective3 Hours6
Year 4
FallECON Elective3 Hours3
SpringECON Elective3 Hours3 Total Hours36
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Analysis of real-world economic policies
•Principles of economics reasoning
•Business and professional presentations
•Business ethics and the market economy
•Graphical and quantitative modelings
Engineering
Loyola Engineering enrolled its ﬁrst students in Fall 2015. We obtained
our ABET accreditation in Fall 2020. A hallmark of our program is our
emphasis on active learning. Rather than delivering a full lecture in each
course, each professor provides a mini-lecture to go over ﬁne points of
the homework. To facilitate active learning, there are never more than 24
students in any Engineering course section. Active learning increases
the retention of female students, students of color, and ﬁrst-generation
students; and is one aspect of our social justice-informed program. We
are proud to be the ﬁrst Engineering program in the U.S. to fully integrate
social justice and Engineering in our curriculum.
Undergraduate Programs
The BS Engineering program has three (3) specializations:

--- Page 353 ---
384  Engineering
•Engineering with a Biomedical Engineering Specialization (BS)
(p. 387)
•Engineering with a Computer Engineering Specialization (BS)
(p. 389)
•Engineering with an Environmental Engineering Specialization (BS)
(p. 391)
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Engineering (ENGR)
ENGR 100   Engineering Design Fundamentals   (1 Credit Hour)   
Restricted to students transferring into Engineering. This course provides
an introduction to engineering design for students transferring into
Engineering, who have completed an external Engineering Graphics
course. Major topics include engineering estimation, 2k factorial design,
teamwork, engineering ethics, and requirement speciﬁcations.
Outcomes:
Demonstration of proﬁciency in engineering design
ENGR 101   Introduction to Engineering Design   (4 Credit Hours)   
Restricted to Engineering students. This course is the ﬁrst of four
engineering design courses in the Engineering curriculum. Major
topics in this course include engineering estimation, three dimensional
computer-aided design, 2k factorial design, teamwork, engineering ethics,
requirement speciﬁcations, and design iteration.
Outcomes:
1) Demonstration of proﬁciency in engineering design; 2) Application of
teamwork principles to an open-ended design project
ENGR 102   Engineering Freshman Seminar   (1 Credit Hour)   
This seminar offers a shared learning experience with an assignment of
a service project and exposure to Industrial Advisory Board members and
Loyola administrators and faculty. In addition to providing intellectual
enhancement to the program, these seminars give us a time and place to
regularly interact. This class is restricted to Engineering freshman.
Outcomes:
Encourage bonding through a service project, stimulate thoughtful
interaction, provide connections with the faculty, and connect to the
broader industry community
ENGR 201   Experiential Engineering   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 170 and (PHYS 112K or PHYS 122) (each with
minimum C-); Corequisite: CHEM 171   
This course introduces students to environmental, biomedical and
computer engineering-based sensors and signal analysis techniques.
Major topics in this course include an introduction to common
biomedical sensors, electronics, signals, sampling, analog-to-digital
conversion, c programming, microcontroller system architectures, and
microcontroller programming.
Outcomes:
Provide an experiential environment to learn about instrumentation
and sensors in biomedical, computer and environmental engineering;
Introduce complex devices and systems to understand, measure and
analyze signalsENGR 311   Engineering Systems I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENGR 201 with a minimum grade of C-; Restricted to
Applied Mathematics and Engineering majors; Concurrent enrollment in
MATH 266 (Engineering majors only)   
ENGR 311 covers the fundamentals of signal and system analysis,
focusing on representations of discrete-time and continuous-time signals
and representations of linear, time-invariant systems. Major topics in this
course include convolution, Fourier series, Fourier Transform, and unit
impulse and unit step functions. Applications are drawn broadly from
engineering and physics.
Outcomes:
Understand basic concepts of discrete and continuous time signals;
Employ Fourier analysis to analyze simple LTI systems; Proﬁciently use
MATLAB as a numerical analysis tool
ENGR 312   Engineering Systems II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENGR 311, ENGR 321, (MATH 264 or MATH 266), and
COMP 170   
Introduces numerical methods and control systems theory. Students
are exposed to root ﬁnding, numerical integration and differentiation,
numerical solutions to ODEs, curve ﬁtting and regression techniques,
classical control system theory methods (Laplace transforms and
transfer functions, root locus design, Routh-Hurwitz stability analysis,
Bode and Nyquist plots) and the state variable method (controllability and
observability). Employ the state variable method.
Outcomes:
Understand the concepts of numerical methods, their strengths and
weaknesses; Use MATLAB as a numerical analysis tool; Apply Laplace
transforms and transfer functions
ENGR 313   Engineering Systems III   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENGR 312 with a minimum grade of C-; Restricted to
Applied Math and Engineering majors   
This course is an introduction to discrete-time signal processing and
system identiﬁcation. Major topics include the z-transform, inﬁnite/ﬁnite
impulse response ﬁlters, discrete/fast Fourier transform, models of linear
time-invariant systems, and parameter estimation methods.
Outcomes:
Reinforce fundamental knowledge of signal processing concepts;
Execute discrete-time signal processing techniques; Solve real-world
problems through use of modeling, prediction, and estimation methods
ENGR 321   Electronic Circuits & Devices   (2 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHYS 112K or PHYS 122 (minimum C-); Corequisites:
ENGR 311 and (MATH 266 or MATH 264)   
This course is an introduction to electronic circuits and devices. Major
topics in this course include an introduction to Ohm's Law, Kirchhoff's
Current Law, Kirchhoff's Voltage Law, Nodal and Loop analysis, Thevenin's
and Norton's Theorems, and alternating current steady-state analysis.
Outcomes:
Deﬁne and explain the terminology associated with linear circuit theory;
Identify and solve linear circuits utilizing the most appropriate method for
the analysis

--- Page 354 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 385
ENGR 322   Chemical & Thermal Processes   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (CHEM 171 or CHEM 102), (PHYS 111 or PHYS 121), (PHYS
112K or PHYS 122), and MATH 162 (each with minimum C-)   
This course provides an introduction to basic chemical and thermal
processes. Major topics include open and closed systems, control
volumes, microscopic vs. macroscopic, mass and energy balances, ﬁrst
and second laws of thermodynamics, entropy balance, exergy balance,
thermodynamic cycles, thermodynamic property relations, gas laws, and
chemical thermodynamics.
Outcomes:
Describe engineering systems and cycles using mass and energy
conservation laws, quantify chemical and thermodynamic properties of
pure substances, and analyze thermodynamics cycles and processes
ENGR 323   Digital Electronic & Computer Engineering   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (PHYS 112K or PHYS 122) and COMP 170 (each with
minimum C-); Corequisite: ENGR 324L   
This course is an introduction to digital design. Major topics in this
course include, but is not limited to, binary conversions, logic gates,
combinational logic design, sequential logic design, microprocessor
architecture, and an introduction to hardware description languages.
Outcomes:
Understand the fundamental building blocks of digital systems;
Understand and apply knowledge in the implementation and design of
digital circuits
ENGR 324   Mechanics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (PHYS 111 or PHYS 121), (PHYS 112K or PHYS 122), and
(MATH 264 or MATH 266) (each with minimum C-)   
Mechanics covers the fundamentals of modeling continuous media.
Major topics include stress, strain, and constitutive relations; elements
of tensor analysis; basic applications of solid and fluid mechanics; and
application of conservation laws to control volumes.
Outcomes:
Construct free-body diagrams to undertake structural analysis; Apply the
laws of conservation to solve engineering problems
ENGR 324L   Core Engineering Lab   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  ENGR majors only; Corequisites: ENGR 322, ENGR 323, and
ENGR 324   
This lab course enables students to experiment with concepts learned in
concurrently taken core engineering courses ENGR 322, ENGR 323, and
ENGR 324.
Outcomes:
Understand, apply and create an assembly-based program for ARM-
based microprocessors; Apply Thermodynamic and Flow principles in an
experimental context
ENGR 325   Materials Engineering   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENGR 322 and ENGR 324 (minimum of C-)   
This course introduces concepts related to the structure, properties, and
processing of materials commonly used in engineering applications.
Major topics include material structure, bonding, crystalline and non-
crystalline structures, imperfections, properties of metals, metal alloys,
ceramics and polymers, phase transformation, and material failu res.
Outcomes:
Describe the microscale structure of metals, ceramics, polymers, and
composites; quantify and describe relationships among structure,
processing, and properties; understand the role of material selection in
contemporary engineering design applicationsENGR 341   Medical Device Systems   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 266, ENGR 321, ENGR 323, ENGR 324, BIOL 101, and
CHEM 171; ENGR majors only; Corequisites: ENGR 325, ENGR 341L, and
ENGR 313   
The relevant physiology, clinical need, history, and system descriptions
of eighteen fundamental medical devices are discussed and analyzed.
Students are also introduced to several medical device systems,
including medical instruments, electrical stimulators, and combination
products. These topics provide a foundational background for medical
device product development and regulation.
Outcomes:
Understand and analyze the clinical need and common subsystems
underlying eighteen fundamental medical devices; Evaluate the battery
requirements for commonly implantable medical devices
ENGR 341L   Medical Device Systems Laboratory   (1 Credit Hour)   
Introduction to the graphical user interface, data acquisition, and sensors
of common medical devices. The lab experiments are synchronized with
the presentation of medical device topics in ENGR 341. Students also
create a software application for a Sponsor from the School of Nursing.
Restricted to Engineering majors. Concurrent enrollment in ENGR 341.
Apply FDA design control principles for creation of a nursing software
application and accompanying requirement and design speciﬁcations.
Outcomes:
Use common medical devices subsystems
ENGR 342   Medical Device Software Development I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENGR 341 and ENGR 341L, each with a minimum grade of
C-  
This is the second semester of a three-semester Specialty course series
for students specializing in Biomedical Engineering. During the ﬁrst four
weeks, students increase their programming skills through exposure
to recurrence solving, sorting, and data structures. They then learn
how design and verify medical device software using model-based
engineering. Restricted to Engineering majors. Concurrent enrollment in
ENGR 381.
Outcomes:
Design a medical device through model-based engineering concepts
ENGR 343   Medical Device Software Development II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Restricted to Engineering majors   
This is the third semester of a three-semester Specialty course series
for students specializing in Biomedical Engineering. During four weeks,
students increase their programming skills through exposure to advanced
data structures and graph algorithms. Separately, software issues that
the Food and Drug Administration considers during medical device
submissions are highlighted. ENGR 342 with a minimum grade of C-,
concurrent enrollment in ENGR 391.
Outcomes:
Analyze software issues that the FDA considers during medical device
submissions; Create user interface and cybersecurity code, according to
Requirements Speciﬁcations provided by the instructor

--- Page 355 ---
386  Engineering
ENGR 351   Electronic Circuit Analysis and Design   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENGR 201, ENGR 312, and ENGR 321 (each with minimum
of C-); Corequisite: ENGR 351L   
A course for engineering students (computer engineering) that i ntroduces
advanced topics in the design and analysis of analog and digital
electronic circuits. Areas of emphasis include an introduction to
semiconductor physics, diodes, BJT transistors, CMOS devices, advanced
operational ampliﬁer circuits and frequency response fundamentals.
Outcomes:
Understand and apply fundamental concepts of semiconductor physics;
Understand and apply complex models to analyze analog and digital
microelectronic circuits
ENGR 351L   Circuit Design Laboratory   (1 Credit Hour)   
Co-requisites:  ENGR 351   
A lab for engineering students (in the computer engineering
specialization) to provide a ﬁrst experience working with semiconductor
devices (such as diodes, BJTs, MOSFETs, and Operational Ampliﬁers)
for the design, creation and analysis of microelectronics using lab
instruments.
Outcomes:
Identify integrated circuit design issues and develop applicable solutions;
Apply advanced principles in analog circuit design, creation and analysis
ENGR 352   Methods and Algorithms for Computer Engineers   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENGR 351 and ENGR 351L (each with minimum of C-)   
ENGR 352 is the second semester course of a three-semester Specialty
course series for students specializing in Computer Engineering. The
areas of emphasis are the analysis of the methods and algorithms used
in computer engineering. The course includes hands-on experiments and
a design project related to the computing performance and efﬁciency
improvement of engineering systems
Outcomes:
Evaluate the design and implementation of methods and algorithms
in computer engineering; Analyze the performance, efﬁciency and
computational complexities of algorithms using the time-and-space
tradeoff
ENGR 353   Programmable Systems   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENGR 352 (minimum C-)   
ENGR 353 is the third semester course of a three-semester Specialty
course series for students specializing in Computer Engineering. The
course consists of an introduction to programmable logic controllers,
relays, timers, counters, shift registers, human-machine interfaces
and programmable embedded systems. The course includes hands-
on experiments and a design project to evaluate the performance and
efﬁciency of programmable systems, related safety issues and hardware
troubleshooting for control and automation systems.
Outcomes:
Evaluate the performance and efﬁciency of programmable controllers,
embedded systems and processors; Design modern engineering tools to
integrate hardware and software components, and input-output devices
used in industriesENGR 361   Fundamentals of Environmental Engineering   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 266, ENGR 322, ENGR 324, and ENGR 325 (each with
minimum C-); ENGR majors only; Corequisite: ENGR 361L   
This is the ﬁrst of three Specialization courses in Environmental
Engineering. Topics include aquatic chemistry, chemical thermodynamics
and kinetics, environmental soil and biogeochemistry, environmental
organic chemistry, surface and groundwater hydrology, atmospheric
processes, and fate and transport modeling of contaminants in natural
and engineered systems.
Outcomes:
Apply principles of environmental engineering to describe and quantify
key physical, biological and chemical phenomena in natural and
engineered systems
ENGR 361L   Fundamentals of Environmental Engineering Lab   (1 Credit
Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  ENGR majors only; Corequisite: ENGR 361   
This laboratory course introduces students to the analytical techniques
such as mass spectrometry and titration, relevant to environmental
engineering practice. This course emphasizes the design of ﬁeld
sampling campaigns of water and soil environments and the statistical
data analysis of experimentally estimated water and soil parameters.
Outcomes:
Quantify fundamental environmental parameters with emphasis on water
quality; Design and conduct a ﬁeld sampling campaign
ENGR 362   Water & Wastewater Engineering   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 266, ENGR 324, and CHEM 171 (each with minimum
C-)  
Theoretical and conceptual design of systems for treating municipal
wastewater and drinking water which include reactor theory, process
kinetics, and models. Physical, chemical, and biological processes
are presented, including sedimentation, ﬁltration, biological treatment,
disinfection, and sludge processing. Re-use of water and waste products
are also covered.
Outcomes:
Undertake calculations related to unit processes and undertake the
required calculations to design a municipal water and wastewater
treatment facility
ENGR 363   Contemporary Environmental Engineering Challenges   (3
Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 266 and ENGR 324 (minimum C-)   
This is the third semester of a three-semester Specialty course series
for students specializing in Environmental Engineering. Overview of
engineering solutions to present day environmental issues. Technologies
focused on the mitigation and adaptation to climate change, the
modeling and design of best management practices Overview of
engineering solutions to present day environmental issues. Technologies
focused on the mitigation and adaptation to climate change, the
modeling and design of best management practices for stormwater
management, an exploration of conventional and renewable energy
technologies and the design of green infrastructure.
Outcomes:
Make aware of present and future environmental challenges; Understand
the current methods being employed to tackle current environmental
issues

--- Page 356 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 387
ENGR 381   Biomedical Engineering Capstone Design I   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Restricted to Engineering majors; ENGR 341   
A major design experience based on the knowledge and skills acq uired
in earlier course work and incorporating appropriate engineering
standards and multiple realistic constraints. Each group is assigned
an industry-sponsored medical device software problem to solve. Each
week, a medical device product development or regulation topic is also
introduced.
Outcomes:
ABET Student Outcome (2): An ability to apply engineering design
to produce medical device solutions that meet speciﬁed needs with
consideration for public health, safety, welfare, and other factors
ENGR 382   Computer Engineering Capstone Design I   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Restricted to Engineering majors; ENGR 351   
First part of the team-based Capstone Design series for Computer
Engineering students. Students focus on the design of an indust ry-
sponsored project with practical, economic, and ethical constraints.
They learn the fundamentals of product development, quality, reliability,
ethics and project management as it relates to the ﬁeld of computer
engineering.
Outcomes:
ABET Student Outcome (2): An ability to apply engineering design
to produce microelectronic solutions that meet speciﬁed needs with
consideration for public health, safety, welfare, and other factors
ENGR 383   Environmental Engineering Capstone Design I   (4 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 266, ENGR 324, and ENGR 322 (each with minimum
C-); ENGR majors only   
A major design experience based on the knowledge and skills acq uired
in earlier course work and incorporating engineering standards and
multiple realistic constraints. Each group is assigned an environmental
engineering industry-sponsored design problem to solve. During the
semester, speciﬁc environmental design and regulation case studies will
be introduced.
Outcomes:
ABET Student Outcome (2): An ability to apply engineering design to
produce environmental engineering solution that meet speciﬁed needs
with consideration for public health, safety, environmental and other
factors
ENGR 391   Biomedical Engineering Capstone Design II   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Restricted to Engineering majors; ENGR 381 during the
same academic year, ENGR 342, concurrent enrollment in ENGR 343   
Second semester of a major design experience based on knowledge
and skills acquired in earlier course work and incorporating appropriate
engineering standards and multiple realistic constraints. Each group
continues work on the industry-sponsored medical device projects
assigned in ENGR 381. Medical device product development or regulation
topics are also introduced.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
ABET Student Outcome (2): An ability to apply engineering design
to produce medical device solutions that meet speciﬁed needs with
consideration for public health, safety, welfare, and other factorsENGR 392   Computer Engineering Capstone Design II   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Restricted to Engineering majors; ENGR 382 during the
same academic year, ENGR 352, concurrent enrollment in ENGR 353   
Second semester of a major design experience based on knowledge
and skills acquired in earlier course work and incorporating appropriate
engineering standards and multiple realistic constraints. Each group
continues work on the industry-sponsored design projects assigned in
ENGR 382. Computer engineering or professional development topics are
also introduced.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
ABET Student Outcome (2): An ability to apply engineering design to
produce computer engineering solutions that meet speciﬁed needs with
consideration for public health, safety, welfare, and other factors
ENGR 393   Environmental Engineering Capstone Design II   (4 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENGR 383 (minimum C-)   
Second semester of a major design experience based on knowledge
and skills acquired in earlier course work and incorporating appropriate
engineering standards and multiple realistic constraints. Each group
continues work on the industry-sponsored design projects assigned
in ENGR 383. Environmental engineering or professional development
topics are also introduced. ENGR majors only.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
ABET Student Outcome (2): An ability to apply engineering design to
produce environmental engineering solutions that meet speciﬁed needs
with consideration for public health, safety, welfare, and other factors
ENGR 398   Independent Study   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
The course enables independent study of selected topics in Biomedical,
Computer, and Environmental Engineering, under the supervision of a
faculty member. It may be repeated for credit. Restricted to Engineering
majors. Permission of Director.
Outcomes:
Application of engineering concepts, and analysis of Biomedical,
Computer, or Environmental Engineering systems
Engineering with a Biomedical
Engineering Specialization (BS)
Biomedical Engineers blend traditional engineering techniques with
biological sciences and medicine to improve the quality of human health
and life.  We believe all patients should receive high-quality medical
devices, regardless of their ability to pay.  Our students learn to design
and test robust electrical medical devices, in preparation for a medical
device to be cleared or approved by the Food and Drug Administration.
Related Programs
Major
•Engineering with a Computer Engineering Specialization (BS)
(p. 389)
•Engineering with an Environmental Engineering Specialization (BS)
(p. 391)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Engineering DesignENGR 101Introduction to Engineering Design4

--- Page 357 ---
388  Engineering with a Biomedical Engineering Specialization (BS)
ENGR 201 Experiential Engineering 3Engineering CoreENGR 102 Engineering Freshman Seminar 1ENGR 321Electronic Circuits & Devices2
ENGR 322 Chemical & Thermal Processes 3ENGR 323Digital Electronic & Computer Engineering3
ENGR 324 Mechanics 3ENGR 324LCore Engineering Lab1
ENGR 325 Materials Engineering 3Engineering SystemsENGR 311 Engineering Systems I 3ENGR 312Engineering Systems II3
ENGR 313 Engineering Systems III 3Specialty Engineering CoursesENGR 341 Medical Device Systems 3ENGR 341LMedical Device Systems Laboratory1
ENGR 342 Medical Device Software Development I 3ENGR 343Medical Device Software Development II3
ENGR 381 Biomedical Engineering Capstone Design I 4ENGR 391Biomedical Engineering Capstone Design II4
Math & Science CoursesBIOL 101 
& BIOL 111General Biology I 
and General Biology I Lab4
CHEM 171 General Chemistry for Engineering Science Majors 3CHEM 173General Chemistry Lab for Engineering Science
Majors1
COMP 170 Introduction to Object-Oriented Programming 3MATH 161Calculus I4
MATH 162 Calculus II 4MATH 263Multivariable Calculus4
MATH 266 Differential Equations and Linear Algebra 3PHYS 121College Physics I with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3
PHYS 122 
& PHYS 112LCollege Physics II with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion 
and College Physics Lab II4STAT 203Introduction to Probability & Statistics3Total Hours86
Suggested Sequence of Courses
Course Title Hours
Freshman
Fall
ENGR 101 Introduction to Engineering Design 14MATH 161Calculus I 24
BIOL 101 General Biology I 23BIOL 111General Biology I Lab 21
PHYS 121 College Physics I with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion 23UNIV 101First Year Seminar 31 Hours16SpringCOMP 170Introduction to Object-Oriented
Programming 23
MATH 162 Calculus II 24PHYS 122College Physics II with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion 23
PHYS 112L College Physics Lab II 21UCWR 110Writing Responsibly 33
LUC Core  33ENGR 102Engineering Freshman Seminar 41 Hours18
Sophomore
FallENGR 201Experiential Engineering 13
MATH 263 Multivariable Calculus 24CHEM 171General Chemistry for Engineering Science
Majors 23
CHEM 173 General Chemistry Lab for Engineering
Science Majors 21LUC Core  33Foreign Language 101  33 Hours17
Spring
ENGR 311 Engineering Systems I 53ENGR 321Electronic Circuits & Devices 42
MATH 266 Differential Equations and Linear Algebra 23LUC Core  33
LUC Core  33Foreign Language 102  33 Hours17
Junior
FallENGR 312Engineering Systems II 53
ENGR 322 Chemical & Thermal Processes 43ENGR 323Digital Electronic & Computer Engineering 43
ENGR 324 Mechanics 43ENGR 324LCore Engineering Lab 41LUC Core  33 Hours16
Spring
ENGR 313 Engineering Systems III 53ENGR 325Materials Engineering 43
ENGR 341 Medical Device Systems 63ENGR 341LMedical Device Systems Laboratory 61
STAT 203 Introduction to Probability & Statistics 23LUC Core  33 Hours16
Senior
FallENGR 342Medical Device Software Development I 63
ENGR 381 Biomedical Engineering Capstone Design I
64LUC Core  33

--- Page 358 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 389
LUC Core  33LUC Core  33 Hours16
SpringENGR 343Medical Device Software Development II 63
ENGR 391 Biomedical Engineering Capstone Design II
64LUC Core  33LUC Core  33 Hours13 Total Hours129
1Engineering Design
2Math & Science Courses
3LUC Core/Foreign Language
4Engineering Core
5Engineering Systems
6Specialty Engineering Courses
 Learn more at LUC.edu/engineering  (https://www.luc.edu/engineering/ )
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning  Outcomes
Engineering - ABET Student Outcomes
Student outcomes describe what students are expected to know and be
able to do by the time of graduation.  Our students will possess:
•An ability to identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering
problems by applying principles of engineering and mathematics.
•An ability to apply engineering process to produce solutions that
meet speciﬁed needs with consideration of public health, safety,
and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and
economic factors.
•An ability to communicate effectively with a range of audiences.
•An ability to recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in
engineering situations and make informed judgments, which must
consider the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic,
environmental, and societal contexts.
•An ability to function effectively on a team whose members together
provide leadership, create a collaborative and inclusive environment,
establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives.•An ability to develop and conduct appropriate experimentation,
analyze and interpret data, and use engineering judgment to draw
conclusions.
•An ability to acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using
appropriate learning strategies.
Engineering with a Computer
Engineering Specialization (BS)
Computer Engineers conceive and develop the next wave of computing
advances, innovations, and devices that are used in modern computers
and computer-controlled systems. Our students learn how to design
and integrate hardware and software components that are used in
computer equipment such as microelectronic chips, circuit boards and
controllers. In addition, our students learn the fundamentals utilized
in computer- controlled systems such as computer networks, cyber-
physical systems, sensors and actuators, smart grids, machine learning
and artiﬁcial intelligence.
Related Programs
Major
•Engineering with a Biomedical Engineering Specialization (BS)
(p. 387)
•Engineering with an Environmental Engineering Specialization (BS)
(p. 391)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Engineering DesignENGR 101Introduction to Engineering Design4
ENGR 201 Experiential Engineering 3Engineering CoreENGR 102 Engineering Freshman Seminar 1ENGR 321Electronic Circuits & Devices2
ENGR 322 Chemical & Thermal Processes 3ENGR 323Digital Electronic & Computer Engineering3
ENGR 324 Mechanics 3ENGR 324LCore Engineering Lab1
ENGR 325 Materials Engineering 3Engineering SystemsENGR 311 Engineering Systems I 3ENGR 312Engineering Systems II3
ENGR 313 Engineering Systems III 3Specialty Engineering CoursesENGR 351 Electronic Circuit Analysis and Design 3ENGR 351LCircuit Design Laboratory1
ENGR 352 Methods and Algorithms for Computer Engineers 3ENGR 353Programmable Systems3
ENGR 382 Computer Engineering Capstone Design I 4ENGR 392Computer Engineering Capstone Design II4
Math & Science CoursesBIOL 101 
& BIOL 111General Biology I 
and General Biology I Lab4
CHEM 171 General Chemistry for Engineering Science Majors 3

--- Page 359 ---
390  Engineering with a Computer Engineering Specialization (BS)CHEM 173General Chemistry Lab for Engineering Science
Majors1
COMP 170 Introduction to Object-Oriented Programming 3MATH 161Calculus I4
MATH 162 Calculus II 4MATH 263Multivariable Calculus4
MATH 266 Differential Equations and Linear Algebra 3PHYS 121College Physics I with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3
PHYS 122 
& PHYS 112LCollege Physics II with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion 
and College Physics Lab II4STAT 203Introduction to Probability & Statistics3Total Hours86
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Freshman
Fall
ENGR 101 Introduction to Engineering Design 14MATH 161Calculus I 24
BIOL 101 General Biology I 23BIOL 111General Biology I Lab 21
PHYS 121 College Physics I with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion 23UNIV 101First Year Seminar 31 Hours16
SpringCOMP 170Introduction to Object-Oriented
Programming 23
MATH 162 Calculus II 24PHYS 122College Physics II with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion 23
PHYS 112L College Physics Lab II 21UCWR 110Writing Responsibly 33
LUC Core  33ENGR 102Engineering Freshman Seminar 41 Hours18
Sophomore
FallENGR 201Experiential Engineering 13
MATH 263 Multivariable Calculus 24CHEM 171General Chemistry for Engineering Science
Majors 23
CHEM 173 General Chemistry Lab for Engineering
Science Majors 21LUC Core  33Foreign Language 101  33 Hours17
Spring
ENGR 311 Engineering Systems I 53ENGR 321Electronic Circuits & Devices 42
MATH 266 Differential Equations and Linear Algebra 23LUC Core  33
LUC Core  33Foreign Language 102  33 Hours17
Junior
FallENGR 312Engineering Systems II 53
ENGR 322 Chemical & Thermal Processes 43ENGR 323Digital Electronic & Computer Engineering 43
ENGR 324 Mechanics 43ENGR 324LCore Engineering Lab 41LUC Core  33 Hours16
Spring
ENGR 313 Engineering Systems III 53ENGR 325Materials Engineering 43
ENGR 351 Electronic Circuit Analysis and Design 63ENGR 351LCircuit Design Laboratory 63
STAT 203 Introduction to Probability & Statistics 23LUC Core  33 Hours18
Senior
FallENGR 352Methods and Algorithms for Computer
Engineers 63
ENGR 382 Computer Engineering Capstone Design I 64LUC Core  33
LUC Core  33LUC Core  33 Hours16
SpringENGR 353Programmable Systems 63
ENGR 392 Computer Engineering Capstone Design II 64LUC Core  33LUC Core  33 Hours13 Total Hours131
1Engineering Design
2Math & Science Courses
3LUC Core/Foreign Language
4Engineering Core
5Engineering Systems
6Specialty Engineering Courses
Learn more at LUC.edu/engineering  (https://www.luc.edu/engineering/ )

--- Page 360 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 391
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning  Outcomes
Engineering - ABET Student Outcomes
Student outcomes describe what students are expected to know and be
able to do by the time of graduation.  Our students will possess:
•An ability to identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering
problems by applying principles of engineering and mathematics.
•An ability to apply engineering process to produce solutions that
meet speciﬁed needs with consideration of public health, safety,
and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and
economic factors.
•An ability to communicate effectively with a range of audiences.
•An ability to recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in
engineering situations and make informed judgments, which must
consider the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic,
environmental, and societal contexts.
•An ability to function effectively on a team whose members together
provide leadership, create a collaborative and inclusive environment,
establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives.
•An ability to develop and conduct appropriate experimentation,
analyze and interpret data, and use engineering judgment to draw
conclusions.
•An ability to acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using
appropriate learning strategies.
Engineering with an Environmental
Engineering Specialization (BS)
Environmental engineers identify, analyze and design solutions to
environmental problems, which disproportionately impact historically
disadvantaged communities.  Addressing environmental issues, such
as water, wastewater, air quality, and solids, requires taking into account
the underlying impacts of climate change that threaten the global
community.  Our students learn environmental analysis and management
for the water and wastewater treatment industries.
Related Programs
Major
•Engineering with a Biomedical Engineering Specialization (BS)
(p. 387)•Engineering with a Computer Engineering Specialization (BS)
(p. 389)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Engineering DesignENGR 101Introduction to Engineering Design4
ENGR 201 Experiential Engineering 3Engineering CoreENGR 102 Engineering Freshman Seminar 1ENGR 321Electronic Circuits & Devices2
ENGR 322 Chemical & Thermal Processes 3ENGR 323Digital Electronic & Computer Engineering3
ENGR 324 Mechanics 3ENGR 324LCore Engineering Lab1
ENGR 325 Materials Engineering 3Engineering SystemsENGR 311 Engineering Systems I 3ENGR 312Engineering Systems II3
ENGR 313 Engineering Systems III 3Specialty Engineering CoursesENGR 361 Fundamentals of Environmental Engineering 3ENGR 361LFundamentals of Environmental Engineering Lab1
ENGR 362 Water & Wastewater Engineering 3ENGR 363Contemporary Environmental Engineering
Challenges3
ENGR 383 Environmental Engineering Capstone Design I 4ENGR 393Environmental Engineering Capstone Design II4
Math & Science CoursesBIOL 101 
& BIOL 111General Biology I 
and General Biology I Lab4
CHEM 171 General Chemistry for Engineering Science Majors 3CHEM 173General Chemistry Lab for Engineering Science
Majors1
COMP 170 Introduction to Object-Oriented Programming 3MATH 161Calculus I4
MATH 162 Calculus II 4MATH 263Multivariable Calculus4
MATH 266 Differential Equations and Linear Algebra 3PHYS 121College Physics I with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3
PHYS 122 
& PHYS 112LCollege Physics II with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion 
and College Physics Lab II4STAT 203Introduction to Probability & Statistics3Total Hours86
Suggested Sequence of Courses 
Course Title Hours
Freshman
Fall
ENGR 101 Introduction to Engineering Design 14MATH 161Calculus I 24

--- Page 361 ---
392  Engineering with an Environmental Engineering Specialization (BS)
BIOL 101 General Biology I 23BIOL 111General Biology I Lab 21
PHYS 121 College Physics I with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion 23UNIV 101First Year Seminar 31 Hours16
SpringCOMP 170Introduction to Object-Oriented
Programming 23
MATH 162 Calculus II 24PHYS 122College Physics II with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion 23
PHYS 112L College Physics Lab II 21UCWR 110Writing Responsibly 33
LUC Core  33ENGR 102Engineering Freshman Seminar 41 Hours18
Sophomore
FallENGR 201Experiential Engineering 13
MATH 263 Multivariable Calculus 24CHEM 171General Chemistry for Engineering Science
Majors 23
CHEM 173 General Chemistry Lab for Engineering
Science Majors 21LUC Core  33Foreign Language 101  33 Hours17
Spring
ENGR 311 Engineering Systems I 53ENGR 321Electronic Circuits & Devices 42
MATH 266 Differential Equations and Linear Algebra 23LUC Core  33
LUC Core  33Foreign Language 102  33 Hours17
Junior
FallENGR 312Engineering Systems II 53
ENGR 322 Chemical & Thermal Processes 43ENGR 323Digital Electronic & Computer Engineering 43
ENGR 324 Mechanics 43ENGR 324LCore Engineering Lab 41LUC Core  33 Hours16
Spring
ENGR 313 Engineering Systems III 53ENGR 325Materials Engineering 43
ENGR 361 Fundamentals of Environmental
Engineering 63ENGR 361LFundamentals of Environmental
Engineering Lab 61
STAT 203 Introduction to Probability & Statistics 23LUC Core  33 Hours16
Senior
FallENGR 362Water & Wastewater Engineering 63
ENGR 383 Environmental Engineering Capstone
Design I 64LUC Core  33
LUC Core  33LUC Core  33 Hours16
SpringENGR 363Contemporary Environmental Engineering
Challenges 63
ENGR 393 Environmental Engineering Capstone
Design II 64LUC Core  33LUC Core  33 Hours13 Total Hours129
1Engineering Design
2Math & Science Courses
3LUC Core/Foreign Language
4Engineering Core
5Engineering Systems
6Specialty Engineering Courses
Learn more at LUC.edu/engineering  (https://www.luc.edu/engineering/ )
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning  Outcomes
Engineering - ABET Student Outcomes
Student outcomes describe what students are expected to know and be
able to do by the time of graduation.  Our students will possess:
•An ability to identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering
problems by applying principles of engineering and mathematics.
•An ability to apply engineering process to produce solutions that
meet speciﬁed needs with consideration of public health, safety,

--- Page 362 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 393
and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and
economic factors.
•An ability to communicate effectively with a range of audiences.
•An ability to recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in
engineering situations and make informed judgments, which must
consider the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic,
environmental, and societal contexts.
•An ability to function effectively on a team whose members together
provide leadership, create a collaborative and inclusive environment,
establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives.
•An ability to develop and conduct appropriate experimentation,
analyze and interpret data, and use engineering judgment to draw
conclusions.
•An ability to acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using
appropriate learning strategies.
English
Explore the resources and career opportunities available through the
English BA degree program! This four-year degree guides undergraduates
towards developing new research and communication skills through
reading, critiquing, and writing about literature and theory.
Mission and Goals
The Department of English at Loyola University Chicago seeks to promote
the university's mission to encourage freedom of inquiry, the pursuit of
truth and care for others through teaching, scholarship and service of the
highest caliber.
In its teaching, the Department of English seeks to provide students
with an education of the highest quality in the English language, in
literature written in English and in critical and creative writing, judiciously
combining breadth with depth, tradition with contemporaneity. It
seeks to attract the best possible students from diverse geographical,
professional, racial and ethnic backgrounds; it encourages minority and
foreign applicants and those returning to school after an interruption of
their academic lives. It encourages students throughout their programs
so as to enable them to progress expeditiously to their degrees and to
gain the maximum beneﬁt from their experience.
Through the work of its faculty, the Department of English also strives
to participate in and contribute to the wider community of scholarship,
research and pedagogical theory and practice in the disciplines of
literary and critical studies; in creative and critical writing; in comparative
literature; in gender, ethnic and cultural studies; in teacher training; and in
linguistics.
The Department of English also seeks to serve the larger university
and greater Chicago community through public event programming,
collaborative projects with secondary schools and other colleges and
universities, and general assistance.
The Department of English operates four programs: the Writing Programs,
Core Courses in English Language and Literature, the Undergraduate
Major and Minor Programs, and the Graduate Programs. Speciﬁc goals
for each of these programs follow. In order to achieve these goals at
the highest levels of professional and intellectual accomplishment,
the department seeks to recruit, support and retain the best faculty,
and to foster academic freedom in teaching and research in ways that
support the university's mission of producing knowledge in the service of
humanity.Writing Programs
•Develop in students' writing sound organization of thought, clarity in
the structure of sentences and paragraphs, forceful, energetic prose
and critical thinking; undergird the Writing Across the Curriculum
Program in the undergraduate colleges; provide remedial instruction
for those students who require it; and bring students with second
language and dialect interference problems into the mainstream of
standard written English
•Offer tutorial and collaborative aid at the LUC Writing Centers at Lake
Shore and Water Tower Campuses to students from all colleges and
levels of the university
Core Courses in English Language and Literature
•Introduce students to the study of literature by providing practice in
careful, critical reading and developing in them a sense of the various
contexts—biographical, social, political, etc.—that can enrich their
understanding of a work
•Foster in students an appreciation and enjoyment of literature's
aesthetic and intellectual elements
•Enhance students' perception of the richness and diversity of the
social and ethical values in literature and our response to them,
recognizing that literature is by its nature value-laden; that each
author and reader brings to his or her work an ethical framework and
vision of the human condition
•Enable students to transfer sensitivity to language and literary
structure to their own writing, through a required writing component
in each course
•Offer guidance and training in the writing of ﬁction, poetry and non-
ﬁctional prose
Undergraduate Programs
•English (BA)  (p. 404)
•English (BA/BSED)  (p. 406)
•English (BA/MA)  (p. 1095 )
•English Honors  (p. 407)
•English Minor  (p. 408)
•English with a Creative Writing Concentration (BA)  (p. 408)
•Shakespeare Studies Minor  (p. 464)
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
English (ENGL)
ENGL 100   Developmental Writing   (3 Credit Hours)   
English 100 is a basic writing course that provides instruction in
fundamental composition skills to prepare the student for UCWR 110.
The course emphasizes mastery of grammar, usage, and punctuation.
Placement required.
Outcomes:
Students will develop skill in: writing with a clear audience and purpose
in mind; developing a clearly stated thesis which acts as the governing
idea of an essay; writing coherent paragraphs and well-organized longer
essays using various invention strategies; using transitions to link
ideas; exhibiting a working knowledge of basic grammar, usage, and
punctuation conventions

--- Page 363 ---
394  English
ENGL 102   College Composition ESL 1   (3 Credit Hours)   
English 102 is the ﬁrst of a two-course sequence designed to im prove
the linguistic abilities of those for whom English is a second language.
This course provides grammar and writing instruction for students who
require more focused work in revising language usage and composing
than English 103 can provide. Placement required.
Outcomes:
Students will develop skill in: writing essays that develop a clearly-
stated governing idea and that provide relevant support for that idea;
proceeding through all stages of the writing process: prewriting, drafting,
and revising, with emphasis on improving language usage; editing their
own compositions, and working with other students in peer-editing
groups; consistently employing English-language grammar, usage, and
punctuation
ENGL 103   College Composition ESL 2   (3 Credit Hours)   
English 103 is the second of two courses intended to improve the
linguistic abilities of those for whom English is a second language.
English 103 stresses the acquisition of necessary language skills in the
areas of grammar and usage, comprehension and critical reading, and
writing at a level appropriate to university study in an English-speaking
country. Placement required.
Outcomes:
Students develop skill in: writing with a clear audience and purpose in
mind; developing a clearly stated thesis which acts as the governing
idea of an essay; writing coherent paragraphs and well-organized longer
essays using various invention strategies; using transitions to link ideas;
exhibiting a working knowledge of grammar, usage, and punctuation
ENGL 210   Business Writing   (3 Credit Hours)   
English 210 provides training and practice in various forms of writing
(such as memos, instructions, letters, resumes, proposals, and reports)
relevant to students who are considering careers in business.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate familiarity with genres and styles of writing
commonly used in business, with the stages of the writing process, and
with individual and collaborative methods of composing
ENGL 211   Writing for Pre-Law Students   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  successful completion of UCWR 110   
Studies in argument and exposition from a lawyer's perspective for
students considering the study of law.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Sociolegal Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of the principles involved in writing
clear and effective prose for a variety of legal purposes, and be able to
apply these principles to their own writing in the ﬁeld
ENGL 220   Theory and Practice of Tutoring Writing   (3 Credit Hours)   
This seminar explores Writing Center pedagogical theory and practice. It
includes a community-based service-learning component that involves
community-service, professional development, leadership development,
civic engagement, and cross-curriculum collaboration on a daily basis to
continually improve the quality of the writing tutoring services.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   ENGL 271   Exploring Poetry   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
The course will survey British and American poetry, especially from
the Romantic movement on, especially of lyric kinds. Class discussion
will generally focus on the form and sense of individual poems, and
will in general be about poetic ways of meaning, and individual poets'
understandings of what poetry is and what it is to do.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  ENGL 271/ACENG 271   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of signiﬁcant
poems by selected British and American poets, demonstrate an
understanding of basic critical terminology, and demonstrate an
understanding of relevant critical perspectives on poetry
ENGL 272   Exploring Drama   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course focuses on the understanding, appreciation, and criticism
of drama; extensive readings and several critical analyses are required.
Students will also be able to demonstrate understanding of how plays are
constructed in different ways to serve different purposes.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of drama's ability to
express the deepest and most complex feelings and concerns of human
beings as individuals, as family members, and as members of soc iety: the
individual's place in the universe, in relation to others, and in relation to
the socio-political system that he or she inhabits
ENGL 273   Exploring Fiction   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course focuses on the understanding, appreciation, and criticism of
prose ﬁction.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  ENGL 273/ACENG 273   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of ﬁction as a means
of exploring human experience and understanding the creative process,
and be able to use the technical vocabulary necessary for understanding
ﬁction
ENGL 274   Exploring Shakespeare   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course focuses on the works of Shakespeare as literature and
as theatre, covering at least three of the four genres (comedy, history,
tragedy, romance).
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  ACENG 274 / ENGL 274   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the theatrical and
poetic works of Shakespeare, such elements of drama as plot, character,
theme, imagery, and verse forms, as well as the personal, political and
theatrical world in which Shakespeare lived and worked

--- Page 364 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 395
ENGL 282   African-American Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course focuses on the development of the African American literary
tradition from the emergence of the slave narrative to the contemporary
present.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora   
Course equivalencies:  ENGL 282 / ACENG 282   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to discuss the signiﬁcance of major African
American literary movements and the contributions of representative
writers from these periods
ENGL 282B   African-American Literature 1700-1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the development of the African American literary
tradition from the emergence of slave narrative to the contemporary
present. This particular version of the course focuses on material within
the time period 1700-1900.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Race
and Ethnicity   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to discuss the signiﬁcance of major African
American literary movements and the contributions of representative
writers from these periods
ENGL 282C   African-American Literature since 1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the development of the African American literary
tradition from the emergence of slave narrative to the contemporary
present. This particular version of the course focuses on material since
1900.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to discuss the signiﬁcance of major African
American literary movements and the contributions of representative
writers from these periods
ENGL 283   Women in Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course focuses on the representation of women in literature, as
discussed in a variety of literary works.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  ENGL283/WOST283/WSGS283   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the
representations of women in various periods of literary history and
diverse cultural contextsENGL 284   Asian American Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course introduces the range of Asian American literature from its
earliest works around the turn of the 20th century to its proliferation in
contemporary literature.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film
& Media Studies, Race and Ethnicity, Film & Digital Media Studies,
International Film & Media Studies, Race and Ethnicity   
Course equivalencies:  X-ENGL284/ICVM284/IFMS284   
Outcomes:
Students will trace major developments in Asian American literature,
recognize the diversity of Asian American identities and histories, and
apply key concepts and historical contexts from Asian American culture
ENGL 287   Religion and Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course introduces the study of literature and religion as a
contemporary ﬁeld of inquiry. It aims to explain and illustrate the
nature and theoretical strategies of a religious literary criticism, and
to encourage an appreciation of this valuable and productive way of
reading.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, Catholic Studies, Catholic
Studies, Catholic Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to use the technical vocabulary necessary for
discussing literary representations of religious and spiritual experience
ENGL 288   Nature in Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course focuses on the relationship of human beings and the
environment in which they function, as represented in a variety of literary
works.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ENGL288/ESP 288/PAX 288   
Outcomes:
students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the
representations of ""nature"" in various periods of literary history and
diverse cultural contexts
ENGL 290   Human Values in Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This variable topics course focuses on a perennial psychological or
philosophical problem facing the individual as exempliﬁed in literary
works, e.g., the passage from innocence to experience, the problem of
death, and the idea of liberty.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  ACENG 276 / ENGL 290   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the ability of
literature to express the deepest and most abiding concerns of human
beings, and how literary works come to be

--- Page 365 ---
396  English
ENGL 292   South Asian Literature and Civilizations   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
An introduction to South Asian literatures and civilizations, from ancient
to contemporary times, with attention to social institutions, religious
practices, artistic achievements, literature, and modern challenges.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of the cultures and civilizations of
South Asia
ENGL 293   Advanced Writing   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCWR 110 or equivalent (grade of C- or higher)   
This advanced writing course will focus on scholarly theories about the
practice and process of writing. Course work will center on students'
reconsiderations of their own writing processes in the context of
scholarly composition theory.
Outcomes:
Students will develop and demonstrate theoretical knowledge of
advanced strategies for producing academic writing
ENGL 294   Writing in/with New Media   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCWR 110 or equivalent, grade of C- or higher   
This advanced writing course will consider how communication is
mediated and remediated in the digital age, and draw connections
between historical moments of print culture with that of contemporary
technological advancement. Writing will engage emerging digital genres
(websites, blogs, memes), digital storytelling, multimodal composition,
and social media.
Outcomes:
Learn terms/theories/concepts of new media historically and in the
present; identify interactions between new media, writing, and other
disciplines; effectively move a piece of writing from concept to revision
ENGL 295   Writing Toward Social Justice: Eloquentia Perfecta   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCWR 110 or equivalent, grade of C- or better   
Course will address problems of community concern through Jesuit
rhetorical practice, with basis in thinking, acting and reflecting.
Students will learn how to write and speak in a variety of outward-
facing modalities. They will work in partnership with a local community
organization, applying techniques and practices learned in the classroom.
Outcomes:
Reflection: personal concerns and values; Community organization
collaboration: writing and presentation projects; Peer review and group
writing; Proﬁciency in modalities: op-ed pieces, funding requests,
promotional writing, multimodal presentations, grant writing
ENGL 299   Topics in Advanced Writing   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCWR 110   
This is a course in writing clear and effective prose in whatever form/
genre is being studied; the subtitle will deﬁne the form/genre more
precisely.
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of the principles involved in writing
clear and effective prose in whatever form/genre is under study, and be
able to apply these principles to their own writing in this for m/genre
ENGL 300   History of English Language   (3 Credit Hours)   
Study of the origin and development of English: its sounds, word-forms,
and syntax.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of the history of English and some
understanding of linguistic theoryENGL 303   Grammar: Principles & Pedagogy   (3 Credit Hours)   
A study of English grammar focusing on linguistic applications such
as the teaching of Standard American English to native and non-native
speakers, to speakers of Ebonics, and other classroom applications.
Required for students planning to teach high school English, but open to
others.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of grammar and sentence
structure sufﬁcient to teach them
ENGL 306   Studies in Women Writers   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course investigates signiﬁcant issues raised in and by women-
authored works. Readings may cover ﬁction, drama, and/or poetry from
any literary period.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain knowledge about women's lives and writings; will
understand the difference gender makes to the writing, reading, and
interpretation of literature; and will acquire the critical vocabulary that will
enable them to describe and analyze, and formulate arguments about,
women-authored literature
ENGL 306A   Studies in Women Writers Before 1700   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course investigates signiﬁcant issues raised in and by women-
authored works. Readings may cover ﬁction, drama, and/or poetry from
before 1700.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain knowledge about women's lives and writings; will
understand the difference gender makes to the writing, reading, and
interpretation of literature; and will acquire the critical vocabulary that will
enable them to describe and analyze, and formulate arguments about,
women-authored literature
ENGL 306B   Studies in Women Writers 1700-1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course investigates signiﬁcant issues raised in and by women-
authored works. Readings may cover ﬁction, drama, and/or poetry within
the period from 1700-1900.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain knowledge about women's lives and writings; will
understand the difference gender makes to the writing, reading, and
interpretation of literature; and will acquire the critical vocabulary that will
enable them to describe and analyze, and formulate arguments about,
women-authored literature
ENGL 306C   Studies in Women Writers Since 1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course investigates signiﬁcant issues raised in and by women-
authored works. Readings may cover ﬁction, drama, and/or poetry since
1900.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain knowledge about women's lives and writings; will
understand the difference gender makes to the writing, reading, and
interpretation of literature; and will acquire the critical vocabulary that will
enable them to describe and analyze, and formulate arguments about,
women-authored literature
ENGL 307   Topics in Feminist and Gender Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an intensive study of selected issues in women's studies or
gender studies in relation to literature.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ENGL307/WOST307/WSGS307   

--- Page 366 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 397
ENGL 311   U.S. Latino/a Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCWR 110 plus one 200-level ENGL course   
Students will study literature by U.S. Latino and Latina writers (esp.
Mexican American, Puerto Rican, Dominican American, and Cuban
American). Readings will highlight the variety of aesthetic styles and
cultural points of view that characterize this rapidly growing ﬁeld.
Issues like language (bilingualism, translation, and code-switching),
immigration, nationalism, transnationalism, and citizenship will be
especially important.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Latin American Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will develop analytical tools, culturally-speciﬁc terms, and
critical questions to help them to interpret and to write about Latino/a
literature
ENGL 312   Studies in World Literature in English   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCWR 110 and a 200-level English course   
This course adopts a transnational, trans-historical approach to
Anglophone world literatures. Readings may include global, postcolonial,
and/or diasporic literatures in English.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will develop analytical tools, culturally-speciﬁc terminology, and
critical questions to enable them to interpret and formulate arguments
about global English-language literatures
ENGL 312A   Studies in World Literature in English Before 1700   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course will introduce students to a range of critical and theoretical
approaches to the study of world literatures in English. Authors studied
may include leading theorists like Frantz Fanon, Edward Said, Gayatri
Spivak, Homi Bhabha, Paul Gilroy, and Arjun Appadurai; and literary
writers before 1700.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the critical
skills and theoretical insights necessary for discussing, analyzing and
formulating arguments about world literatures in English
ENGL 312B   Studies in World Literature in English 1700-1900   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course will introduce students to a range of critical and theoretical
approaches to the study of world literatures in English. Authors studied
may include leading theorists like Frantz Fanon, Edward Said, Gayatri
Spivak, Homi Bhabha, Paul Gilroy, and Arjun Appadurai; and literary
writers within the period of 1700-1900.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the critical
skills and theoretical insights necessary for discussing, analyzing and
formulating arguments about world literatures in English
ENGL 312C   Studies in World Literature in English Since 1900   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course will introduce students to a range of critical and theoretical
approaches to the study of world literatures in English. Authors studied
may include leading theorists like Frantz Fanon, Edward Said, Gayatri
Spivak, Homi Bhabha, Paul Gilroy, and Arjun Appadurai; and literary
writers since 1900.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the critical
skills and theoretical insights necessary for discussing, analyzing and
formulating arguments about world literatures in EnglishENGL 313   Border Literatures   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will survey a range of contemporary ﬁction that crosses
national, cultural, social, political and personal borders. The study of
border literatures will vary, and may include Hispanic-American writers,
the Caribbean poet, Derek Walcott, and other literatures that move
between disparate locations (England, India, Africa, Burma, etc.).
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Race and Ethnicity   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate familiarity with contempor ary
theoretical approaches, and to analyze texts that demonstrate how
personal, cultural, and political identities develop in transnational
contexts
ENGL 313A   Border Literature Before 1700   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will survey a range of contemporary ﬁction that crosses
national, cultural, social, political and personal borders. The focus of the
study of border literatures before 1700 will vary, and may include various
writers in literatures that move between disparate locations (England, the
Americas, India, Africa, Burma, etc.).
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate familiarity with contempor ary
theoretical approaches, and to analyze texts that demonstrate how
personal, cultural, and political identities develop in transnational
contexts
ENGL 313B   Border Literature 1700-1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will survey a range of contemporary ﬁction that crosses
national, cultural, social, political and personal borders. The study of
border literatures from within this period will vary, and may include
various writers in literature that move between disparate locations
(England, the Americas, India, Africa, Burma, etc.).
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate familiarity with contempor ary
theoretical approaches, and to analyze texts that demonstrate how
personal, cultural, and political identities develop in transnational
contexts
ENGL 313C   Border Literature Since 1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will survey a range of contemporary ﬁction that crosses
national, cultural, social, political and personal borders. The focus of
the study of border literatures from within this period will vary, and
may include various writers in literatures that move between disparate
locations (England, the Americas, India, Africa, Burma, etc.).
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate familiarity with contempor ary
theoretical approaches, and to analyze texts that demonstrate how
personal, cultural, and political identities develop in transnational
contexts
ENGL 315   South Asian Literatures in English   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the study of literature written in English from
South Asia and the South Asian diaspora. Authors studied may include
Narayan, Naipaul, Desai, Sidhwa, and Rushdie.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the personal,
cultural, and political experiences of South Asia's diverse populations as
they are reflected in the literature of the modern and contemporary period

--- Page 367 ---
398  English
ENGL 315C   South Asian Literature Since 1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the study of literature written in English from
South Asia and the South Asian diaspora, focusing on the period since
1900. Authors studied may include Narayan, Naipaul, Desai, Sidwa, and
Rushdie.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the personal,
cultural, and political experiences of South Asia's diverse populations as
they are reflected in the literature of the modern and contemporary period
ENGL 316C   Caribbean Literature in English Since 1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will introduce students to the study of literature written in
English from the Caribbean in this period. Authors studied may include
Lamming, Rhys, Walcott, Cliff, Lovelace, and Brathwaite.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Global
Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the different
genres of Caribbean literature, as well as the personal, political, and
cultural contexts of the literature
ENGL 317   The Writing of Poetry   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides extensive practice in both the reading and the
writing of poetry.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the critical skills
necessary for discussing, analyzing and formulating arguments about
poetry, and will produce a portfolio of original poems
ENGL 318   The Writing of Fiction   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will discuss the techniques of ﬁction writing and w ill offer
guidance in writing some works of original short ﬁction.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the critical skills
necessary for discussing, analyzing and formulating arguments about
ﬁction, and will produce original short stories
ENGL 318R   The Writing of Fiction: Writing Rome   (3 Credit Hours)   
By exploring the city of Rome through reading, writing, and on-site
classes, students will be provided with an interdisciplinary approach to
the generation of written work. This course will discuss the techniques of
ﬁction writing, drawing inspiration from the city of Rome as a backdrop.
On-site classes will enrich the ﬁction writing process, while in-class
workshops will offer guidance in writing works of short original ﬁction.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Italian Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the critical skills
necessary for discussing, analyzing and formulating arguments about
ﬁction, and will produce original works of ﬁction in the form of writing
portfolio
ENGL 319   Writing Creative Nonﬁction   (3 Credit Hours)   
A workshop in writing and critiquing original creative nonﬁction in several
representative sub-genres.
Outcomes:
Students will learn to apply both traditional ﬁctional techniques (eg, in-
depth characterization, dramatic plot development, speciﬁc concrete
detail) and more innovative ones (eg, shifting chronology, genre mixing,
eccentric voices, multiple points-of-view) in their nonﬁction writingENGL 320   English Literature: Medieval Period   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides a survey of Old and Middle English Literature,
studied partly in translation and partly in the original.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies, Medieval
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ENGL320/CATH321/MSTU308   
Outcomes:
Students will receive training in the understanding, appreciation, and
criticism of works of medieval culture
ENGL 321   Intro to Anglo-Saxon   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces students to the fundamentals of the Old English
language (c. 600-1150), surveying poetry and prose in the original.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Medieval Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ENGL321/MSTU312   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to read Old English and to demonstrate a knowledge
of literary works written during the Anglo-Saxon period
ENGL 322   Chaucer   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces students to the life and writings of Chaucer
through the reading of a representative selection (but not necessarily
all) of The Canterbury Tales and through considering a variety of critical
perspectives on them.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies, Medieval
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ENGL322/MSTU316   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge of Chaucer's poetry,
the ability to read Middle English, and familiarity with some critical
perspectives on Chaucer's works
ENGL 323   Studies in Medieval Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
Intensive study of speciﬁc topics in the ﬁeld of Medieval literature and
culture.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies, Medieval
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ENGL323/MSTU320   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of signiﬁcant
works of the Medieval period, of the historical political, social and
intellectual backgrounds that provide a context for the works studied, and
of relevant theoretical and critical perspectives
ENGL 325   British Literature-The Renaissance   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a study of selected literature of the Tudor, Stuart, and
Cromwellian periods, excluding Shakespeare, by authors such as Sidney,
Spenser, Lanyer, Donne, Wroth, and Milton.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Shakespeare Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will become familiar with: the texts of signiﬁcant authors of the
period; how to read these texts in relation to the intellectual and social
contexts in which they were produced; the literary genres, traditions, and
conventions they employed and transformed
ENGL 326   Shakespeare: Selected Major Plays   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an advanced study of selected plays as theatre and as
literature. Topics may include Shakespeare's life, sources, and influence;
background of Early Modern literature and drama; Shakespeare's theatre;
the tradition of Shakespeare criticism.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Shakespeare Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of, to analy ze, and to
defend interpretations of the plays of Shakespeare

--- Page 368 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 399
ENGL 327   Studies in Shakespeare   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENGL 274 or 326   
Intensive reading of selected Shakespeare plays.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Shakespeare Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of, to analy ze, and
to defend interpretations of a particular body of plays by Shakespeare,
chosen by genre, theme, etc
ENGL 328   Studies in The Renaissance   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course will be a highly selective survey of late Renaissance literature,
from John Donne and Ben Jonson to Andrew Marvell.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies, Shakespeare
Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to: 1) demonstrate an understanding of
signiﬁcant works by selected Renaissance authors; 2) demonstrate
an understanding of historical, political, social, and intellectual
backgrounds as they provide a context for the poems; 3) demonstrate an
understanding of relevant theoretical and critical perspectives
ENGL 329   Milton   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will cover Milton's early poetry, one or two of his prose
works, and his late, major poems: Paradise Lost, Paradise Regained, and
Samson Agonistes.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to: 1) demonstrate an understanding of Mi lton's
major works, and a knowledge of his career; 2) demonstrate an
understanding of social, political, and cultural backgrounds as they
provide a context for Milton's poems; 3) demonstrate an understanding of
relevant theoretical and critical perspectives
ENGL 335   British Literature - The Romantic Period   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the study of literature of the Romantic movement
in its historical context; authors may include Blake, Wordsworth,
Coleridge, Smith, Byron, P .B. Shelley, M.W. Shelley, Keats, Hemans, Hazlitt,
and Austin.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge of major works of the
Romantic movement, and of its relationship to historical developments of
the period
ENGL 338   Studies in The Romantic Movmnt   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students will engage in intensive consideration of selected Romantic
period texts. The focus of the course will vary according to the
instructor's choice of topic.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to discuss and analyze the texts studied in this
course, and to articulate diverse positions on the issues related to the
course's central topic
ENGL 340   British Literature - The Victorian Period   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides a survey of important works of prose, poetry, and
ﬁction from the Victorian period (1832-1901). Authors may include
Tennyson, the Brownings, Arnold, the Brontës, Hopkins, Hardy, Newman,
Dickens, Thackeray, and George Eliot.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate their ability to analyze and interpret a variety
of works studied in the course, and to articulate an awareness of the
social, political, and historical contexts that inform an understanding of
these worksENGL 343   Studies in the Victorian Period   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides an opportunity for intensive consideration of
selected Victorian texts that centers on a particular theme or genre or
author. The course will vary each time it is taught.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge of the subject of the
course and an appreciation of that particular aspect of Victorian life, art,
and thought
ENGL 344   Studies in Modernism   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCWR 110 and a 200-level English course   
The course focuses on selected issues in current critical discussions
of modernism. The issues may concern competing conceptions of
modernism and individual writers associated with modernism.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to articulate diverse positions on the issues of the
course
ENGL 345   British Literature Since 1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCWR 110 and one 200-level English course   
This course focuses on selected examples of British poetry, ﬁction,
drama, ﬁlm, and non-ﬁction written in the 20th century. The principle of
selection may be cultural, theoretical, or formal.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge of assigned texts and
will be able to explain the relationship among assigned texts in relation to
the themes of the course
ENGL 348   Studies in British Literature Since 1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCWR 110 and any 200-level English course   
This course focuses intensively on selected twentieth century British
texts in relation to social and literary issues of the period. The selection
may focus on cultural, theoretical, or formal issues.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate detailed knowledge of particular
texts and will be able to describe the relation of the assigned texts to a
particular set of critical questions
ENGL 350   Studies in Postmodernism   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCWR 110 and any 200-level English course   
Postmodernism, as an aesthetic response to postmodernity, is an
interdisciplinary concept, originating in architecture and encompassing
literature, art in various media, digital media, and literary and cultural
theory. Focusing primarily on Western literature and theory after WWII,
this course investigates postmodernism as a literary period, an aesthetic
style, an historical moment, and a cultural problematic.
Outcomes:
Students will learn how the term "postmodernism" functions as a literary
period, an aesthetic style, an historical moment, a cultural problematic, as
well as a theoretical imperative
ENGL 351   Contemporary Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
Contemporary literature is most often deﬁned as literature produced after
WWII. This course explores the challenge of deﬁning "contemporary"
literature by reading a range of texts from the period in their aesthetic,
social, historical, and cultural contexts.
Outcomes:
Students will learn critical and analytical tools for reading contemporary
literature

--- Page 369 ---
400  English
ENGL 354   Contemporary Critical Theory   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course, which is required of all English majors, introduces students
to critical terminology and to issues in contemporary criticism and theory.
Readings may include critical works that have informed and established
formalist, feminist, psychoanalytic, and Marxist approaches to literary
analysis, as well as those associated with gender studies, cultural
studies, postcolonialism, and deconstruction.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge and understanding of
signiﬁcant texts and theories relating to issues in contemporary criticism
ENGL 355   Studies in Literary Criticism   (3 Credit Hours)   
Intensive study of speciﬁc topics in the ﬁeld of literary criticism and
theory.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of signiﬁcant
works in the designated ﬁeld, and will be able to discuss relevant
theoretical and critical perspectives
ENGL 357   Literature from a Writer's Perspective   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCWR 110 and any 200-level English course   
This course examines literature from various periods in poetry and/or
prose for technical innovation and genre development, with particular
emphasis on applications to the creative process.
Outcomes:
Students will gain a deeper understanding of the technical innovations
and/or genre developments being studied, and will be able to apply these
to their own creative works of ﬁction and/or poetry
ENGL 358   Cultural Theory   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides an introduction to the theory informing the ﬁeld of
Cultural Studies and to the history of theoretical writings about "culture. "
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge and understanding of
signiﬁcant theoretical texts in the ﬁeld of cultural studies
ENGL 359   High and Low Culture   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students will study the interactions between elite and popular culture,
possibly focusing on a historical period or on a conceptual issue such as
the framing of "canons. " Students will review and assess the assumptions
and goals of those who create and critique works of culture. Students will
also analyze the criteria by which speciﬁc works are judged.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to describe, analyze, and formulate an argument
about cultural productions, using appropriate critical and technical
vocabulary
ENGL 359A   High and Low Culture Before 1700   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students will study the interaction between elite and popular c ulture,
focusing on the material and issues relating to the period before 1700.
Students will review and assess the assumption and goals of those
who create and critique works of culture. Students will also analyze the
criteria by which speciﬁc works are judged.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to describe, analyze, and formulate an argument
about cultural productions, using appropriate critical and technical
vocabularyENGL 359B   High and Low Culture 1700-1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students will study the interaction between elite and popular c ulture,
focusing on the material and issues relating to the period from
1700-1900. Students will review and assess the assumption and goals of
those who create and critique works of culture. Students will also analyze
the criteria by which speciﬁc works are judged.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to describe, analyze, and formulate an argument
about cultural productions, using appropriate critical and technical
vocabulary
ENGL 359C   High and Low Culture Since 1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students will study the interaction between elite and popular c ulture,
focusing on the material and issues relating to the period after 1900.
Students will review and assess the assumption and goals of those
who create and critique works of culture. Students will also analyze the
criteria by which speciﬁc works are judged.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to describe, analyze, and formulate an argument
about cultural productions, using appropriate critical and technical
vocabulary
ENGL 361   Modernist Poetry   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCWR 110 and any 200-level ENGL course   
This course is a study of poetry written in response to the conditions
of modernity from the late 19th century to the middle of the 20th. The
course focuses on poetic style and technique as well as on historical and
cultural contexts.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge and understanding of
signiﬁcant texts, techniques, and concepts in modernist poetry, and to
situate these in relation to important literary and historical contexts
ENGL 362   Studies in Poetry   (3 Credit Hours)   
Study of poetry centered on a theme, topic, genre, critical approach,
author, or group of authors. Readings may cut across historical periods
and geographical boundaries.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge and understanding of
poetic texts and of their interrelationships and contexts
ENGL 362A   Studies in Poetry Before 1700   (3 Credit Hours)   
Study of poetry centered on a theme, topic, genre, critical approach,
author, or group of authors. Readings may cut across historical periods
and geographical boundaries, but will focus on poetry written before
1700.
Course equivalencies:  ENGL362/362A/362B/362C   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge and understanding of
poetic texts and of their interrelationships and contexts
ENGL 362B   Studies in Poetry 1700-1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
Study of poetry centered on a theme, topic, genre, critical approach,
author, or group of authors. Readings may cut across historical periods
and geographical boundaries, but will focus on poetry written between
1700 and 1900.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge and understanding of
poetic texts and of their interrelationships and contexts

--- Page 370 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 401
ENGL 362C   Studies in Poetry Since 1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
Study of poetry centered on a theme, topic, genre, critical approach,
author, or group of authors. Readings may cut across historical periods
and geographical boundaries, but will focus on poetry written since 1900.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge and understanding of
poetic texts and of their interrelationships and contexts
ENGL 363A   Major Author, Before 1700   (3 Credit Hours)   
Intensive study of the works and contexts of a major author, before 1700.
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the texts and
contexts of a major author, before 1700.
ENGL 363B   Major Author, 1700-1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
Intensive study of the works and contexts of a major author, 1700-1900.
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the texts and
contexts of a major author, before 1700.
ENGL 363C   Major Author, After 1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
Intensive study of the works and contexts of a major author, after 1900.
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the texts and
contexts of a major author, after 1900.
ENGL 367   Modern Drama   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCWR 110 and any 200-level ENGL course   
This course is a study of dramatists and dramatic forms, techniques, and
innovations from the late-nineteenth century to the present.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to recognize and deﬁne major modern
dramaturgical techniques and to demonstrate understanding of, to
analyze, and to defend interpretations of a variety of plays
ENGL 368   Studies in Drama   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a study of drama centered on a theme, topic, genre, critical
approach, author, or group of authors. Readings may cut across historical
periods and geographical boundaries.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the chose n plays
in their thematic, generic, or other chosen context; they will be able to
analyze and defend interpretations of a variety of plays
ENGL 368A   Studies in Drama Before 1700   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a study of drama centered on a theme, topic, genre, critical
approach, author, or group of authors. Readings may cut across historical
periods and geographical boundaries, but will focus on drama written
before 1700.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the chose n plays
in their thematic, generic, or other chosen context; they will be able to
analyze and defend interpretations of a variety of plays
ENGL 368B   Studies in Drama 1700-1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a study of drama centered on a theme, topic, genre, critical
approach, author, or group of authors. Readings may cut across historical
periods and geographical boundaries, but will focus on drama written
between 1700 and 1900.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the chose n plays
in their thematic, generic, or other chosen context; they will be able to
analyze and defend interpretations of a variety of playsENGL 368C   Studies in Drama Since 1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a study of drama centered on a theme, topic, genre, critical
approach, author, or group of authors. Readings may cut across historical
periods and geographical boundaries, but will focus on drama written
since 1900.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the chose n plays
in their thematic, generic, or other chosen context; they will be able to
analyze and defend interpretations of a variety of plays
ENGL 369A   Women in Drama Before 1700   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on women as playwrights, actors, directors,
spectators, and subjects of drama before 1700.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the ways in which
women and issues important to women have been presented on the
stage; they will be able to analyze and defend interpretations of a variety
of plays
ENGL 369B   Women in Drama 1700-1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on women as playwrights, actors, directors,
spectators, and subjects of drama between 1700 and 1900.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the ways in which
women and issues important to women have been presented on the
stage; they will be able to analyze and defend interpretations of a variety
of plays
ENGL 371   The Modern Novel   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCWR 110 and any 200-level ENGL course   
This course covers novels since the late 19th century and explores formal
and cultural influences on the form.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the critical
skills and theoretical insights necessary for discussing, analyzing and
formulating arguments about the novel in the modern world
ENGL 372   Studies in Fiction   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a study of ﬁction centered on a theme, topic, genre, critical
approach, author, or group of authors. Readings may cut across historical
periods and geographical boundaries.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an ability to employ descriptive
and critical language appropriate to the discussion and analysis of
ﬁction generally and, in particular, of the kind of ﬁction (eg theme, topic,
genre, etc) on which the course is centered; Students will be able to
demonstrate an ability to articulate the formal and thematic continuities
and discontinuities among these works
ENGL 372A   Studies in Fiction Before 1700   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a study of ﬁction centered on a theme, topic, genre, critical
approach, author, or group of authors. Readings may cut across historical
periods and geographical boundaries, but will focus on ﬁction written
before 1700.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an ability to employ descriptive
and critical language appropriate to the discussion and analysis of
ﬁction generally and, in particular, of the kind of ﬁction (eg theme, topic,
genre, etc) on which the course is centered; Students will be able to
demonstrate an ability to articulate the formal and thematic continuities
and discontinuities among these works

--- Page 371 ---
402  English
ENGL 372B   Studies in Fiction 1700-1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a study of ﬁction centered on a theme, topic, genre, critical
approach, author, or group of authors. Readings may cut across historical
periods and geographical boundaries, but will focus on ﬁction written
between 1700-1900.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an ability to employ descriptive
and critical language appropriate to the discussion and analysis of
ﬁction generally and, in particular, of the kind of ﬁction (eg theme, topic,
genre, etc) on which the course is centered; Students will be able to
demonstrate an ability to articulate the formal and thematic continuities
and discontinuities among these works
ENGL 372C   Studies in Fiction Since 1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a study of ﬁction centered on a theme, topic, genre, critical
approach, author, or group of authors. Readings may cut across historical
periods and geographical boundaries, but will focus on ﬁction written
since 1900.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an ability to employ descriptive
and critical language appropriate to the discussion and analysis of
ﬁction generally and, in particular, of the kind of ﬁction (eg theme, topic,
genre, etc) on which the course is centered; Students will be able to
demonstrate an ability to articulate the formal and thematic continuities
and discontinuities among these works
ENGL 375   American Literature to 1865   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a study of selected works of American Literature of this
period against the background of historical events, political and social
changes, moral and cultural traditions. Authors may include Bradford,
Bradstreet, Franklin, Poe, Hawthorne, Melville, Emerson, and Thoreau.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the disti nctive
historical conditions that inform American literature of this period, and
will be able to identify and discuss some of its ideological and generic
characteristics
ENGL 376   American Literature 1865-1914   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a study of the rise of American Literature of this period.
Authors may include Whitman, Dickinson, Twain, James, and Dreiser.
Course equivalencies:  ENGL 376 / ENGL 380   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the disti nctive
historical conditions that inform American literature of this period, and
will be able to identify and discuss some of its ideological and generic
characteristics
ENGL 377   American Literature 1914-1945   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCWR 110 and any 200-level ENGL course   
This course is a study of literature of early twentieth-century America.
Authors may include Cather, Eliot, Frost, Hemingway, Fitzgerald, Faulkner,
O'Neill, Miller and Williams.
Course equivalencies:  ENGL 377 / ENGL 385   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge of the literature of this
period in American history, and familiarity with critical perspectives on
the works studiedENGL 379   Studies in American Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on texts written by American authors. This advanced
seminar course varies in topic and may concentrate on a selection of
works by a major American writer or a particular literary movement,
period, or theme.
Outcomes:
students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of American
literature and culture with focused attention to a major or distinctive
feature of the American literary tradition
ENGL 379A   Studies in American Literature Before 1700   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course focuses on texts written by American authors. This advanced
seminar course varies in topic and may concentrate on a selection of
works by a major American writer or a particular literary movement or
theme before 1700.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of American
literature and culture with focused attention to a major or distinctive
feature of the American literary tradition
ENGL 379B   Studies in American Literature 1700-1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on texts written by American authors. This advanced
seminar course varies in topic and may concentrate on a selection of
works by a major American writer or a particular literary movement or
theme in the period from 1700-1900.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of American
literature and culture with focused attention to a major or distinctive
feature of the American literary tradition
ENGL 379C   Studies in American Literature Since 1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on texts written by American authors. This advanced
seminar course varies in topic and may concentrate on a selection of
works by a major American writer or a particular literary movement or
theme in the period since 1900.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of American
literature and culture with focused attention to a major or distinctive
feature of the American literary tradition
ENGL 381   Comparative American Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the study of U.S. literature and culture in relation
to other literatures and cultures.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an ability to identify the formal and thematic
features that, as literature, US writing shares with the literature of other
cultures; Students will also demonstrate an ability to specify the formal
and thematic features that, as an expression of and response to cultural
forces particular to the US, differentiate US writing from that of other
cultures
ENGL 381A   Comparative Literature Before 1700   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the study of U.S. literature and culture in relation
to other literatures and cultures, with a focus on the period before 1700.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an ability to identify the formal and thematic
features that, as literature, US writing shares with the literature of other
cultures; Students will also demonstrate an ability to specify the formal
and thematic features that, as an expression of and response to cultural
forces particular to the US, differentiate US writing from that of other
cultures

--- Page 372 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 403
ENGL 381B   Comparative American Literature 1700 - 1900   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course focuses on the study of U.S. literature and culture in relation
to other literatures and cultures, with a focus on the period before 1700.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an ability to identify the formal and thematic
features that, as literature, US writing shares with the literature of other
cultures; Students will also demonstrate an ability to specify the formal
and thematic features that, as an expression of and response to cultural
forces particular to the US, differentiate US writing from that of other
cultures
ENGL 381C   Comparative American Literature Since 1900   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course focuses on the study of U.S. literature and culture in relation
to other literatures and cultures, with a focus on the period since 1900.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an ability to identify the formal and thematic
features that, as literature, US writing shares with the literature of other
cultures; Students will also demonstrate an ability to specify the formal
and thematic features that, as an expression of and response to cultural
forces particular to the US, differentiate US writing from that of other
cultures
ENGL 382   Studies in American Culture   (3 Credit Hours)   
Intensive study of speciﬁc topics in the ﬁeld of American culture.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of signiﬁcant
works by selected American authors, of the historical political, social and
intellectual backgrounds that provide a context for the works studied, and
of relevant theoretical and critical perspectives
ENGL 382A   Studies in American Culture Before 1700   (3 Credit Hours)   
Intensive study of speciﬁc topics in the ﬁeld of American culture before
1700.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of signiﬁcant
works by selected American authors, of the historical political, social and
intellectual backgrounds that provide a context for the works studied, and
of relevant theoretical and critical perspectives
ENGL 382B   Studies in American Culture 1700-1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
Intensive study of speciﬁc topics in the ﬁeld of American culture between
1700 and 1900.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of signiﬁcant
works by selected American authors, of the historical political, social and
intellectual backgrounds that provide a context for the works studied, and
of relevant theoretical and critical perspectives
ENGL 382C   Studies in American Culture Since 1900   (3 Credit Hours)   
Intensive study of speciﬁc topics in the ﬁeld of American culture since
1900.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of signiﬁcant
works by selected American authors, of the historical political, social and
intellectual backgrounds that provide a context for the works studied, and
of relevant theoretical and critical perspectivesENGL 383   Theology and Literature   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Study of theological and religious symbols and themes in modern
literature and/or in the arts.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO383/ENGL383/CATH383   
Outcomes:
The student who successfully completes this course will be able to
demonstrate knowledge about religion and its intersections with selected
contemporary ethical, social, political, economic, or cultural issues
ENGL 384   Studies in African American Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
Intensive study of texts written by African American authors. The
course varies in topic and may concentrate on a selection of works by a
major African American writer or a particular African American literary
movement, period, or theme.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of African
American literature and culture with specialized attention to a major or
distinctive feature of the African American literary tradition
ENGL 384B   Studies in African American Literature, 1700-1900   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Intensive study of texts written by African American authors. The
course varies in topic and may concentrate on a selection of works by a
major African American writer or a particular African American literary
movement or theme, 1700-1900.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of African
American literature and culture with specialized attention to a major or
distinctive feature of the African American literary tradition, 1700-1900
ENGL 384C   Studies in African American Literature Since 1900   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Intensive study of texts written by African American authors. The
course varies in topic and may concentrate on a selection of works by a
major African American writer or a particular African American literary
movement or theme since 1900.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of African
American literature and culture with specialized attention to a major or
distinctive feature of the African American literary tradition since 1900
ENGL 390   Advanced Seminar   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior standing   
This course is required of all English majors. It offers an advanced,
intensive study of a period, author, genre, theme or critical issue in a
seminar setting. Topics are announced when the course is offered.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to recognize the ways that the subject matter of the
seminar relates to the production, representation, and interpretation of
artistic culture

--- Page 373 ---
404  English (BA)
ENGL 392   Advanced Creative Nonﬁction Workshop   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENGL 319 Writing Creative Nonﬁction   
This is a workshop in writing creative nonﬁction, furthering work done
in ENGL 319, Writing Creative Nonﬁction. Students will write in different
genres (e.g., memoir, travel writing, speculative essay, nature writing, the
spiritual essay), and will further their study in using both traditional and
experimental literary techniques in nonﬁction.
Outcomes:
Students will deepen their learning of traditional and innovative methods
of writing creative nonﬁction, applying them to their original creative
nonﬁctions and discussing and critiquing them in fellow students' work
ENGL 393   Teaching English to Adults: Internship   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore Standing or above   
This course offers training and practical experience in tutoring adults
in written and spoken English in a volunteer literacy program at Loyola
University. Students examine literacy issues and write a research paper.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of societal and
cultural factors affecting literacy, and will develop communication and
critical thinking skills
ENGL 394   Internship   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior standing, six English courses   
This course provides on-the-job experience for majors in adapting their
writing and analytical skills to the needs of such ﬁelds as publishing,
editing, and public relations.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze their experience in terms of the skills
they brought to their jobs, what they learned about the ﬁelds they worked
in, and what new skills they developed as a result of their experiences
ENGL 395   Honors Tutorial   (3 Credit Hours)   
Content will vary each time the course is offered, but in general will entail
in-depth study of a literary genre or a major author or theme in literature.
Course equivalencies:  ENGL 395H / ENGL 395   
Outcomes:
Students will strengthen their capacity to analyze literature and to
discuss it, both orally and in writing, and will be able to demonstrate
understanding of the materials studied and of relevant theoretical and
critical perspectives
ENGL 397   Advanced Writing Workshop: Poetry   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENGL 317   
Students will read master poets as models and will write and revise
poems of their own, which will be discussed by the class in a workshop
format.
Outcomes:
Students will produce original poems, building upon skills honed
in ENGL 317; They will also be able to demonstrate a deepening
understanding of the critical skills necessary for analyzing and
discussing original poetry, theirs and their fellow students'
ENGL 398   Advanced Writing Workshop: Fiction   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENGL 318   
This course allows students to develop further their skills in writing and
analyzing original ﬁction begun in ENGL 318, in a supportive workshop
atmosphere.
Outcomes:
Students will produce original short stories, building upon skills honed
in ENGL 318; They will also be able to demonstrate a deepening
understanding of the critical skills necessary for analyzing and
discussing original ﬁction, theirs and their fellow students'ENGL 399   Special Studies in Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
Subject matter of this course will be designated by a subscript whenever
the course is offered. Usually taken as an independent study.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the topic of the
course, and of the research and critical skills necessary to analyze and
discuss it; Usually students will work independently and produce a
research paper, under the direction of a faculty member
English (BA)
The undergraduate major program equips students with the skills and
concepts that make the English major an asset in the modern world. In
addition to literary analysis in both traditional and contemporary forms,
the major helps students explore historical and cultural developments
and invites them into the worlds of textual studies and digital humanities.
All courses at all levels of the program encourage students to become
clear and effective writers.
Related Programs
Major
•English with a Creative Writing Concentration (BA)  (p. 408)
Minor
•English Minor  (p. 408)
•Shakespeare Studies Minor  (p. 464)
Curriculum
Twelve courses (36 hours), nine of which (27 hours) must be at the 300-
level. Up to three elective courses (9 hours) may be drawn from UCLR-
E 100 and advanced 200-level (ENGL 270 and above) courses. At least
one course must be among those designated by the department as
"multicultural. " The Advanced Seminar ( ENGL 390 Advanced Seminar ) is
considered the capstone of the major. These courses must also meet the
following criteria:
Code Title Hours
Literary TheoryENGL 354Contemporary Critical Theory3or ENGL 355Studies in Literary Criticism
ShakespeareSelect one of the following:  13
ENGL 326 Shakespeare: Selected Major Plays 2ENGL 327Studies in Shakespeare 2Capstone: Advanced SeminarENGL 390Advanced Seminar 33
English Literature Before 1900  (p. 405) (See List)Select at least one course prior to 1700  43
Select at least one course from 1700 to 1900 3One additional course chosen from either of the previous categories3
English Literature Since 1900  (p. 405) (See list) 3Elective CoursesComplete ﬁve ENGL elective courses15Total Hours36
1Note that ENGL 274 Exploring Shakespeare  will  not fulﬁll this
requirement for English majors.

--- Page 374 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 405
2If both ENGL 326 Shakespeare: Selected Major Plays  and ENGL 327
Studies in Shakespeare  are taken, one may be used to satisfy the
literature prior to 1700 requirement.
3Open to students with junior or senior standing; students may take an
additional ENGL 390 Advanced Seminar  if they wish.
4If a student takes both ENGL 326 Shakespeare: Selected Major Plays
and ENGL 327 Studies in Shakespeare , one of these may be used
to satisfy this requirement; the other will satisfy the Shakespeare
requirement.
English Literature Before 1900
Code Title Hours
English Courses Prior to 1700ENGL 306AStudies in Women Writers Before 17003
ENGL 312A Studies in World Literature in English Before 1700 3ENGL 313ABorder Literature Before 17003
ENGL 320 English Literature: Medieval Period 3ENGL 321Intro to Anglo-Saxon3
ENGL 322 Chaucer 3ENGL 323Studies in Medieval Literature3
ENGL 325 British Literature-The Renaissance 3ENGL 328Studies in The Renaissance3
ENGL 329 Milton 3ENGL 359AHigh and Low Culture Before 17003
ENGL 362A Studies in Poetry Before 1700 3ENGL 363AMajor Author, Before 17003
ENGL 368A Studies in Drama Before 1700 3ENGL 369AWomen in Drama Before 17003
ENGL 372A Studies in Fiction Before 1700 3ENGL 379AStudies in American Literature Before 17003
ENGL 381A Comparative Literature Before 1700 3ENGL 382AStudies in American Culture Before 17003
English Courses Between 1700 and 1900ENGL 306BStudies in Women Writers 1700-19003
ENGL 312B Studies in World Literature in English 1700-1900 3ENGL 313BBorder Literature 1700-19003
ENGL 335 British Literature - The Romantic Period 3ENGL 338Studies in The Romantic Movmnt3
ENGL 340 British Literature - The Victorian Period 3ENGL 343Studies in the Victorian Period3
ENGL 359B High and Low Culture 1700-1900 3ENGL 362BStudies in Poetry 1700-19003
ENGL 368B Studies in Drama 1700-1900 3ENGL 369BWomen in Drama 1700-19003
ENGL 372B Studies in Fiction 1700-1900 3ENGL 375American Literature to 18653
ENGL 376 American Literature 1865-1914 3ENGL 379BStudies in American Literature 1700-19003
ENGL 381B Comparative American Literature 1700 - 1900 3ENGL 382BStudies in American Culture 1700-19003
ENGL 384B Studies in African American Literature, 1700-1900 3 
English Literature Since 1900
Code Title Hours
ENGL 306C Studies in Women Writers Since 1900 3ENGL 311U.S. Latino/a Literature3
ENGL 312C Studies in World Literature in English Since 1900 3ENGL 313CBorder Literature Since 19003
ENGL 315C South Asian Literature Since 1900 3ENGL 316CCaribbean Literature in English Since 19003
ENGL 344 Studies in Modernism 3ENGL 345British Literature Since 19003
ENGL 348 Studies in British Literature Since 1900 3ENGL 351Contemporary Literature3
ENGL 359C High and Low Culture Since 1900 3ENGL 361Modernist Poetry3
ENGL 362C Studies in Poetry Since 1900 3ENGL 363CMajor Author, After 19003
ENGL 367 Modern Drama 3ENGL 368CStudies in Drama Since 19003
ENGL 371 The Modern Novel 3ENGL 372CStudies in Fiction Since 19003
ENGL 377 American Literature 1914-1945 3ENGL 379CStudies in American Literature Since 19003
ENGL 381C Comparative American Literature Since 1900 3ENGL 382CStudies in American Culture Since 19003
ENGL 384C Studies in African American Literature Since 1900 3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
Students can begin the English (BA) degree at any point in their
undergraduate studies, in consultation with their adviser. The major is
designed to be flexible, engaging students with literature from diverse
historical, national, and global traditions, but with no set sequence
of courses. Students are encouraged, however, to take ENGL 354
(Contemporary Critical Theory) or ENGL 355 (Studies in Literary Criticism)
early on, since these courses make them more conscious of what it
means to read literature. Once students have declared the major, they
are encouraged to contact their adviser in the English Department or the
Department’s Undergraduate Program Director for further guidance on
how best to progress with their studies.
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN

--- Page 375 ---
406  English (BA/BSED)
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
English majors will:
•be able to perform close readings of literature and other kinds of
texts, paying careful attention to textual detail.
•demonstrate an understanding of human diversity as it is represented
in literature and other kinds of texts.
•be able to communicate their ideas clearly, in writing that employs
appropriate word choice, diction, structure, and mechanics.
•be able to create focused and well-supported arguments and
analyses.
•where applicable, demonstrate their understanding of literary and
cultural theories by incorporating them into their work in precise and
effective ways.
•where applicable, demonstrate their ability to employ in their own
creative works their understanding of the conventions and techniques
of particular literary genres.
•where applicable, demonstrate their knowledge of textual genres,
histories, movements, traditions, and innovations.
•demonstrate an understanding of how texts reflect and affect
societies and cultures.
English (BA/BSED)
The Department of English works closely with the  School of Education
(https://www.luc.edu/education/ ) to ensure that English majors who
wish to teach high-school English are well prepared to do so and proceed
smoothly towards both their degree in English and certiﬁcation as
teachers.
Regardless of the year in which they arrived at Loyola, students seeking
certiﬁcation must take all requirements for the Major.  In addition, they
must use three of their electives to take  ENGL 303 Grammar: Principles
& Pedagogy , ENGL 293 Advanced Writing , and  ENGL 294 Writing in/with
New Media
In addition to their English major, students interested in teaching high
school English must apply to the  School of Education BSED in Secondary
Education  (p. 904). Students are considered Dual-Degree Students
and will earn both a BA and a BSED.  Students planning to teach should
see Reid Leber in the School of Education their freshman year to ensure
that they fulﬁll all of the requirements for the degree, major and Illinois
licensure.
Dr. Elissa Weeks Stogner, Senior Lecturer in Writing and Core Literature,
serves as liaison with the School of Education and oversees the advising
of English-Secondary Education majors as they fulﬁll the requirements of
both their major in English and their major in Secondary Education.
Related Programs
Major
•English (BA)  (p. 404)
Minor
•English Minor  (p. 408)Combined
•English (BA/MA)  (p. 1095 )
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesENGL 326Shakespeare: Selected Major Plays3or ENGL 327Studies in Shakespeare
ENGL 354 Contemporary Critical Theory 3
or ENGL 355 Studies in Literary CriticismEnglish Literature Before 1900  (p. 406) (See List)9
At least one course prior to 1700At least one course after 1700English Literature Since 1900  (p. 407) (See List) 3English courses for Secondary EducationENGL 303 Grammar: Principles & Pedagogy 3ENGL 293Advanced Writing3
ENGL 294 Writing in/with New Media 3CapstoneENGL 390 Advanced Seminar 3Required Electives  19Choose two ENGL electivesTotal Hours39
1UCLR-E 100 may count as the required ENGL elective
Depending on the subject matter, the following courses may be included
in any one of the historical periods: 282, 306, 312, 313, 314, 315, 316, 359,
360, 362, 368, 369, 372, 379, 381, 382, 384.
One course must be "multicultural" (for guidelines, visit the
English department Web site)
English Literature Before 1900
Code Title Hours
Choose at least one course prior to 1700ENGL 306AStudies in Women Writers Before 17003
ENGL 312A Studies in World Literature in English Before 1700 3ENGL 313ABorder Literature Before 17003
ENGL 320 English Literature: Medieval Period 3ENGL 321Intro to Anglo-Saxon3
ENGL 322 Chaucer 3ENGL 323Studies in Medieval Literature3
ENGL 325 British Literature-The Renaissance 3ENGL 327Studies in Shakespeare3
ENGL 328 Studies in The Renaissance 3ENGL 329Milton3
ENGL 359A High and Low Culture Before 1700 3ENGL 368AStudies in Drama Before 17003
ENGL 369A Women in Drama Before 1700 3ENGL 372AStudies in Fiction Before 17003
ENGL 379A Studies in American Literature Before 1700 3ENGL 381AComparative Literature Before 17003

--- Page 376 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 407
ENGL 382A Studies in American Culture Before 1700 3Choose at least one course after 1700ENGL 282B African-American Literature 1700-1900 3ENGL 306BStudies in Women Writers 1700-19003
ENGL 312B Studies in World Literature in English 1700-1900 3ENGL 313BBorder Literature 1700-19003
ENGL 338 Studies in The Romantic Movmnt 3ENGL 340British Literature - The Victorian Period3
ENGL 343 Studies in the Victorian Period 3ENGL 359BHigh and Low Culture 1700-19003
ENGL 362B Studies in Poetry 1700-1900 3ENGL 368BStudies in Drama 1700-19003
ENGL 369B Women in Drama 1700-1900 3ENGL 372BStudies in Fiction 1700-19003
ENGL 375 American Literature to 1865 3ENGL 376American Literature 1865-19143
ENGL 379B Studies in American Literature 1700-1900 3ENGL 381BComparative American Literature 1700 - 19003
ENGL 382B Studies in American Culture 1700-1900 3ENGL 384BStudies in African American Literature, 1700-19003
 
English Literature Since 1900
Code Title Hours
ENGL 282C African-American Literature since 1900 3ENGL 306CStudies in Women Writers Since 19003
ENGL 312C Studies in World Literature in English Since 1900 3ENGL 313CBorder Literature Since 19003
ENGL 315C South Asian Literature Since 1900 3ENGL 316CCaribbean Literature in English Since 19003
ENGL 344 Studies in Modernism 3ENGL 345British Literature Since 19003
ENGL 348 Studies in British Literature Since 1900 3ENGL 351Contemporary Literature3
ENGL 359C High and Low Culture Since 1900 3ENGL 361Modernist Poetry3
ENGL 362C Studies in Poetry Since 1900 3ENGL 367Modern Drama3
ENGL 368C Studies in Drama Since 1900 3ENGL 371The Modern Novel3
ENGL 372C Studies in Fiction Since 1900 3ENGL 377American Literature 1914-19453
ENGL 379 Studies in American Literature 3ENGL 379CStudies in American Literature Since 19003
ENGL 381C Comparative American Literature Since 1900 3ENGL 382CStudies in American Culture Since 19003
ENGL 384C Studies in African American Literature Since 1900 3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
Unlike other students in the English Department, English/Secondary
Education majors do not take courses in their last semester of their
senior year, as they are student-teaching full time. All coursework
should be ﬁnished prior to this semester. Students should plan ontaking  ENGL 293 Advanced Writing  and ENGL 294 Writing in/with New
Media  during their ﬁrst or second year. Students should take their
critical theory course (either ENGL 354 Contemporary Critical Theory  or
ENGL 355 Studies in Literary Criticism ) and their advanced seminar
ENGL 390 Advanced Seminar  during their third or fourth year. Students
should work with their advisors, in the English Department as well as the
School of Education, to devise a schedule that best suits their needs.
Transfer-Student Residency Requirement
At least 18 credit hours of ENGL courses must be completed at Loyola.
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Learning Outcomes
English/Secondary Education  majors will:
•be able to perform close readings of literature and other kinds of
texts, paying careful attention to textual detail.
•demonstrate an understanding of human diversity as it is represented
in literature and other kinds of texts.
•be able to communicate their ideas clearly, in writing that employs
appropriate word choice, diction, structure, and mechanics.
•be able to create focused and well-supported arguments and
analyses.
•where applicable, demonstrate their understanding of literary and
cultural theories by incorporating them into their work in precise and
effective ways.
•where applicable, demonstrate their ability to employ in their own
creative works their understanding of the conventions and techniques
of particular literary genres.
•where applicable, demonstrate their knowledge of textual genres,
histories, movements, traditions, and innovations.
•demonstrate an understanding of how texts reflect and affect
societies and cultures.
•have proﬁciency in all of these outcomes sufﬁcient to teach English
at the high school level.
English Honors
The English Honors Program
To graduate with honors in English, students in the English Honors
Program must take three Advanced Seminars ( ENGL 390 Advanced
Seminar  or ENGL 395 Honors Tutorial ), all of which count towards
the major either as electives or as courses satisfying historical period
requirements. Students in the Creative Writing Concentration may
substitute one Advanced Workshop ( ENGL 392 Advanced Creative
Nonﬁction Workshop , ENGL 397 Advanced Writing Workshop: Poetry ,
or ENGL 398 Advanced Writing Workshop: Fiction ) for ENGL 390
Advanced Seminar . In order to be admitted to the English Honors
Program, a student should have completed at least two English courses
beyond composition and must have an average of at least 3.4 in all
English courses. The student must maintain this average throughout

--- Page 377 ---
408  English Minor
the program. In some cases, ENGL 399 Special Studies in Literature
(Independent Study) can be substituted for one of the honors tutorials.
Students interested in the English Honors Program should contact the
director of undergraduate programs.
Sigma Tau Delta
Loyola sponsors a chapter of Sigma Tau Delta, the International English
Honor Society. Sigma Tau Delta, a member of the Association of College
Honor Societies, confers distinction for high achievement in the study
of the English language and of literature in English, promotes interest in
such study, and encourages creative and critical writing. Active members
receive and have the opportunity to contribute to the society's award-
winning literary publication, The Rectangle , and are eligible to compete
for writing awards and scholarships. To be eligible for membership in
Loyola's chapter, students must major or minor in English, have at least a
B average in English, rank in the highest 35 percent of their class overall
and have completed three semesters. New members are inducted in the
spring. Interested students should contact the director of undergraduate
programs.
English Minor
The English minor equips students with essential skills, concepts, and
experiences for the modern world, in a compact and flexible format. In
addition to literary analysis in both traditional and contemporary forms,
the minor helps students explore historical and cultural developments,
invites them into the worlds of textual studies and digital humanities, and
creative writing in a diverse array of genres. All courses at all levels of the
program encourage students to become clear and effective writers.
Related Programs
Major
•English (BA)  (p. 404)
Combined
•English (BA/BSED)  (p. 406)
•English (BA/MA)  (p. 1095 )
Curriculum
The English minor consists of six courses (18 hours), four of which (12
hours) should be 300-level. Up to two courses may be drawn from UCLR
100-E and advanced 200-level (ENGL 270 and above) courses.
Code Title Hours
UCLR 100E Interpreting Literature - English (or an advanced
200-level course of ENGL 270 or above)3ENGL 270 or above3
English 300-Level Course 3English 300-Level Course3
English 300-Level Course 3English 300-Level Course3Total Hours18
A list of undergraduate English courses can be found here  (p. 393).
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The English minor is deliberately flexible. Though most (4) of the
minor should be done at the 300 level, students are welcome to pursue
their interests across our courses, including courses on literary study,advanced writing, and creative writing workshops. There is no required
or suggested sequence of courses: students are encouraged to reach
out to their advisor in the Department of English or the Director of
Undergraduate Programs in English for advice in crafting a path through
the minor that is rewarding for them.
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Learning Outcomes
English minors will:
•be able to perform close readings of literature and other kinds of
texts, paying careful attention to textual detail.
•demonstrate an understanding of human diversity as it is represented
in literature and other kinds of texts.
•be able to communicate their ideas clearly, in writing that employs
appropriate word choice, diction, structure, and mechanics.
•be able to create focused and well-supported arguments and
analyses.
•where applicable, demonstrate their understanding of literary and
cultural theories by incorporating them into their work in precise and
effective ways.
•where applicable, demonstrate their ability to employ in their own
creative works their understanding of the conventions and techniques
of particular literary genres.
•where applicable, demonstrate their knowledge of textual genres,
histories, movements, traditions, and innovations.
•demonstrate an understanding of how texts reflect and affect
societies and cultures.
English with a Creative Writing
Concentration (BA)
The Creative Writing Concentration is offered within the regular English
major, and is intended for students interested in and committed both to
their own creative work (ﬁction, poetry, and creative nonﬁction) and to the
study of literature from a writer's point of view.
Related Programs
Major
•English (BA)  (p. 404)
Minor
•English Minor  (p. 408)
Curriculum
Students can begin the English with a Creative Writing Concentration
(BA) degree at any point in their undergraduate studies, in consultation
with their adviser. The major is designed to be flexible, engaging students
with a writing workshops in poetry, prose, and creative nonﬁction, as
well as courses on literature from diverse historical, national, and global
traditions.  There is no set sequence of courses, though students may
wish to begin their introductory workshops ( ENGL 317 , ENGL 318 ,
and ENGL 319 ) early on, in order to prepare them for their Advanced
Workshops ( ENGL 392 , ENGL 397 , and ENGL 398 ). Students may also

--- Page 378 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 409
wish to take ENGL 354 Contemporary Critical Theory  or ENGL 355
Studies in Literary Criticism  early on, since these courses make them
more conscious of what it means to read literature. Once students have
declared the major, they are encouraged to contact their adviser in the
English Department or the Department’s Undergraduate Program Director
for further guidance on how best to progress with their studies.
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesENGL 317The Writing of Poetry3
ENGL 318 The Writing of Fiction 3
or ENGL 318R The Writing of Fiction: Writing RomeENGL 319Writing Creative Nonﬁction3or ENGL 357Literature from a Writer's Perspective
ENGL 326 Shakespeare: Selected Major Plays 3
or ENGL 327 Studies in ShakespeareENGL 354Contemporary Critical Theory3or ENGL 355Studies in Literary Criticism
English Literature Before 1900  (p. 409) (See List) 9At least one course prior to 1700At least one course after 1700English Literature Since 1900  (p. 409) (See List)3
ENGL Elective  23Capstone  36
Select two of the following:ENGL 392Advanced Creative Nonﬁction WorkshopENGL 397 Advanced Writing Workshop: PoetryENGL 398Advanced Writing Workshop: FictionTotal Hours36
1Depending on the subject matter, the following courses may be
included in any one of the historical periods:  ENGL 362 Studies in
Poetry , ENGL 368 Studies in Drama , ENGL 372 Studies in Fiction ,
ENGL 379 Studies in American Literature , ENGL 381 Comparative
American Literature , ENGL 382 Studies in American Culture , or
ENGL 384 Studies in African American Literature .
2UCLR 100E Interpreting Literature - English  may count as the required
ENGL elective.
3Students may repeat any advanced workshop twice.
English Literature Before 1900
Code Title Hours
Choose at least one course prior to 1700ENGL 306AStudies in Women Writers Before 17003
ENGL 312A Studies in World Literature in English Before 1700 3ENGL 313ABorder Literature Before 17003
ENGL 320 English Literature: Medieval Period 3ENGL 321Intro to Anglo-Saxon3
ENGL 322 Chaucer 3ENGL 323Studies in Medieval Literature3
ENGL 325 British Literature-The Renaissance 3ENGL 327Studies in Shakespeare3
ENGL 328 Studies in The Renaissance 3ENGL 329Milton3ENGL 359A High and Low Culture Before 1700 3ENGL 362AStudies in Poetry Before 17003
ENGL 368A Studies in Drama Before 1700 3ENGL 369AWomen in Drama Before 17003
ENGL 372A Studies in Fiction Before 1700 3ENGL 379AStudies in American Literature Before 17003
ENGL 381A Comparative Literature Before 1700 3ENGL 382AStudies in American Culture Before 17003
Choose at least one course after 1700ENGL 282BAfrican-American Literature 1700-19003
ENGL 306B Studies in Women Writers 1700-1900 3ENGL 312BStudies in World Literature in English 1700-19003
ENGL 313B Border Literature 1700-1900 3ENGL 338Studies in The Romantic Movmnt3
ENGL 340 British Literature - The Victorian Period 3ENGL 343Studies in the Victorian Period3
ENGL 359B High and Low Culture 1700-1900 3ENGL 362BStudies in Poetry 1700-19003
ENGL 363B Major Author, 1700-1900 3ENGL 368BStudies in Drama 1700-19003
ENGL 369B Women in Drama 1700-1900 3ENGL 372BStudies in Fiction 1700-19003
ENGL 375 American Literature to 1865 3ENGL 376American Literature 1865-19143
ENGL 379B Studies in American Literature 1700-1900 3ENGL 381BComparative American Literature 1700 - 19003
ENGL 382B Studies in American Culture 1700-1900 3ENGL 384BStudies in African American Literature, 1700-19003
 
English Literature Since 1900
Code Title Hours
ENGL 282C African-American Literature since 1900 3ENGL 306CStudies in Women Writers Since 19003
ENGL 312C Studies in World Literature in English Since 1900 3ENGL 313CBorder Literature Since 19003
ENGL 315C South Asian Literature Since 1900 3ENGL 316CCaribbean Literature in English Since 19003
ENGL 344 Studies in Modernism 3ENGL 345British Literature Since 19003
ENGL 348 Studies in British Literature Since 1900 3ENGL 351Contemporary Literature3
ENGL 359C High and Low Culture Since 1900 3ENGL 361Modernist Poetry3
ENGL 362C Studies in Poetry Since 1900 3ENGL 363CMajor Author, After 19003
ENGL 367 Modern Drama 3ENGL 368CStudies in Drama Since 19003
ENGL 371 The Modern Novel 3ENGL 372CStudies in Fiction Since 19003
ENGL 377 American Literature 1914-1945 3ENGL 379Studies in American Literature3

--- Page 379 ---
410  European Studies Interdisciplinary Program
ENGL 379C Studies in American Literature Since 1900 3ENGL 381CComparative American Literature Since 19003
ENGL 382C Studies in American Culture Since 1900 3ENGL 384CStudies in African American Literature Since 19003
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
English Creative Writing Majors will:
•Demonstrate their understanding of literary and cultural theories by
incorporating them into their work in precise and effective ways.
•Demonstrate their ability to employ in their own creative works
their understanding of the conventions and techniques of particular
literary genres.
•Demonstrate their ability to employ in their own creative works
their knowledge of textual histories, movements, traditions, and
innovations.
•Be able to perform close readings of literature and other kinds of
texts, paying careful attention to textual detail.
•Demonstrate an understanding of human diversity as it is represented
in literature and other kinds of texts.
•Be able to communicate their ideas clearly, in writing that employs
appropriate word choice, diction, structure, and mechanics.
•Be able to create focused and well-supported arguments and
analyses.
•Demonstrate an understanding of how texts reflect and affect
societies and cultures.
European Studies Interdisciplinary
Program
The College of Arts and Sciences' interdisciplinary European Studies
Minor explores the history, politics, economics, and cultures of the
peoples of Europe from ancient times to the present.
It is designed to appeal to students who are interested in gaining a
deeper understanding of European nations, cultures, and people, who
want to explore their own European heritage, or to complement their
majors in areas such as Anthropology, Classics, Fine and Performing Arts,
History, Global Studies, Modern Languages and Literatures, Philosophy,
Political Science, Sociology, or Theology.Undergraduate Programs
•European Studies Minor  (p. 410)
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
European Studies (EURO) 
EURO 101   Introduction to European Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course serves as an introduction to the interdisciplinary ﬁeld of
European studies. It provides an overview of the major disciplines
represented in the program, introduces the main approaches covered
in the program, and discusses some of the most important topics
involving European states, regions, and the European Union. Restricted to
European Studies minors.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain a basic understanding of how different disciplines
contribute to the study of Europe at the state, sub-state and supra-state
levels
EURO 301   European Studies Capstone   (3 Credit Hours)   
This capstone class is intended to provide seniors a chance to reflect
on what they have learned as European Studies minors by focusing on a
particular theme. The class takes an interdisciplinary and cross-national
approach. Students develop a major research project. Restricted to
Juniors and Seniors minoring in European Studies.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Through this course students will gain an understanding of the ways in
which various ﬁelds and their approaches to European Studies can help
answer speciﬁc important questions about the region
European Studies Minor
The College of Arts and Sciences' interdisciplinary European Studies
Minor explores the history, politics, economics, and cultures of the
peoples of Europe from ancient times to the present.
It is designed to appeal to students who are interested in gaining a
deeper understanding of European nations, cultures, and people, who
want to explore their own European heritage, or to complement their
majors in areas such as Anthropology, Classics, Fine and Performing Arts,
History, Global Studies, Modern Languages and Literatures, Philosophy,
Political Science, Sociology, or Theology.
Our students will ﬁnd the chance to mold their own minor liberating as
there are only 2 required courses taken alongside 4 electives selected
from over 150 course options across over 15 departments and programs.
The program is highly flexible and can easily accommodate a semester or
full year spent studying abroad.
Related Programs
Minor
•Asian Studies Minor  (p. 277)
•Latin American and Latino Studies Minor  (p. 519)

--- Page 380 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 411
Curriculum
The European Studies minor requires students to complete six courses
totaling at least 18 credit hours.  Students must also complete at least
the 104-level in a modern European Language. In terms of European
languages, the Department of Modern Languages and Literatures at
Loyola offers instruction in French, German, Italian, Polish, Russian,
and Spanish. Students having learned a different European language
may submit a Language Competency Exam at or above the 104-level.
Alternatively, students may request approval from the Director of
European Studies for certiﬁcation of this requirement; this last option is
primarily intended for bilingual, native speakers of a European language
where sitting for an exam is not necessary.
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesHIST 102Cultures, Powers, and Identities: Western Ideas
and Institutions since 17003
PLSC 347 The European Union 3Elective Courses  (p.  )Select four elective courses listed below.12Total Hours18
Elective Courses
Students must take four electives from the courses listed below. This
list is based on courses suggested by the respective department chairs
in conjunction with the Euro Program Director. At least two of these
electives need to be at the 300-level. To promote the interdisciplinary
nature of the program, no more than two electives may be taken from
any one department. In conjunction with the required courses listed
above, this means that no more than three courses in total may be taken
from any one department and applied to the European Studies minor. In
accordance with the College's current double-dipping policy, "no fewer
than 8 credit hours ... must be unique to" the minor. This effectively
means that of the 6 courses taken in total for the minor, 3 must be
uniquely and solely applied to the minor and cannot be double counted
towards any other major or minor.
Anthropology
Code Title Hours
ANTH 222 Culture in Contemporary Europe 3ANTH 328Pompeii and Herculaneum3
ANTH 334 Intro to Classical Archaeology 3
Classical Studies
Code Title Hours
CLST 206 Art of Ancient Greece 13CLST 207Art of the Roman World 13
CLST 241 Religions of Ancient Greece 3CLST 271Classical Mythology 23
CLST 271G Classical Mythology - Women/Gender Focus 23CLST 271RClassical Mythology - Rome Focus 23
CLST 272 Heroes & the Classical Epics 3CLST 273Classical Tragedy3
CLST 273G Classical Tragedy - Women/Gender Focus 3CLST 274World of Archaic Greece 33
CLST 275 World of Classical Greece 33CLST 276World of Classical Rome 33CLST 277 World of Late Antiquity 33CLST 304History of Ancient Philosophy3
CLST 308 History of Rome to Constantine 3CLST 309Greece to Alexander the Great3
CLST 315 Alexander & Hellenistic World 3CLST 316Western Patristic Thought3
CLST 318 Transformations of Rome in Late Antiquity 3CLST 328Pompeii and Herculaneum3
CLST 334 Intro to Classical Archeology 3CLST 361Roman Political Theory & Practice3
CLST 362 Roman Law 3CLST 363Law & Legislature-Ancient Greece3
CLST 373 Daily Life in Ancient Greece 3CLST 374Private Life of Ancient Romans3
CLST 378 Sport in Ancient Greece & Rome 3CLST 383The Humanism of Antiquity I3
CLST 384 The Humanism of Antiquity II 3CLST 385Historical Classic Greek Literature to 200 A.D3
CLST 386 History of Classical Roman Lit 3CLST 395Topography of Rome3
1Also satisﬁes CAS Core Requirement Knowledge Area: AKE
2Also satisﬁes CAS Core Requirement Knowledge Area: LKE Tier 2
3Also satisﬁes CAS Core Requirement Knowledge Area: HE Tier 2
English
Code Title Hours
ENGL 320 English Literature: Medieval Period 3ENGL 321Intro to Anglo-Saxon3
ENGL 322 Chaucer 3ENGL 323Studies in Medieval Literature3
ENGL 325 British Literature-The Renaissance 3ENGL 326Shakespeare: Selected Major Plays3
ENGL 327 Studies in Shakespeare 3ENGL 328Studies in The Renaissance3
ENGL 329 Milton 3ENGL 335British Literature - The Romantic Period3
ENGL 338 Studies in The Romantic Movmnt 3ENGL 340British Literature - The Victorian Period3
ENGL 343 Studies in the Victorian Period 3ENGL 344Studies in Modernism3
ENGL 345 British Literature Since 1900 3ENGL 348Studies in British Literature Since 19003
ENGL 367 Modern Drama 3
Fine and Performing Arts
Code Title Hours
FNAR 200 Global Art History: Prehistoric to 600 CE 13FNAR 201Global Art History: 600-1800CE 13
FNAR 202 Global Art History: Modern Art 13FNAR 304Paris in the Nineteenth Century3
FNAR 342 Art in Rome 13FNAR 343Baroque Art3

--- Page 381 ---
412  European Studies Minor
FNAR 344 Early Italian Renaissance Art 3FNAR 345Italian High Renaissance and Mannerist Art3
FNAR 349 Art and the Catholic Tradition 3FNAR 360Picturing Women in Renaissance and Baroque Art3
1Also satisﬁes CAS Core Requirement Knowledge Area: AKE
French
Code Title Hours
FREN 270 Main Currents of French Literature & Culture I 3FREN 271Main Currents of French Literature & Culture II3
FREN 311 French Modernity 3FREN 316Renaissance France3
FREN 317 Le Grand Siècle 3FREN 318Enlightenment France3
FREN 319 Romantic Century 3FREN 340Survey of Prose: Fictional & Non-Fictional3
German
Code Title Hours
GERM 270 Modern German Literature and Culture I 3GERM 271Modern German Literature and Culture II3
GERM 370 German Cinema 3
Global Studies
Code Title Hours
GLST 370 Internship in Global Studies 3If the internship is Europe-related, up to 3 credits can be applied the
Euro minorHistory
Code Title Hours
HIST 253A Barbarians and the Fall of the Roman Empire 3HIST 254AThe Vikings3
HIST 257A Witchcraft and Science in Pre-Modern Europe 3HIST 258ABlood, Heresy, and Treason: The Tudors and
Stuarts3
HIST 265A The First World War 3HIST 267AModern German Culture and Ideas I3
HIST 267B Modern German Culture and Ideas II 3HIST 300CTopics in European History (Post-1700)3
HIST 300E Topics in World History 3HIST 303Pre-Industrial City in Europe3
HIST 307 Greece to Alexander the Great 3HIST 308AHistory of Rome to Constantine3
HIST 308B Pompeii and Herculaneum 3HIST 308DTransformations of Rome in Late Antiquity3
HIST 310G Supernatural in the Middle Ages 3HIST 311BThe Crusades: Christianity and Islam3
HIST 314 Renaissance 3HIST 314AThe Jesuits: Life and History3
HIST 315 The Reformation 3HIST 316History of Poland3
HIST 317 Age of Absolutism & the Enlightenment 3HIST 318AEarly Modern England 1485-17603
HIST 318B English Social History 1450-1750 3HIST 318CLondon 1550 - 17153
HIST 320 Era French Revolution & Napoleon 3HIST 32119th Century European Culture and Ideas3
HIST 322 Modern France: From Empire to Postcolonial
Nation3HIST 324Italy 19th & 20th Centuries3
HIST 325 Modern Britain: Empire, Industry, Democracy 3HIST 325AThe British Empire: From Barbados to Brexit3
HIST 326 Ireland: Colony to Nation State 3HIST 327AThe Balkans: History, Fiction, Film3
HIST 328 Russia Pre-1917: Empire Building 3HIST 328ARussian Empire and Literature3
HIST 329C Empire, Sex, Violence: European Colonial History 3HIST 329NModern European Nationalism: Myth and Reality3
HIST 330 Europe in the Age of Catastrophe, 1900-1945 3HIST 330FFascinating Fascism:  1919 to the Present3
HIST 334A The Nazi Revolution 3HIST 334BThe Holocaust: History and Memory3
HIST 335 The Second World War 3HIST 336Contemporary Europe 1945 to Present3
HIST 337 Rise & Fall of Soviet Union 3HIST 337AWomen in Russia and Eurasia, 1860-Present3
HIST 338A History of European Communism 3HIST 338BEastern Europe in the 20th Century3
HIST 339C Modern Europe and the Arts 3HIST 359DThe Ottoman Empire: A Global Perspective3
HIST 359E Concentration Camps: A Global History 3
1Also satisﬁes CAS Core Requirement Knowledge Area: HE Tier 1
Honors Program
Code Title Hours
HONR 216B Encountering Contemporary Europe 3
Italian
Code Title Hours
ITAL 270 Main Currents of Italian Literature I 3ITAL 271Main Currents of Italian Literature II3
ITAL 312 Dante-The Divine Comedy 3ITAL 317Survey Early 19th Century Literature3
ITAL 318 Survey Late 19th Cent Lit 3ITAL 319Survey of 20th Century Prose3
ITAL 340 Italian Short Story 3ITAL 390Culture & Civilization3
Literature
Code Title Hours
LITR 161 Introduction to Italian Culture 3LITR 200European Masterpieces 13
LITR 202 European Novel 13LITR 203European Drama3
LITR 204 European Film 3

--- Page 382 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 413LITR 221Polish Authors3
LITR 230 German Masterpieces 3LITR 260Italian Masterpieces3
LITR 262 Modern Italian Novel 3LITR 264Italian Film Genre 23
LITR 267 Italian Film History 3LITR 268Italy: Cultural History3
LITR 268R Italian Culture: Food & Wine 3LITR 291Italian & Italian-American Women Writers3
1Also satisﬁes CAS Core Requirement Knowledge Area: LKE Tier 2
2Also satisﬁes CAS Core Requirement Knowledge Area: AKE
Music
Code Title Hours
MUSC 252 Music History I 3MUSC 353Music History II3
Philosophy
Code Title Hours
PHIL 304 History of Ancient Philosophy 3PHIL 305Medieval Philosophy3
PHIL 306 19th Century Philosophy 3PHIL 30713th & 14th Century Philosophy3
PHIL 309 Classical Modern Philosophy 3PHIL 360Contemporary European Philosophy3
Political Science
Code Title Hours
PLSC 232 Politics of the United Kingdom 3PLSC 306Modern Political Thought3
PLSC 348 Soviet & Post-Soviet Politics 3PLSC 349Eastern European Politics3
PLSC 360 Western European Politics 3PLSC 365Italian Politics & Government3
PLSC 371 Roman Law 3
Spanish
Code Title Hours
SPAN 270 Introduction to Critical Analysis in Spanish 3SPAN 271Introduction to Iberian Literature and Culture3
SPAN 311 Generation of 1898 3SPAN 314Survey of Medieval Literature3
SPAN 319 Romanticism 3SPAN 326Theater of The Golden Age3
SPAN 331 20th Century Poetry 3SPAN 340Survey Prose-Fictional & Nonﬁction3
SPAN 341 20th Century Spanish Literature 3SPAN 346Prose of The Golden Age3
SPAN 347 Cervantes Don Quijote 3SPAN 349Realism and Naturalism3
SPAN 366 Spanish Cinema 3SPAN 368Baroque and Neobaroque3Theology
Code Title Hours
THEO 100 Christian Theology 13THEO 317Christian Thought: Ancient-Medieval3
THEO 318 Christian Thought: Reformation to Modern 3
1Also satisﬁes CAS Core Requirement Knowledge Area: TRL Tier 1
Theater
Code Title Hours
THTR 365 Theatre History and Literature II 3THTR 366Theatre History and Literature III3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Sequence 1
First Semester
HIST 102 
or EURO 101Culture, Power and Identity: Western Ideas
& Institutions from 17th Century 
or Introduction to European Studies3Elective3 Hours6
Second SemesterPLSC 347The European Union3Elective3 Hours6
Third Semester
Elective 3Elective3 Hours6 Total Hours18
Learning Outcomes
Students completing a European Studies Minor will:
•Acquire a general awareness of the impact that Europe has had on
global affairs and conversely, the effects of global forces on Europe.
•Possess general knowledge of the common cultural heritage found in
Europe as well as the diversity of culture found within Europe.
•Understand the factors that have shaped Europe politically, socially,
and economically throughout history.
•Acquire a basic understanding of present-day European institutions.
•Be prepared to complement their European studies at the Loyola
campus with more in-depth "on the ground" study of a speciﬁc
European country, to further their knowledge of that country's
language, culture, history and to better understand the political, social
and economic problems confronting it.

--- Page 383 ---
414  Fine and Performing Arts
Fine and Performing Arts
The Department of Fine and Performing Arts (DFPA) is comprised of
four distinct areas of study: Dance  (http://luc.edu/dance/ ), Fine Arts
(http://luc.edu/ﬁnearts/ ), Music  (http://luc.edu/music/ ), and Theatre
(http://luc.edu/theatre/ ). These areas are combined to promote dynamic
artistic and academic opportunities for our students. Approximately 80
full and part time faculty members, actively involved in creative work,
performance, and independent scholarship, teach and train over 400
student majors and minors in the department.
Students can choose a course of study from any of our 8 different majors
or 11 different minors, or simply choose to explore a class in the art that
interests them.
Our students are challenged to attentively experience and critically
engage different aesthetic experiences, to develop and improve
communication skills, and to relate the artistic experience to other
ﬁelds. Our undergraduate programs prepare students for graduate work
and employment in many dynamic cultural professions. The academic
programs of the DFPA are complemented throughout the year by over 100
public presentations, performances, and exhibitions.
Our Mission
The Department of Fine and Performing Arts engages the transformative
power of art to enrich the individual and connect communities. We
provide students with theory and skill-based instruction within the
context of a strong Jesuit liberal arts curriculum, and we engage
audiences through extensive public programming in Dance, Fine Arts,
Music, and Theatre. For more information, contact us at dfpa@luc.edu .
Undergraduate Programs
•Art History (BA)  (p. 441)
•Art History Minor  (p. 443)
•Dance (BA)  (p. 444)
•Dance Minor  (p. 446)
•Drawing, Painting and Printmaking (BA)  (p. 446)
•Drawing, Painting and Printmaking Minor  (p. 448)
•Music (BA)  (p. 449)
•Music Minor  (p. 450)
•Music with a Concentration in Jazz Studies (BA)  (p. 452)
•Music with a Concentration in Liturgical Music (BA)  (p. 453)
•Music with a Concentration in Vocal Performance (BA)  (p. 454)
•Musical Theatre Minor  (p. 456)
•Photography and Video Art (BA)  (p. 459)
•Photography and Video Art Minor  (p. 460)
•Sculpture and Ceramics (BA)  (p. 461)
•Sculpture and Ceramics Minor  (p. 462)
•Shakespeare Studies Minor  (p. 464)
•Studio Art Minor  (p. 465)
•Teaching Artist Minor  (p. 466)
•Theatre (BA)  (p. 467)
•Theatre Minor  (p. 469)
•Visual Communication (BA)  (p. 470)
•Visual Communication Minor  (p. 471)Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
ARTS (ARTS)
ARTS 200   Introduction to Teaching Artistry   (3 Credit Hours)   
Introduction to teaching artistry with an emphasis on art education, art
integration and community-based arts practices.
Outcomes:
Students will identify and describe the practice of teaching artistry, reflect
on a direct experience with an art organization, and create a lesson plan
ARTS 201   Grant Writing for the Arts   (2 Credit Hours)   
Introduction to grant writing for the arts. The course concludes with a
completed grant proposal.
Outcomes:
Students will identify how to ﬁnd grants that support the arts and engage
in the process of applying for a grant or other arts funding
ARTS 397   Fieldwork in Arts Education   (3 Credit Hours)   
Credit given for arts education work outside the university undertaken
under the guidance professional arts educators. Students keep an hour
and activity log and write reflective evaluative papers. Permission of the
Department of Fine and Performing Arts Speciﬁc outcomes and credit
hours assigned to be determined by the student in consultation with the
Teaching Artistry Faculty Coordinator and the project supervisor
DANCE (DANC)
DANC 111   Ballet I: Introduction to Ballet Theory and Technique   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Ballet I is designed to introduce the concepts and vocabulary of ballet
with a focus on developing student's body awareness and control.
Students will learn about the art form of ballet in relationship to theatre,
music and other forms of dance.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Course equivalencies:  THTR111/DANC111   
Outcomes:
Students will improve their posture, flexibility and coordination; They
will develop a reference for enjoying ballet performances and create a
foundation for further dance training
DANC 121   Modern Dance I: Theories and Techniques   (3 Credit Hours)   
Modern Dance I is designed to increase student's body awareness,
strength, flexibility and musicality. The course studies the technique and
theory of Fall and Recovery developed by Doris Humphrey.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Course equivalencies:  THTR121/DANC121   
Outcomes:
Students will develop a basic dance technique and be able to describe
and demonstrate the differences between modern dance and ballet; They
will understand the history of the development of modern dance as a
uniquely American art form

--- Page 384 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 415
DANC 131   Jazz Dance I: Theories and Techniques   (3 Credit Hours)   
Jazz I is designed to increase the student's body awareness, enjoyment
of movement and appreciation of Jazz dance in theatrical productions.
May be repeated once for credit.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Course equivalencies:  THTR131/DANC131   
Outcomes:
Students will improve their strength, coordination, flexibility and correct
posture; They will develop basic skills and vocabulary for performing Jazz
movements and a framework to view dance in theatrical productions
DANC 212   Ballet Dance II: Theory and Technique   (2 Credit Hours)   
Prerequisite Skills: Students should be familiar with the ﬁve feet and
arm positions and be able to work in 5th position of the feet. Dancers
should demonstrate correct alignment of the pelvis and spine in plie
and releve and while working at the barre. Dancer must be able to
execute correct articulation of the feet and leg in tendu. They should be
familiar with basic petite allegro and action of the feet, hips and legs
while jumping. This is a continuing ballet class designed to build on
established vocabulary and movement fundamentals with emphasis on
ballet as a theatrical art form.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  THTR212/DANC212   
Outcomes:
This class further develops strength, posture, flexibility and coordination;
Progressions include more work en relev at the barre, development
of leg extensions, single leg jumping and more complex movement
combinations; Students will develop awareness of a dancer's role in a
ballet production
DANC 213   Ballet III: Advanced Continuing Ballet   (2 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisite skills: Student must demonstrate correct alignment and
articulation at the barre and in the center when standing in ﬁrst or ﬁfth
position. Student should have introductory proﬁciency in pirouettes
en dehors and en dedans as well as petit allegro. This course serves
students who have achieved proﬁciency in the basic elements of
Continuing Ballet, but need to develop skills to meet the Intermediate
level. Course focuses on reinforcing foundational technique in alignment
and articulation and provides opportunities to develop strength,
coordination and vocabulary required to advance to 311 Intermediate
Ballet.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will increase their awareness of overall dance alignment and
articulation; They will develop strength, coordination and vocabulary
preparing them for Intermediate Ballet; Students will enhance their ability
to travel across the floor as well as conduct pirouettes; Adagio work in
the center and grand allegro is introducedDANC 222   Modern Dance II: Theory and Technique   (2 Credit Hours)   
Prerequisite Skills: Dancers should be able to maintain correct alignment
of the legs, back and pelvis standing and shifting their weight. Must be
familiar with 1st and 2nd position of the legs and demonstrate basic
articulation of the legs in tendu and jumping. This course is designed
to further increase student's body awareness, strength, flexibility and
musicality. We will study the technique and theory of Fall and Recovery
developed by Doris Humphrey as well as learn short excerpts of repertory
to be analyzed. May be repeated once for credit.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  THTR222/DANC222   
Outcomes:
Students will further develop their modern dance technique and be
able to execute more physically challenging falls and longer and more
complex movement combinations
DANC 224   Majors Modern II   (1 Credit Hour)   
This course is designed for Dance majors to increase their body
awareness, strength, flexibility and musicality through the study the
technique and theory of Fall and Recovery developed by Doris Humphrey.
Restricted to Dance Majors.
Outcomes:
Students will develop their modern dance technique including falls and
longer and more complex movement combinations; They will further their
understanding of spatial patterns and musicality
DANC 232   Jazz Dance II: Theories and Techniques   (2 Credit Hours)   
Prerequisite Skills: Dancers should demonstrate correct placement of
the legs, back and pelvis standing and in plié. They should be able to
demonstrate basic jazz turns, jazz runs and pas de bourée. Dancers
need to use correct position and opposition of the arms in combinations.
Jazz II is designed to further develop student's technical ability and
awareness of Jazz dance in theatrical productions. Students will learn
about professional Jazz dance in Chicago and improve their strength,
coordination, flexibility and correct posture in increasingly complex
combinations applying the vocabulary and principles of jazz dance. May
be repeated once for credit.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  THTR232/DANC232   
Outcomes:
Students will improve their dance technique, performance skills and
appreciation of Chicago's rich tradition of Jazz dance performance
DANC 240   Dance Practicum   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  THTR 253   
Students apply stagecraft for dance in a variety of domains: costuming,
lighting, electrics and sound. They will work as running crew for a
mainstage dance production.
Outcomes:
Students will acquire a variety of skills necessary for producing dance;
including collaboration and organization skills and will gain appreciation
for the complexity dance production

--- Page 385 ---
416  Fine and Performing Arts
DANC 250   Historical Contexts in Contemporary Dance Practice   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Must be a Dance major or Dance minor   
This course surveys historical flashpoints in the evolution of American
contemporary dance. It provides a critical framework for interrogating
cultural and sociopolitical influences on concert dance practice and
performance. Students will analyze intersecting aesthetics originating
from the French courts of Catherine de Medici and Louis XIV, the
Atlantic slave trade and Asian theatrical dance forms such as kabuki
and bharatanatyam in the development of ballet, modern, tap, jazz and
musical theater dance.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to identify historical ﬁgures and events that
have signiﬁcantly influenced American theatrical dance; This course
gives students the ability describe and interpret dance history by
contextualizing sociopolitical and cultural influences on the evolution
of dance aesthetics while applying critical race, queer and feminist
theoretical frameworks to their understanding of contemporary dance in
America
DANC 260   Topics in Dance   (2 Credit Hours)   
This course is a studio course that explores the theories and techniques
of various dance forms. A speciﬁc dance genre will be selected each time
the course is offered. The course may be repeated two times for credit.
Outcomes:
The student will gain a historical perspective on the dance form
presented, as well as demonstrate speciﬁc skills required of the dance
form
DANC 261   Topics in Applied Dance   (1-2 Credit Hours)   
This is an all-inclusive heading for courses rarely offered that serve under
the Applied Technique designation for the Dance Minor.
Outcomes:
Each offering will provide discipline-speciﬁc vocabulary and applied skill
acquisition
DANC 270   Dance Kinesiology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Must be an enrolled Dance Major or Dance Minor   
The purpose of this class is to present dancers with basic knowledge
of the anatomy, physiology, and biomechanics of human movement in
dance and non-dance applications.
Outcomes:
Students participate in lecture, physical practice, group and individual
projects to understand the mechanisms for dance movement and how
movement patterns contribute to the presence or absence of dance
injuries
DANC 275   Global Influences on Contemporary Dance Practice   (2 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Must be Dance Major or Dance Minor or have instructor
approval   
This seminar-styled course provides essential experience and
knowledge through applied study of diverse lenses and movement styles
contributing to contemporary dance practice.
Outcomes:
Identify, Demonstrate and Discuss non-western influences on
contemporary dance choreography and practiceDANC 280   Dance & Disability: Interdisciplinary Theory & Applied
Movement Practices   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores interdisciplinary theory and applied innovation at
the intersection of movement, science, and community engagement.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate a working knowledge of best interdisciplinary
practices in disability dance practices, and will develop strategies that
address the physical, social, and cultural implications of physically
integrated dance in multiple settings
DANC 312   Pointe I: Theory and Techniques   (1 Credit Hour)   
Co-requisites:  DANC 213 or 341   
This course is practice-oriented and builds on dancers' knowledge of
ballet vocabulary, alignment, and strength. Pointework is geared towards
the development of a higher level of articulation in classical footwork.
Outcomes:
The student will gain a deeper understanding of ballet technique en
pointe, as well as demonstrate speciﬁc skills required of the dance form
DANC 314   Pointe II: Continuing Pointework   (1 Credit Hour)   
This is a studio class that explores ballet technique en pointe. This
course is to be taken concurrently with DANC 313 Ballet V Advanced
Ballet or 343 Advanced Majors Ballet. Students must be enrolled in
Advanced Ballet to be eligible for enrollment in Pointe II. This course
explores continuing ballet technique en pointe. It requires students
to apply and synthesize all aspects of pointework studies including
technique, spatial awareness, dynamics and group forms by preparing
and presenting a public performance. It must be taken concurrently with
DANC 313 Ballet V or 343 Advanced Majors Ballet. May be taken 8 times
for credit.
Outcomes:
Students gain a deeper understanding of pointe technique, as well
as demonstrate speciﬁc advanced skills required of the dance form;
Students apply and synthesize material in a public performance
DANC 323   Rehearsal and Performance   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  Permission of the department   
Dancing, choreographing, or stage managing, in a campus production.
Completion of a journal or paper is required. May be repeated up to 12
times.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will gain performance experience, assess personal artistic
growth, and reflect on application of performance theory and technique
into production practice
DANC 324   Modern III: Theory and Techniques   (1 Credit Hour)   
This studio course develops core strength, coordination and musical,
spatial and performance skills through the study the technique and
theory developed by Martha Graham as well as contemporary dance
practices.
Outcomes:
Dancers will improve coordination, phrasing, physical power, shift of
weight, anatomical awareness, performance, projection, flexibility and
placement

--- Page 386 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 417
DANC 331   Jazz Dance III: Intermediate Jazz Dance Theories and
Techniques   (2 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Permission of the Instructor   
This course develops students' ability to execute Jazz dance technique at
an intermediate level. Students improve their dance technique, dynamic,
spatial and performance skills. Students apply and synthesize all aspects
of jazz dance technique in public performance. This course may be taken
six times for credit.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students improve core strength, coordination, flexibility and correct
posture at the intermediate level, in increasingly complex combinations
applying and synthesizing all concepts and technique in public
performance
DANC 341   Ballet IV: Anatomical Foundations and Cultural Context   (1
Credit Hour)   
This applied studio technique course emphasizes contemporary scientiﬁc
anatomical research and cultural context in the study of ballet. Course
skills and concepts are applied and synthesized through presentation of a
public performance.
Outcomes:
Students will improve strength, alignment, and ensemble skills, develop
knowledge and apply anatomical principles, connect the study of ballet to
cultural and artistic context
DANC 343   Ballet V: Advancing Ballet: Contemporary Methodologies in
Applied Ballet   (1 Credit Hour)   
This applied studio technique course emphasizes contemporary best
practices in the study of Ballet in performance and theory in order to
advance artistic and technical proﬁciency. Course skills and concepts are
applied and synthesized through presentation of a public performance.
Outcomes:
Students will improve strength, alignment, and ensemble skills, develop
knowledge of universal dance principles and advance their proﬁciency in
contemporary ballet practice; Course skills and concepts are applied and
synthesized through presentation of a public performance
DANC 360   Dance Pedagogy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Dance major or dance minor   
The study child development, sequential dance pedagogy, biomechanics,
nutrition and classroom management techniques as it relates to the
teaching of dance. Coursework includes lecture, readings, model
teaching, and research. Students observe master teachers instructing
children of all ages and create sequential lesson plans consisting of all
elements of dance pedagogy.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate a working knowledge of child development
in relationship to age-appropriate dance skills as well as behavioral
expectations; They will develop strategies that address the sequences
of skill acquisition as well as concrete strategies for classroom
managementDANC 370   Dance Composition   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Must be a Dance Major or Dance Minor to enroll; Placement
in Level III or higher dance technique courses; Permission of the
department required   
This course takes students from an introduction to dance composition
theory and techniques through the process of creating a group work for
the stage. Course work includes lecture, discussion, selected readings,
viewing of masterworks of dance composition, creation of several dance
studies on various themes and culminates in the creation of a work for
performance in the Student Choreographic Showcase.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Through the development of short dance students learn the principles of
dance composition and then apply them to their own creation performed
for a public audience
DANC 380   Senior Showcase Capstone   (1 Credit Hour)   
Restricted to Senior Dance Majors. This course serves as the capstone
of the Dance major and creates a platform for dancers to apply technical
skills, theory and practice from many required courses for the Bachelor
of Arts including DANC 341/DANC 343 Majors Ballet, DANC 321 Majors
Modern, DANC 323 Rehearsal and Performance and DANC 370 Dance
Composition.
Outcomes:
Dance majors will apply and synthesize all applied technique courses
taken for their dance majors as well as integrate their knowledge of the
choreographic and performance process
DANC 394   Internship in Dance   (1-12 Credit Hours)   
Dance students complete a semester long internship providing an
opportunity to use their technical, research or organizations skills in
a professional setting. Students must complete and reflect upon 50
hours of internship experience per credit hour that is pre-approved by
the Department of Fine and Performing Arts. Department permission is
required.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students gain professional experience working at a dance organization
while reflecting on their work experience and applying theories and
techniques acquired from their ﬁrst dance courses
DANC 395   Independent Study   (1-12 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Written permission of chairperson   
Independent study projects may be of various kinds and in any
recognized area of the dance. Such projects should be done under the
close supervision of a dance faculty member.
Outcomes:
To be determined by the student in consultation with the chairperson and
dance faculty supervisor
DANC 397   Fieldwork in Chicago - Dance   (1-12 Credit Hours)   
Variable credit (1-6 hours) given for performances or projects undertaken
with professional dance organizations outside the university. Students
keep a journal and write evaluative papers. Permission of the Department
of Fine and Performing Arts Required. Repeatable for up to 6 credit hours,
however no more than 6 credit hours of Internship or Fieldwork can be
applied to the major.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Speciﬁc outcomes and credit hours assigned to be determined by
the student in consultation with the Director of Dance and the project
supervisor

--- Page 387 ---
418  Fine and Performing Arts
DANC 398   Research in Dance   (1-12 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  DANC 323   
Faculty serve as mentors for dance students pursuing research
opportunities. Platforms cross various domains in cognitive,
psychomotor, and artistic development. Students and faculty work
together to generate qualitative and quantitative data documented
in multiple modalities including: dancemaking, regression analyses,
interviews, correlational and case studies. This course satisﬁes the
Engaged Learning-Undergraduate Research requirement.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will learn discipline-speciﬁc language skills, research ethics and
methodologies; Students will gain valuable skills disseminating research
through performances, scholarly articles, conference presentations and
research symposia
Fine Arts (FNAR)
FNAR 110   Foundations of Visual Art   (3 Credit Hours)   
Explores some of the fundamental principles, concepts, and historical
and contemporary contexts that constitute a contemporary art practice.
Provides experience across a range of modes of art making while
emphasizing the basic concepts that underlie visual expression. Studio
activity is augmented with research, discussion, and critique.
Outcomes:
Explore and express visual concepts; Develop creative competencies;
Utilize design elements to communicate themes and ideas; Expand
cognitive capacities; Comprehend historical and contemporary
approaches to visual art
FNAR 112   Two-Dimensional Design   (3 Credit Hours)   
An examination of the basic elements and organizational systems of
visual expression through the application of design principles and theory.
Course equivalencies:  FNAR112/ACFNA112   
Outcomes:
Students will be able manipulate various forms of media to produce
desired spatial effects, and understand how to control by- using such
design methods as scale, perspective, and composition - the viewer's
understanding of and reaction to visual information on a two-dimensional
surface
FNAR 113   Drawing I   (3 Credit Hours)   
An introduction to the basic elements of drawing including: line, value,
texture, volume, shape, proportion, perspective and visual composition.
A variety of drawing materials will be explored with an emphasis on
observation problems designed to build technical, perceptual, and
personal expressive interpretation of form through the drawing idiom.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of basic drawing
principles and vocabulary, through practice and articulation of both
formal and artistic ideas
FNAR 114   Painting I   (3 Credit Hours)   
An introduction to the basic elements of painting including: the
application of drawing, design, and color principles. A variety of materials
will be explored with an emphasis on oil painting. Observational problems
will be introduced to build technical, perceptual, and personal expressive
interpretation of form through the painting idiom.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of basic painting
principles and vocabulary, through practice and articulation of both
formal and artistic ideasFNAR 115   Foundations of Photography   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces photography as a form of visual art. Students
learn the technical concepts in order to develop their ability to express
ideas through photography. The course also emphasizes strengthening
visual literacy through lectures, discussions, and critiques. Requirements:
A fully adjustable digital camera (DSLR) and an external hard drive are
required.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
Course equivalencies:  FNAR115/ICVM115/IFMS115   
Outcomes:
Students will learn how to formulate and communicate ideas through
photography; The course focuses on building the students' visual literacy
and understanding of photography as a form of visual art
FNAR 116   Color Slide Photography   (3 Credit Hours)   
A non-darkroom, introductory course to the equipment, techniques and
aesthetics of creative photography that emphasizes camera controls,
principles of composition, concepts of color theory, the unique potential
of the projected image, and personal expression. An adjustable 35mm
camera is required.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding and application
of exposure, depth of ﬁeld, rendering motion, full frame composition,
sequential imagery, balance of ﬁlm and light source, and the functions of
color, all of which support the practice of creative photography
FNAR 118   Printmaking I   (3 Credit Hours)   
An exploration of the production of ﬁne art multiples as they are created
utilizing zinc and copper plates. Techniques of etching and engraving
aquatint and color printing as well as innovative processes are taught.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of the techniques needed to
produce images on metal plates and alternative surface; the intrinsic
qualities particular to expression in print media, recognize ﬁne prints,
speciﬁc techniques, and archival quality in historical examples, use
intaglio presses as a means of production and form evaluative judgments
about printed imagery
FNAR 119   Watercolor Techniques   (3 Credit Hours)   
An introduction to the basic elements of watercolor painting including:
the application of drawing, design, and color principles. A variety of
techniques and materials will be explored including, watercolor paints
and pencils, and brush and masking techniques. Observational problems
will be introduced to build technical, perceptual, and personal expressive
interpretation of form through the watercolor painting idiom.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of basic painting
principles and vocabulary, through practice and articulation of both
formal and artistic ideas
FNAR 120   Ceramics: Handbuilding   (3 Credit Hours)   
An exploration of various handbuilding techniques, surface design
techniques, and ﬁring ranges available to the contemporary ceramist.
Students are encouraged to pursue individual expression in the context of
a broad range of methods and creative concepts.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate the basics of successful
construction and glaze techniques; demonstrate creative strategies and
critical evaluation of the creative process; demonstrate an understanding
of both historical and contemporary approaches to the medium and the
role of the Ceramic artist in cultures past and present

--- Page 388 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 419
FNAR 121   Ceramics: Wheelthrowing   (3 Credit Hours)   
An introduction to the potters' wheel. Students learn basic throwing skills,
explore utilitarian design concepts, and learn to balance spontaneous
and practiced approaches to process. Emphasis is on the successful
integration of craft and personal expression.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Course equivalencies:  FNAR220/FNAR121   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate basic wheelthrowing and glaze
techniques; demonstrate creative strategies and critical evaluation of
the creative process; demonstrate an understanding of both historical
and contemporary approaches to the medium and the role of the Ceramic
artist in cultures past and present
FNAR 123   Metalwork and Jewelry I   (3 Credit Hours)   
The methods and processes of construction using nonferrous metals
applied to problems in design and function. Projects are designed to
familiarize the student with processes in metalwork and the proper use of
hand tools.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the fundamental
characteristics of metal; the ability to cut, shape and manipulate metals;
to express visual ideas in low and high relief; and to form judgments
about design on other than flat surfaces
FNAR 124   Sculpture Foundations   (3 Credit Hours)   
An introduction to three dimensional concepts and materials, and
associated techniques, in the process of articulating a personal artistic
statement. Students will be guided in the fabrication of various 3-D
constructions employing a wide range of building materials such as
plaster, wood, clay, foam board, paper, and metals.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to translate two-dimensional sketches and drawings
into expressive three dimensional forms; demonstrate basic sculpting
techniques and creative strategies; provide critical evaluation of the
creative process; and produce objects that are viewable in the round,
structurally stable with masses and appendages proportionate to one
another
FNAR 126   Metal Sculpture and Welding   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces students to the manipulation of iron, steel and
steel alloys. Students learn how to choose gauges of steel, cut with oxy-
acetylene torch and metal cutting wheels and blades and attach steel by
traditional welding techniques.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to operate a torch safely; cut and weld cleanly, ﬁle
grind and polish, forge, hammer and shape steel sheeting; demonstrate
the ability to convert two-dimensional ideas into cogent three-
dimensional forms; demonstrate understanding and control over
hazardous technical processes and demonstrate understanding of the
evaluative criteria of metal work
FNAR 129   Printmaking-Monotypes   (3 Credit Hours)   
An introduction into the various methods of producing one of a kind
highly individual prints from a vast array of printing surfaces. A variety
of materials will be explored through assignments which encourage an
understanding of technique, perceptual thinking and expression of form.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate a functional knowledge of a wide
variety of printing media, be able to utilize the basic tools particular to
each medium and produce a consistent series of formal images through
recognition of their expressive propertiesFNAR 132   Visual Communication I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course initiates a professional sequence whereby the student
receives an introduction to composition, typography, and historical
and contemporary concepts in visual communication. It introduces
students to page layout software (Adobe InDesign), its relationship to
other software packages, and the technical aspects of digital typography.
Outcomes:
Students gain an understanding of fundamental principles of visual
communication emphasizing typography, the development technical
skills in materials and techniques, and the ability to express formal and
creative ideas
FNAR 152   Drawing China   (3 Credit Hours)   
This is an introductory drawing course. There are no pre-requisites nor
prior experience need to succeed in this course. Beijing is our  laboratory
and the topic of all class drawings.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies   
Course equivalencies:  FNAR152/ASIA152   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to draw trees, buildings, automobiles, vegetables,
human beings in real life situations and in perspective
FNAR 160   The Crafts of China   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the artisan crafts of China historically and
technically. The course explores how and why the crafts appeared,
their historical trajectory and demonstrates how the crafts improved
technically. Ceramics, Bronze Castings and Wood works will serve as
prototypes. Students will undertake independent researches.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies   
Course equivalencies:  FNAR160/ASIA160   
Outcomes:
Students will identify how the crafts of woodwork, bronze casting and
ceramics evolved and how they are currently practiced in China; Students
will articulate an understanding of the function of craft in Chinese culture
as well compare and contrast it to the function craft in their own culture
FNAR 170   Three-Dimensional Design   (3 Credit Hours)   
An examination of the basic elements and organizational systems of
spatial expression through the application of design principles and
theory.
Course equivalencies:  FNAR212/FNAR170   
Outcomes:
Students will be able work with a variety of materials to produce three-
dimensional objects in space, and understand how to control the
viewer's reaction to those objects through the manipulation of solidity,
transparency, movement and time
FNAR 190   Color Theory   (3 Credit Hours)   
An examination of the nature of subtractive and additive color in its
physiological, psychological, aesthetic, cultural, and symbolic dimensions
through the application of past and current theory. Emphasis is placed on
color mixing, color relationships, and understanding color terminology.
Students develop proﬁciency using color in their work as well as gaining a
fundamental understanding of the basic visual, aesthetic, and t heoretical
considerations of color use in art & design.
FNAR 195   Topics in Fine Arts Pre-Collegiate   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course consists of special topics in speciﬁc Fine Arts areas, and is
offered for the Pre-Collegiate student.
Outcomes:
While the speciﬁc area of study varies, the expectation is that the student
will become familiar with the methods, materials and aesthetic properties
of that artistic approach, as well as the technical means to control the
expression

--- Page 389 ---
420  Fine and Performing Arts
FNAR 199   Art and Visual Culture   (3 Credit Hours)   
An introduction to the principles of art and their application to broader
visual culture, this course explores the complex nature of art through
an examination of its visual elements, techniques, functions, critical
methodologies, and related social issues. The course takes advantage of
Chicago's artistic resources.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
Course equivalencies:  FNAR199/ICVM199/IFMS199/ACFNA1   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of the elements of visual language;
means of visual expression in diverse cultures and eras; media and
techniques of art; artistic terminology; and critical approaches to the
study of visual culture and related social issues; Students will acquire the
skills to interpret art and visual culture in oral and written form
FNAR 200   Global Art History: Prehistoric to 600 CE   (3 Credit Hours)   
A comprehensive survey that introduces students to the art, architecture,
and material practices of global cultures from pre-history to the 7th
Century CE. This course will study the internal and cross-cultural
relationships between various art forms and the social, geo-political,
spiritual, economic, and political contexts in which selected a rtifacts and
monuments were made.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies, Italian
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  FNAR200/FNAR200R   
Outcomes:
Students will acquire skills to critically analyze formal expressions,
materials, functions, meanings, and makers of art and material culture in
relation to the historical contexts of ancient global societies
FNAR 200R   Art History: Pre-History to Renaissance in Rome   (3 Credit
Hours)   
A general survey which explores the development of art in Western
culture from pre-history through the sources of the Renaissance in the
fourteenth century with a focus on Rome and Italy.
Course equivalencies:  FNAR200/FNAR200R   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge of the ideas, formal
expressions, themes, techniques, and functions of art in relation to their
cultural, social, and historical contexts
FNAR 201   Global Art History: 600-1800CE   (3 Credit Hours)   
A general survey which explores the development of global art from 540
through 1800.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Italian Studies   
Course equivalencies:  ACFNA 105 / FNAR 201   
Outcomes:
Students will acquire skills to critically analyze formal expressions,
materials, functions, meanings, and makers of art and material culture in
relation to the historical contexts of early modern global societiesFNAR 202   Global Art History: Modern Art   (3 Credit Hours)   
A comprehensive survey of major artistic movements from a global
perspective, engaging key concepts, issues, and modes of production in
the modern world. It examines evolving ideas about the forms, content,
techniques, and functions of art from the late 18th century to today
considered within its socio-political and historical context.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Film & Digital Media Studies,
Global Studies, International Film & Media Studies   
Course equivalencies:  FNAR202/ICVM202/IFMS202   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of the key ideas, formal
expressions, themes, techniques, and functions of modern art in relation
to social-historical contexts and modern culture from a global perspective
FNAR 203   Chicago: Face of a City   (3 Credit Hours)   
An examination of the history of the Chicago School of Architecture along
with public sculpture and mural painting in Chicago, this course explores
the changing trends of American public art, artists' response to a public
audience, and issues of social responsibility. Participation in class ﬁeld
trips is required.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Urban Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to identify the major social concerns of the city as
well as the means by which visual arts can be integrated into its daily
life; They will be able to recognize the major artists and recent artistic
developments in their urban context
FNAR 207   Women, Art, and Society   (3 Credit Hours)   
An examination of women artists in Western culture and the societies
in which they worked from the medieval period to the present. Women's
artistic production, the styles and subject matter they embraced, and
their relation to artistic trends of their eras are explored within the context
of social attitudes about gender.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-FNAR207/WOST207/WSGS207   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge of women's contribution
to the visual arts, the factors that impacted their participation in the art
world, the underlying ways that gender constructions impact society, and
feminist theory and methodologies related to art
FNAR 213   Drawing II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FNAR 113   
An intermediate level drawing course designed to extend the
understanding of the visual elements of drawing introduced in FNAR 113.
This course includes an emphasis on color, and an exploration of a
broader range of drawing media. Observational and conceptual problems
are introduced.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of more advanced
drawing principles through expanded practice and articulation of both
formal and artistic ideas

--- Page 390 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 421
FNAR 214   Painting II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FNAR 114   
An intermediate level painting course designed to extend the
understanding of the application of drawing, design, and color principles
introduced in FNAR 114. This course will explore both oil and acrylic
painting and a variety of substrates. Emphasis on the human ﬁgure and
individualized conceptual problems will be introduced to build technical,
perceptual, and personal expressive interpretation of form through the
painting idiom.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of more advanced
painting principles through expanded practice and articulation of both
formal and artistic ideas
FNAR 216   Lighting Techniques for Photography and Video Art   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FNAR 115 or instructor permission   
This course examines techniques with both available and artiﬁcial
lights for works with photography and video. The students learn how
the use and control of lighting are essential in working with lens-based
media, whether it¿s on-location or in a studio environment. The concepts
covered in the class will be used to produce photographic and video
works.
Outcomes:
Students learn the equipment and techniques for effectively using
available and artiﬁcial lights
FNAR 218   Printmaking II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FNAR 118   
This course explores specialized work in intaglio, monotypes, and
mixed media. Emphasis is placed on the development and perfecting of
technique.
Outcomes:
Students demonstrate understanding of mixed-media printing; knowledge
of a wide range of printmaking media; apply drawing concepts to the
materials of printmaking; produce a consistent body of work in a complex
medium; recognize historical prototypes and articulate the differences
to others; and form judgments needed to adapt image making in a highly
technical area of expression
FNAR 219   Photography: Digital Imaging   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FNAR 115 - Foundations of Photography; A fully adjustable
digital camera (DSLR) and an external hard drive are required   
The course focuses on advanced editing techniques in Photoshop in
regards to color correction, color management, image compositing, and
image manipulation. Students will also learn the technical and aesthetic
concepts that are crucial components of the digital workflow to further
develop their visual languages as photographic artists.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-FNAR219/IFMS220   
Outcomes:
Students learn more complex editing in Photoshop, how to operate a
professional inkjet printer and the importance of paper selection; The
course examines possibilities with digital technologyFNAR 221   Ceramic Science   (3 Credit Hours)   
An examination of practical and experimental approaches to applied
chemistry as it relates to the ceramic arts. Students will learn the
theory behind clay and glaze formulation, test a wide array of materials
interactions; and learn practical skills in developing vitreous bodies, glass
forming substances, and metallic oxide pigments.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge of inorganic compounds
and their useful combinations in formulating ceramic bodies, gl azes, and
pigments; demonstrate knowledge of the effects of ﬁring temperature
and atmosphere on ceramic formulations; demonstrate knowledge of
safe lab practices in the ceramics studio
FNAR 222   Sculpture/Ceramics: Intermediate Ceramics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FNAR 124 and (FNAR 120 or FNAR 121); or instructor
permission   
This intermediate course expands the students' knowledge of materials,
techniques, and concepts relative to the production of three-dimensional
artwork. Students explore the dynamic interrelationship between art,
craft, and design, with particular emphasis on the role and function of
three-dimensional artworks historically and in contemporary practice.
The conceptual possibilities for reproduction and multiplication in
sculpture and ceramics is also highlighted. Visual and written research
is a component of the course, as are personal reflection and group
discussion. The course provides context for the key concepts explored.
Course equivalencies:  FNAR320/FNAR222   
Outcomes:
Students develop technical, aesthetic, and conceptual strategies in
the creation of three-dimensional artwork, and increased awareness of
cultural / historical perspectives of the medium
FNAR 223   Metalwork and Jewelry II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FNAR 123   
Advanced work in metalwork and jewelry including problems in the
techniques of lost wax casting and enameling
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate the ability to control materials with
the addition of stones, found objects and other materials; design and cast
works in the round; design a work and see it through from production to
completion, and demonstrate knowledge of a wide range of metalwork
techniques and their decorative and design potential
FNAR 232   Visual Communication II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FNAR 132 Visual Communication I   
A continued study of the visual and conceptual principles introduced in
FNAR 132 with an emphasis on advanced typographic principles and an
introduction to the history of graphic design.
Outcomes:
Students gain knowledge of graphic design history and advance in
their understanding of typography and imagery in the problem-solving
processes in graphic design, including the further development of
conceptual skills
FNAR 233   Digital Media Design   (3 Credit Hours)   
An exploration of image creation and design using Adobe Photoshop
and Adobe Illustrator. This industry standard software is introduced as a
vehicle for basic design concepts and as a tool for creative expression.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
Outcomes:
Students gain an understanding of software skills and design basics;
They develop the ability and techniques to manipulate software in the
production of compositions effectively combining image and typography

--- Page 391 ---
422  Fine and Performing Arts
FNAR 234   Digital Media: Vector   (3 Credit Hours)   
An exploration of vector illustration using Adobe Illustrator. This industry
standard software is introduced as a vehicle for basic design concepts
and as a tool for creative expression.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
Outcomes:
Students gain an understanding of software skills and design basics;
They develop the ability and techniques to manipulate software in the
production of artistic compositions effectively combining image and
typography
FNAR 235   Figure Studio   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FNAR 113 or FNAR 114 or permission of the instructor   
An advanced level studio course designed to introduce the human form
with an emphasis on the application of drawing and wet media. S keletal
anatomy and concepts of visualization and proportion will be explored.
Observational and conceptual problems will be introduced.. The course
may be taken twice for credit.
Course equivalencies:  X-FNAR235/THTR235   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the human
form and anatomy through expanded practice and articulation of both
formal and artistic ideas
FNAR 251   African-American Art   (3 Credit Hours)   
An introduction to the achievements of Americans of African descent
beginning with African roots through the Harlem Renaissance to the
contemporary work of such internationally recognized artists as Richard
Hunt and Martin Puryear. Content may vary according to the particular
focus of the instructor.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora   
Course equivalencies:  X-FNAR251/BWS 251   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge of the richness of
African-American visual arts as they developed within and outside the
purview of traditional art venues
FNAR 260   The Art of Bookbinding   (3 Credit Hours)   
An introduction to the basic methods of bookbinding exploring traditional
and one-of-a-kind artists books. Sewn, glued and free form structures will
form the basis for the study of image and text within the framework of a
personal approach to alternative surfaces.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to construct and manipulate a wide variety of media
using the grammar and language of the book form; Through selected
projects students will utilize compositional elements and descriptive to
communicate ideas and concepts in book form
FNAR 303   Visual Arts Pedagogy   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores the ideas of teaching and learning through the
visual arts and arts integration as they pertain to teaching artists.
Coursework includes lecture and discussion, readings, model teaching,
and teaching artist visits. Students will learn art pedagogy, classroom
management techniques, and to develop their ideas into a curricular
format.
Outcomes:
Students will recognize perspectives and theories around learning
through the visual arts, identify appropriate teaching content and
techniques, and design appropriate visual arts lessons, aligning content
and standardsFNAR 304   Paris in the Nineteenth Century   (3 Credit Hours)   
An examination of Nineteenth Century art in Paris as shaped by
contemporary changes in the physical, social and economic life of the
city.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge of nineteenth ce ntury art
and artists in the context of the emergence of a modern, industrial urban
complex
FNAR 305   American Art to 1945   (3 Credit Hours)   
An examination of American painting, sculpture, and architecture from
the colonial period to the period immediately following World War II.
Emphasis is placed on the development of speciﬁcally American art
forms as they evolved from their dependency upon European sources.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to recognize and demonstrate knowledge of major
artists and artistic movements from the earliest days of the Republic
when Europe served as a source of training and inspiration to the
beginnings of modern times when global developments shifted the focus
of artistic inspiration to New York
FNAR 306   Contemporary Art 1945-Present   (3 Credit Hours)   
An examination of recent developments in American and European art
beginning with the physical shift of the center of artistic authority from
Paris to New York during and immediately after World War II.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to recognize and demonstrate knowledge of major
artists and artistic movements from the mid-twentieth century to the
present day; They will also understand the major theoretical issues of the
period
FNAR 311   Advanced Studio   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FNAR 213 or FNAR 214 or equivalent   
The most advanced level studio course in painting and drawing and is
designed to aid the student in developing a body of creative work from
conception to production to presentation. This course is conducted as
an individual studio practicum between the instructor and student. The
course may be taken twice for credit.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate a strong understanding of their own creative
process through the development of a cohesive body of work
FNAR 312   Design III   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FNAR 170   
An application of two- and three-dimensional principles and
methodologies to advanced studio projects in ﬁne and applied areas.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to develop a series of multi-dimensional structures
that utilize planar and spatial techniques to communicate a body of
information and sensory experiences to others
FNAR 314   Painting III   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FNAR 114 and 214   
An advanced level painting course designed to extend the understanding
of the application of drawing, design, and color principles int roduced in
FNAR 114 and expanded in FNAR 214. This course will explore a range of
painting materials and substrates. Emphasis is placed on critique and the
development of conceptual problems to build technical, perceptual, and
personal expressive interpretation.
Outcomes:
Students will develop a body of work through expanded practice and
articulation of both formal and artistic ideas

--- Page 392 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 423
FNAR 315   Photography: Films and Cameras   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FNAR 219 or instructor permission   
This course will explore processes and materials related to ﬁlm-based
photography. The primary focus of this course will be shooting ﬁlms with
various types of ﬁlm cameras. Students will also explore integrating a
digital workflow to edit and print images captured on ﬁlm.
Outcomes:
Students will learn how to use ﬁlm cameras, scan ﬁlm, and incorporate
a digital workflow with the editing and printing of ﬁlm to produce
photographic projects
FNAR 318   Printmaking III   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FNAR 218   
A continued exploration of Printmaking I, II which enables the student to
enhance technical and conceptual skills in printmaking mediums.
Outcomes:
Through selected projects students will demonstrate knowledge of
contemporary trends in printmaking including new digital media and
photomechanical processes; They will acquire analysis skills and
functional critical knowledge of the grammar and language of prints
FNAR 320   Video Art   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FNAR 216 or instructor permission   
This is a course on Video Art and expanded lens-based media that
introduces students to time-based art and the language and history of
moving images. Students will explore the ways in which artists use video
in their artworks and the techniques foundational to the craft of creating
moving images.
Course equivalencies:  FNAR320/FNAR222   
Outcomes:
Students will learn technical skills, such as cinematography, video editing,
and audio recording; Students will develop their literacy of video media by
exploring artworks made by pioneering artists
FNAR 322   Sculpture & Ceramics: Advanced Studio   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FNAR 222 or permission of instructor   
An advanced studio course in which students focus on developing an
independent, compelling three-dimensional ﬁne arts practice through a
more focused approach to the application and synthesis of knowledge
and experiences in comparison to Intermediate Studio courses. Visual
and written research and ﬁeld trips are components of the course, as are
personal reflection and group discussion. Technical experiments and key
concepts are geared speciﬁcally to the students interests and artistic
goals.
Course equivalencies:  FNAR321/FNAR322   
Outcomes:
Select and apply appropriate materials and methods to resolve complex
visual and conceptual problems and meaningfully discuss key issues;
Create a portfolio of work built on independent investigation
FNAR 332   Visual Communication III   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FNAR 232 Visual Communication II   
This course includes the continued study of contemporary graphic
design practice and further work in design with emphasis on analytical
and creative approaches to problem solving across many types of
media. Students are exposed to current best practices for effective self-
promotion.
Outcomes:
Students gain an understanding of how contemporary design is used
to communicate; They begin to develop a sophisticated body of work,
advancing in their ability to critically evaluate visual communicationFNAR 333   Explorations in Typography   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FNAR 232   
Students explore both practical and experimental solutions utilizing
typography as a means of communication and language visualization;
investigating multifaceted modes of expression with emphasis placed
on the study and creation of meaning relative to audience, culture, and
history.
Outcomes:
Students develop a heightened awareness of the nuanced role that
typography plays as a delivery mechanism for narrative structures,
information, language visualization, and alternate forms of exp ression
FNAR 334   Motion Design   (3 Credit Hours)   
An exploration of time-based motion graphics. Industry standard
software is utilized as a vehicle for learning graphic animation concepts
and as a tool for creative expression.
Outcomes:
Students gain an understanding of software skills and design basics;
They develop the ability and techniques to manipulate software in
the production of motion graphics effectively combining image and
typography
FNAR 338   Medieval Art   (3 Credit Hours)   
An examination of the art and architecture of the Christian world from
250 to 1453 CE, including the Early Christian, Byzantine, Carolingian,
Romanesque, and Gothic periods as well as the influence of Islamic
culture.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, Medieval Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-FNAR338/MSTU380/ROST338   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of forms, ideas, themes,
techniques, and functions of medieval art and their relation to relevant
cultural, social, and historical contexts; They will acquire the skills to
critically analyze these relationships and to understand the scholarship
and issues related to medieval studies
FNAR 341   Renaissance Art - Painting   (3 Credit Hours)   
An examination of pictorial arts of the Renaissance in Northern and
Southern Europe within the context of the material culture and society of
the ﬁfteenth and sixteenth centuries. Content may vary according to the
particular focus of the instructor.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-FNAR341/ROST341   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of techniques, formats, themes,
forms, functions, and patronage of European painting and its relation to
society and culture and will acquire the skills to critically analyze these
relationships
FNAR 342   Art in Rome   (3 Credit Hours)   
A survey of Rome's artistic heritage, including architecture, mosaic,
painting, and sculpture from antiquity to the present day studied within
the context of Rome's changing roles in Western European history.
Classes are taught on site.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies, Italian
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-FNAR342/ROST342   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of Rome's cultural role in history
and of its artistic traditions and how they relate to their historical context

--- Page 393 ---
424  Fine and Performing Arts
FNAR 343   Baroque Art   (3 Credit Hours)   
An examination of art and architecture in Europe during the seventeenth
and eighteenth centuries with special concentration on the preeminence
of Rome. (Rome Center students are expected to visit and study certain
works of art in their original location).
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies, Italian
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-FNAR343/ROST343   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of forms, ideas, themes,
techniques, and functions of seventeenth and eighteenth-century
Western European art and their relation to relevant cultural, social
and historical contexts; They acquire skills to critically analyze these
relationships and to understand the scholarship and issues related to
Baroque studies
FNAR 344   Early Italian Renaissance Art   (3 Credit Hours)   
An examination of Italian art and architecture from the late thirteenth
to the late ﬁfteenth centuries with special emphasis on Florence, Siena,
and centers in northern Italy such as Padua and Mantua. (Rome Center
students visit and study certain works of art in their original location).
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies, Italian
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-FNAR344/ROST344   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of forms, ideas, themes,
techniques, and functions of early Italian Renaissance art and their
relation to relevant cultural, social, and historical contexts; They acquire
skills to critically analyze these relationships and to understand the
scholarship and issues related to Italian Renaissance art
FNAR 345   Italian High Renaissance and Mannerist Art   (3 Credit Hours)   
An examination of Italian painting, sculpture, and architecture from the
late ﬁfteenth through the sixteenth centuries, focusing on the art of
Florence, Rome, and Venice and including consideration of such artists
as Leonardo da Vinci, Michelangelo, Raphael, and Titian. (Rome Center
students visit and study works of art in their original location).
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies, Italian
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-FNAR345/ROST345   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of forms, ideas, themes,
techniques, and functions of Italian High Renaissance and Mannerist
art and their relation to relevant cultural, social, and historical contexts;
Students acquire skills to critically analyze these relationships and
to understand the scholarship and issues related to Italian High
Renaissance and Mannerist art
FNAR 349   Art and the Catholic Tradition   (3 Credit Hours)   
An examination of the integral role that the visual arts and architecture
have played in the Catholic faith since its early centuries.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the role of Catholic art and architecture within
its theological, social, and historical contexts through an examination of
both visual and related textual sourcesFNAR 351   Latin American Art I: Ancient to 19th Century   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course examines creative production in Latin America from its
Ancient empires to colonization, and independence in the 19th century.
Exploring archaic periods to imperial integration, we consider the legacy
of indigenous artistic production and mestizaje in the visual culture in the
region from the 16th through 19th century.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Latin American Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH344/FNAR351/INTS385/LASP   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate the ability to distinguish sculptural, pictorial,
and architectural styles of diverse cultures within the geographical and
temporal boundaries deﬁned, and historical processes that shaped its
production
FNAR 352   Islam and Visual Culture   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the visual forms of Islamic culture from the
7th century to the present. Students will be introduced to the major
monuments, artistic techniques, and regional styles, investigating visual
works within their historical context and in relation to intercultural
engagement.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Arabic Language and Culture, Global Studies,
Islamic World Studies, Arabic Language and Culture, Global Studies,
Islamic World Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-FNAR352/LASP358   
Outcomes:
Through study of major monuments, artistic techniques, regional style,
and intercultural engagement, students will recognize Islam and visual
culture as a global phenomenon entailing much more than religious
artifacts
FNAR 353   Latin American Art II: Modern to Contemporary   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course provides an expanded understanding of modernity and its
artistic partner, modernism, as well as the political, social and cultural
landscapes that informed and formed the art and architecture of Latin
America and its diasporic intersections, from the early twentieth century
to the present day.
Course equivalencies:  X-FNAR353/LASP359   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate the ability to distinguish pictorial, sculptural,
performative and architectural styles of diverse artists and identities
associated with Latin America, and the historical processes that shaped
its production
FNAR 355   Art of Africa   (3 Credit Hours)   
An examination of the traditional arts of West Africa and the Paciﬁc and
their role in the control and organization of tribal societies before the
introduction of European influences.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Global
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  ANTH345/BWS/INTS/FNAR355   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of the unique role of the
visual arts and music in the transmission of traditional mores; They will
demonstrate understanding of the social and artistic distinctions found
in a comparison of highly centralized societies with loosely deﬁned tribal
organization and how this is reflected in different cultural standards

--- Page 394 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 425
FNAR 356   India, Women and Visual Culture   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines images of women and the work of women artists
in India, engaging with broader topics in feminist and postcolonial theory,
including indigenous responses to colonialism, contemporary critiques
of the female form in Indian art, and the agency of women artists in the
twentieth and twenty-ﬁrst centuries.
Course equivalencies:  X-FNAR356/ASIA356/INTS374   
Outcomes:
Student will become familiar with the work of Indian women artists and
how images of Indian women have been understood and interpreted
throughout the 20th and 21st centuries
FNAR 357   South Asian Visual Culture   (3 Credit Hours)   
An examination of the cultural background and major art forms of South
Asia from the Indus River Valley settlements to the Present. As well as
sculpture, architecture and painting, popular visual art forms will be
examined.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-FNAR357/ASIA357/INTS396   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of the religious, cultural and
political forces shaping South Asian art; They will be able to distinguish
the regional styles and identify the major monuments of South Asia;
Students will understand the role of the visual arts in South Asian society
FNAR 358   Chinese Art and Culture   (3 Credit Hours)   
An examination of the cultural background and major visual art forms of
China from prehistoric to early modern times.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-FNAR358/ASIA358/INTS321   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of the philosophical and religious
sources of the major traditional art forms of China; They will recognize
the degree to which Confucian morality controlled the social and
intellectual principles by which society was governed and the arts
evaluated until the advent of Communism
FNAR 359   Japanese Art and Culture   (3 Credit Hours)   
An examination of the cultural background and major art forms of Japan
from earliest times until the twentieth century.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies, Japanese Language
and Culture   
Course equivalencies:  X-FNAR359/ASIA359/INTS329   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of the philosophical and religious
sources of the major art forms of Japan; They will recognize the dual
formative influences of indigenous traditions and those of foreign origin
in what becomes a uniquely Japanese adaptation and resolution of ideas
expressed effectively either verbally or visuallyFNAR 360   Picturing Women in Renaissance and Baroque Art   (3 Credit
Hours)   
An examination of issues related to women, art, and society in early
modern Europe (15th-17th centuries) through a study of women as
subject matter, viewers, producers, and patrons of art. A multi-disciplinary
approach is employed to explore how gender as a social, political, and
psychological category is reflected in and reinforced by visual culture.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-FNAR360/WOST360/WSGS360   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of the ways gender is constructed
in society, the origins and effects of gender attitudes, the interrelation
between gender and visual culture, and the ways women have claimed
agency; Students will critically analyze visual culture and gender
attitudes and demonstrate knowledge of feminist theory and scholarly
methods
FNAR 364   History of Graphic Design   (3 Credit Hours)   
A survey of the evolution of graphic communication from prehistory
through postmodern design and the digital revolution.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of the ideas, formal expressions,
themes, techniques, and functions of graphic communication in relation
to its social-historical context
FNAR 365   History of Photography   (3 Credit Hours)   
A chronological and thematic survey of the history of photography,
especially in Europe and America. Fine art and utilitarian applications of
the medium are considered by examining photographers who represent
the origin and development of major pictorial forms; the interaction
between technology and imagery; and the relationships between
photography and historical, social and cultural events.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-FNAR365/ICVM365/IFMS365   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the most
important pictorial forms, themes, practitioners, processes and context
of photography as a ﬁne and applied art from the beginning of the
nineteenth century to the present
FNAR 367   History of Architecture   (3 Credit Hours)   
An examination of the history of the built environment from the earliest
known forms to contemporary examples, in terms of architectural theory,
structural realities and socio-cultural usages.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the ma ny ways
architecture serves the human race, and be able to constructively analyze
the speciﬁc functions buildings serve within their particular cultural
temporal milieu
FNAR 367R   Architecture in Rome   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores architectural drawing as a way to incorporate
hands-on experience in students` study of architecture in Rome. Students
will develop drawing skills by conceptualizing architectural ideas in
relationship to Rome's buildings and sites.
Outcomes:
Upon successful completion of this course, students will be able
to develop basic architectural drawing skills, to understand graphic
standards and drawing conventions of the architectural design as well as
to analyze and appreciate Rome's architectural buildings and spaces

--- Page 395 ---
426  Fine and Performing Arts
FNAR 368   Fine Arts Internship   (1-4 Credit Hours)   
A comprehensive introduction to gallery and/or studio operations in
the Fine Arts Division. Internships will provide opportunities in various
aspects of administration, scholarship, teaching, and sustaining
standards in studio and/or gallery performance. Gallery internships
available at Loyola's Fine Arts Galleries. External internships upon
approval. Teaching/studio assistantship based on class availability.
Departmental consent required for enrollment.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will develop practical experience for the professional world and
be able to demonstrate knowledge of gallery/museum administration,
scholarship, exhibition production, and/or class preparation and teaching
FNAR 380   Internship I   (1-4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FNAR 332 Visual Communication III; Fine Arts Majors only   
Visual Communication majors complete an internship providing an
opportunity to use their visual and technical skills in a professional
setting.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students work with others to develop and complete projects on
a predetermined schedule; they get the opportunity to learn from
professionals in the ﬁeld; they ﬁnd out how well they are doing as judged
by the world outside the classroom
FNAR 381   Internship II   (1-4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Permission of chairperson   
Visual Communication majors complete an internship providing an
opportunity to use their visual and technical skills in a professional
setting.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students work with others to develop and complete projects on
a predetermined schedule; they get the opportunity to learn from
professionals in the ﬁeld; they ﬁnd out how well they are doing as judged
by the world outside the classroom
FNAR 382   Visual Communication IV   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FNAR 332 Visual Communication III and Senior standing or
instructor permission   
This course perfects the practice and tools of visual communication
through a series of advanced projects with the aim of creating a robust
and well-balanced body of work.
Outcomes:
Students are prepared to use their skills in research, analysis, and the
design processes that lead to creative conceptualization to create
appropriate design decisions and reﬁned design solutions
FNAR 383   Interactive Design   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FNAR 233 Digital Media Design   
This course introduces aspects of interaction and web design including
theory, common best practices, usability, information architecture,
graphic design in the interactive context, prototyping, and the technical
parameters of an interactive environment. Industry standard software will
be used. Strong emphasis will be placed on design principles, information
hierarchy, and typography.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-FNAR383/ICVM383/IFMS383   
Outcomes:
Experience in the research, planning, design, and prototyping of
interactive communicationFNAR 388   Critical Approaches to Visual Art   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FNAR 202: Modern Art, C- or higher   
This course examines key theoretical issues in contemporary
art. Students will apply these concepts to develop strategies for
creative output. The course will feature readings, discussions, written
assignments, and projects to explore interdisciplinary approaches that
emphasize idea as the primary means of visual production.
Outcomes:
Gain an understanding of key theoretical concepts in contemporary art;
Apply theoretical concepts for the production of artworks; Develop a
contemporary art practice in preparation for FNAR 398 Capstone
FNAR 390   Art History: Methods and Research   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Restricted to Art History Majors and Minors   
An examination of theoretical, critical and methodological issues as
related to Modern and Post-Modern art.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-FNAR390/IFMS390   
Outcomes:
Students will learn to recognize and apply a range of appropriate
theoretical approaches and scholarly methods
FNAR 391   Senior Thesis in Art History   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students develop an in-depth scholarly research paper while engaging
new theoretical frames or topics to expand upon the writing and research
of a paper of their choice from a previous art history class. In addition,
they will share their research in a ﬁnal, formal oral presentation.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students produce a polished in-depth research paper; They demonstrate
the ability to synthesize and apply ideas from scholarly sources;
formulate, develop, and articulate in verbal and written form relevant
issues
FNAR 392   Senior Thesis II: FNAR Art History Capstone   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FNAR 391 or instructor permission; Art History majors only;
Senior standing   
The second half of the capstone experience for art history majors. In
Senior Thesis II, students write an in-depth scholarly research paper.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students produce a polished in-depth research paper; They demonstrate
the ability to synthesize and apply ideas from scholarly sources;
formulate, develop, and defend a thesis; and critically analyze and
articulate in verbal and written form the issues and ideas relevant to their
topic
FNAR 393   Topics in Studio Art   (3 Credit Hours)   
Special topics in speciﬁc areas of study in studio art.
Outcomes:
Students will master topics in areas of studio art not offered elsewhere in
the curriculum
FNAR 394   Topics in Art History   (1-4 Credit Hours)   
Special topics in speciﬁc areas of study in art history.
Outcomes:
Students will master topics in areas of art history not offered elsewhere
in the curriculum

--- Page 396 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 427
FNAR 398   Fine Arts Capstone   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of the most advanced course in the student's
FNAR concentration   
The course serves as the culmination of each student's experience as a
Fine Art major. Students will demonstrate the ability to produce work that
exempliﬁed the application and synthesis of the knowledge gained from
the courses and experiences.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate the ability to produce art work suitable for
exhibit
FNAR 399   Independent Study   (1-4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  written permission of instructor and chairperson   
Advanced student are afforded the opportunity to work on an in-depth
project in the medium of his/her choice in a tutorial setting. The course is
developed in consultation with a faculty advisor and is stated formally in
a written contract. of deﬁnition, goals, procedures and outcomes.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate the ability to produce a signiﬁcant
body of original artwork on a focused theme
Music (MUSC)
MUSC 101   Music: Art of Listening   (3 Credit Hours)   
Focus is on the acquisition and enhancement of listening skills through
direct experience of musical works along with an examination of cross-
cultural similarities and differences among musical styles. Concert
attendance is required.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Outcomes:
A cultivation of musical perception through a process of repeated and
guided listening; strengthening of listening skills while developing and
expanding styles perspectives
MUSC 102   Class Piano for Beginners   (3 Credit Hours)   
For the student who has never had keyboard instruction and is interested
in learning the art of performance on the piano. Fundamentals of music
theory, note reading and personal enjoyment are emphasized. Strongly
recommended for those preparing to teach music in elementary school.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Outcomes:
A basic keyboard ability with an emphasis on reading music symbols
accurately while also enjoying the making and doing of music
MUSC 103   Class Guitar for Beginners   (3 Credit Hours)   
For the student who has never had guitar instruction and is interested
in learning the art of performance on the guitar. Fundamentals of music
theory, note reading and personal enjoyment are emphasized. Strongly
recommended for those preparing to teach music in elementary school.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Outcomes:
A basic guitar ability with an emphasis on reading music symbols
accurately while also enjoying the making and doing of musicMUSC 104   Gospel Choir   (1 Credit Hour)   
Admission through audition. A mixed ensemble of singers performing
primarily Gospel music (Spirituals, Blues, etc). Admission through
audition. The choir participates in at least one public performance each
semester. May be repeated to a limit of eight hours.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  X-MUSC104/BWS 104   
Outcomes:
Students gain proper vocal/choral technique and knowledge of the
musical literature offered each semester through rehearsal and
performance; They reflect on their personal and collective artistic growth
through the process
MUSC 105   Symphony Orchestra   (1 Credit Hour)   
Admission through audition. The study and performance of standard
orchestral literature. Students must provide their own instruments and
should have previous ensemble experience. The ensemble gives at least
two concerts each semester.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students gain proper instrumental technique and knowledge of the
musical literature offered each semester through rehearsal and
performance; Students reflect on their personal and collective artistic
growth throughout the process
MUSC 106   Guitar Ensemble   (1 Credit Hour)   
Admission through audition. For advanced guitarists. The study,
rehearsal and performance of transcriptions and original works for guitar
ensemble. Repertoire from the Renaissance through the present will be
performed. Students must provide their own instruments. Gives at least
one concert each semester.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students gain proper guitar technique and knowledge of the musical
literature offered each semester through rehearsal and performance;
Students reflect on their personal and collective artistic growth
throughout the process
MUSC 107   Chorus   (1 Credit Hour)   
University Chorus is a topics course in ensemble singing devoted to
the study, rehearsal and performance of standard choral literature of all
periods. Admission through audition. Gives at least two performances
each semester. Some sections require audition for admission.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students improve their vocal/choral technique and knowledge of the
musical literature through rehearsal and performance; They reflect on
their personal and collective artistic growth throughout the performance
process
MUSC 108   Liturgical Choir: Cantorum   (1 Credit Hour)   
Admission through audition. An SATB ensemble providing music for the
Sunday liturgies in Madonna della Strada Chapel and other university
liturgical and choral functions and concerts. Repertoire includes both
traditional and contemporary sacred music. Admission through audition.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students gain proper vocal/choral technique and knowledge of the
musical literature offered each semester through rehearsal and
performance; Students reflect on their personal and collective artistic
throughout the performance process

--- Page 397 ---
428  Fine and Performing Arts
MUSC 109   Jazz Ensemble   (1 Credit Hour)   
Admission through audition. Rehearsal and performance of standard
Jazz and Big Band music. Members must have previous Jazz Band
experience. Performs publicly at least twice each semester of the
academic year.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  X-MUSC109/BWS 109   
Outcomes:
Students improve instrumental technique and gain knowledge of the
musical literature offered through rehearsal and performance; Students
reflect on their personal and collective artistic growth throughout the
performance process
MUSC 110   Wind Ensemble   (1 Credit Hour)   
Admission through audition. The study and performance of standard
wind ensemble literature. Students must provide their own instruments
and should have previous ensemble experience. The ensemble gives at
least two concerts each semester.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students improve instrumental technique and gain knowledge of the
musical literature offered through rehearsal and performance; Students
reflect on their personal and collective artistic growth throughout the
performance process
MUSC 111   Percussion Ensemble   (1 Credit Hour)   
Enrollment Requirements: Audition and permission of the instructor. The
study and performance of standard percussion ensemble literature. The
ensemble gives at least two concerts each semester.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students improve instrumental technique and gain knowledge of the
musical literature offered through rehearsal and performance; Students
reflect on their personal and collective artistic growth throughout the
performance process
MUSC 112   Loyola University Technology Ensemble   (1 Credit Hour)   
Loyola University Technology Ensemble (LUTE) is a performing
ensemble with a composition & engineering component. Its primary
instrumentation is electronic or electroacoustic, encompassing digital
and analogue electronic instruments, live coding, circuit bending, and
repurposing of devices or objects, etc. LUTE will appear in public at least
once during each semester.
Course equivalencies:  X-COMP 112/MUSC 112   
Outcomes:
Collaborate to compose, engineer, and perform unique technology-driven
musical experiences; design interface modules for electroacoustic
performance; encode musical ideas in software or digital musical
instruments; perform publicly
MUSC 122   Introduction to Digital Music   (3 Credit Hours)   
Computers and digital tools have been seeping into the world of music,
and this course aims to explore this newly formed territory. This course
is intended for students who wish to learn more about electronic music,
signal processing, and algorithmic music composition. Understanding
of the physics of musical sound and digital audio, facility with hands-
on applications of algorithmic music composition and musicology, and
ability to design and render digital instruments.
Knowledge Area:  Quantitative Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  X-COMP 122/MUSC 122   MUSC 142   Class Voice for Beginners   (3 Credit Hours)   
For the student who has never had voice instruction and is interested
in learning the art of vocal performance. Fundamentals of music
theory, note reading and personal enjoyment are emphasized. Strongly
recommended for those preparing to teach in elementary school.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Course equivalencies:  THTR242/THTR142/MUSC142   
Outcomes:
A basic vocal ability with an emphasis on reading music symbols
accurately while also enjoying the making and doing of music
MUSC 144   Music Theory I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Co-requisites:  MUSC 145   
An introduction to the fundamentals of melodic construction in all the
diatonic modes (major/minor and modal) and culminates in control
of two-part counterpoint. Melodies will be examined and broken down
into their essential components. The class strengthens the basic
musicianship skills of the student through performance of the students'
written compositions illustrating the class concepts. Must be t aken
concurrently with MUSC 145.
Outcomes:
Through the study of melody students will develop an understanding of
musical notation, the organization and color of all diatonic scales (major/
minor and modal), interaction between intervals, transposition and its
implications, rhythmic and beat structure, and begin developing critical
analysis skills
MUSC 145   Musicianship Lab I   (1 Credit Hour)   
Co-requisites:  MUSC 144   
This course reinforces concepts presented in Music Theory I and
introduces students to the basic concepts of sight singing, ear training
and dictation. The voice is the class's primary focus. This course must be
taken concurrently with MUSC 144.
Outcomes:
Recognize Music Theory I concepts by ear, dictate accurately those
concepts, and recreate them on the voice and piano; Apply these
concepts to student's primary instrument
MUSC 153   The Music of China   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course surveys the broad range of Chinese musical traditions as
well as the practice of ﬁeldwork, music theory and methodological issues
encountered in Chinese music studies.
Outcomes:
Students will identify Chinese musical traditions throughout history and
their connections to the Chinese language, history, cultural and religious
studies and politics
MUSC 154   Intro to Opera   (3 Credit Hours)   
Survey of opera from 1600 to the present and consideration of opera
as an art form which combines music and drama. Analysis of libretto
structure and study of the variety of operatic styles are included.
Course equivalencies:  X-MUSC154/THTR154   
Outcomes:
Fundamental acquaintance with a wide selection of operatic literature
and the principle eras of the European and American traditions

--- Page 398 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 429
MUSC 154R   Introduction to Opera in Rome   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course offers the student an overview of the development of opera
in Europe with a particular emphasis on some of the most representative
Italian operas and authors from the 17th to the 20th century. As the
course considers opera as a cultural phenomenon, the historical,
intellectual, political, social, religious and economic conditions that
influenced the development of this art will be also examined.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Italian Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-MUSC154/THTR154   
Outcomes:
Students will acquire the basic understanding the cultural phenomenon
of opera and the style differences of different historical periods, as well
as musical terms
MUSC 155   Intro to Symphonic Music   (3 Credit Hours)   
Survey of the principal forms of orchestral music from the Baroque to the
present. Course will include: the symphony, concerto suite, overture, and
symphonic poems. (Also offered at Rome Center.)
Outcomes:
Functional knowledge of the language and grammar of music through
selected analysis and experience of speciﬁc symphonic literature
MUSC 156   Intro to Jazz   (3 Credit Hours)   
Survey of the development of jazz emphasizing the major trends and
artists of this unique American style. Listening skills will be developed.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora   
Course equivalencies:  X-MUSC156/BWS 156   
Outcomes:
Functional knowledge of the language and grammar of this uniquely
American music through selected analysis and experience of speciﬁc jazz
literature
MUSC 157   America Popular Song   (3 Credit Hours)   
Survey of American popular song from the early 19th century minstrel
shows to the present. The evolution of this music and its relationship to
society will be studied. Listening skills will be developed.
Outcomes:
Functional knowledge of the language and grammar of popular music
through selected analysis and experience of speciﬁc repertoire
MUSC 161   Music in United States   (3 Credit Hours)   
An historical survey and guided listening experience of the evolution of
music in the United States from the earliest inhabitants and settlers to
the dawn of the 21st century. Special emphasis will be given to a selected
era and/or music type.
Outcomes:
An understanding of the societal influences on the music of the United
States and an appreciation of its music repertoire
MUSC 185   Jazz Improvisation   (3 Credit Hours)   
Previous basic understanding of theory and analysis is essential.
Fundamentals will be expanded and enhanced through writing, listening
and performing. An emphasis will be placed on learning the jazz language
by ear. Students will also learn to read lead sheets and chord symbols,
developing the ability to apply the jazz language to the repertoire.
Outcomes:
Appreciation for and ability to create and perform jazz improvisation
MUSC 186   Jazz Arranging   (3 Credit Hours)   
Fundamentals of composition and arranging will be expanded and
enhanced through writing and listening. Students will learn information
about the instrumentation of the big band, instrument ranges, and how
to use software to make arrangements. Previous basic understanding of
theory and analysis is essential.MUSC 201   Music Technology I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This introductory course in Music Technology is designed to introduce
students to MIDI orchestration, sequencing and digital audio editing. The
course is designed to present software and hardware as tools for the
creation of sound design as musical composition.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
Outcomes:
Demonstrate proﬁciency in using software as a musical instrument to
orchestrate, perform and record
MUSC 202   Class Piano II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MUSC 102 or permission of the instructor   
This applied group class is designed for students who have successfully
completed MUSC 102, or have previously attained a similar level of
proﬁciency. Emphasis is on a variety of styles and levels of keyboard
repertoire to promote a balance of new information with musical material
that reinforce concepts.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate basic keyboard skills, piano repertoire and
musical styles, to express themselves musically at the piano
MUSC 203   Class Guitar II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MUSC 103 or permission of the department   
This course is a continuation of (MUSC 103) or a previously attained
equivalent level of study and musical skill development. Throughout the
course students reﬁne technical skills and music theory as applied to the
guitar. Students perform in both solo and ensemble settings.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an ongoing development of coordination skills,
ﬁngerboard knowledge, sight-reading skills, performance practices and
intermediate repertoire knowledge
MUSC 207   Chamber Choir   (1 Credit Hour)   
Audition Required. An ensemble of advanced singers performing works
written especially for the smaller choir. Performance of music from all
historical periods suitable for this type of choir. The choir participates
in at least two public performances each semester. Admission through
audition. May be repeated for up to eight credit hours.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students gain knowledge of the musical literature offered through
rehearsal and performance, while integrating proper vocal/choral
technique; Students reflect on their personal and collective artistic
growth throughout the performance process
MUSC 244   Music Theory II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MUSC 144; Corequisite: MUSC 245   
An introduction to the fundamentals of harmonic progressions controlled
through either expansion of a tonic-dominant phrase structure,
elaborations of two-part counterpoint structures, or control of the three
basic root motion models. Music will be analyzed using chord matrixes
and reductions into two-part frameworks. The class strengthens the
basic musicianship skills through performance students' compositions
illustrating the class concepts. Must be taken concurrently with
MUSC 245.
Outcomes:
Through the study of harmony students will develop an understanding
of all chord types, root motion, cadence types, how tonal music expands
upon the basic tonic-dominant phrase, voice leading techniques, and
begins exploring the techniques of chromaticism and modulation; The
class will also further develop the student's critical analysis skills

--- Page 399 ---
430  Fine and Performing Arts
MUSC 245   Musicianship Lab II   (1 Credit Hour)   
Co-requisites:  MUSC 244   
Students build on basic voice and board skills acquired in Musicianship
Lab I and reinforce concepts introduced in Music Theory II by recreating
the concepts on the keyboard and voice. This course must be taken
concurrently with MUSC 244.
Outcomes:
Recognize Music Theory II concepts by ear, dictate accurately those
concepts, and recreate them on the voice and piano; Apply these
concepts to student's primary instrument
MUSC 246   Composition I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Course deals with the study of music theory and simple and binary forms.
In addition to that, students compose an original piece of music for two
instruments that receives public performance.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Through the study of relevant music scores, students learn the principles
of composition and instrumentation to then apply them to their own
compositions
MUSC 247   Composition II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MUSC 246   
This course deals with the study of melody, counterpoint, harmony, and
shorter forms. In addition to the study of theory and form, students
compose an original piece of music for two instruments that is presented
professionally at a public performance.
Outcomes:
Through the study of related scores and with the supervision of
instructor, students compose an original work for violin and piano or
violoncello and piano
MUSC 248   Jazz Composition and Arranging   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MUSC 144   
A study of the harmonic, melodic, and rhythmic theories that lead to the
ability to compose and arrange in the jazz idiom. Emphasis will be placed
on common harmonic progressions, scale / chord relationships, melody,
song forms, and extended harmony and reharmonization. Students
will also learn the basic principles of arranging and music notation,
culminating in a ﬁnal composition and arranging project for jazz quintet.
Outcomes:
The ability to compose and arrange music for small jazz combos of up to
two horns plus rhythm section
MUSC 252   Music History I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MUSC 144 and MUSC 145 or taken concurrently   
European music from the Medieval to the early Baroque where vocal
music dominated, and the study of counterpoint led to the birth of
harmony.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies   
Outcomes:
Through listening, performance and study students demonstrate an
understanding of how melodic composition gave rise to harmony and
formed the foundation of Western musicMUSC 255   Music in Catholic Worship   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MUSC 252   
This course will trace the development of music in liturgy from Gregorian
chant through Vatican II and to the present, examining repertoire
and forms, musical and theological trends, and how music has been
employed in the expression of the living prayer of the Roman Catholic
Church through the centuries.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-MUSC255/CATH255   
Outcomes:
Students can identify the major shifts and movements of music in the
Catholic Church from the Middle Ages to the present, including the shifts
represented by the Second Vatican Council
MUSC 256   Jazz Music History   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a historical and listening survey exploring the development
of jazz music from its origins at the turn of the 20th century to the
music of the present era. Many styles of jazz and a multitude of
important musicians will be discussed, as well as important cultural and
sociological aspects of the art form.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Italian American Studies   
Outcomes:
Through listening, lecture, required reading, and concert attendance, the
student will gain an understanding of the basic musical elements of jazz,
it's musical and sociological contexts, and how these elements have
developed and changed over the music's varied history
MUSC 260   Conducting   (3 Credit Hours)   
The student will acquire a personal conducting style through study and
practical application and will develop the basic skills that make one an
effective, well-rounded conductor.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate rudimentary skills of conducting: including
conducting patterns, cues, score reading and analysis
MUSC 261   Lyric Diction I: Italian and German   (1 Credit Hour)   
This course will acquaint students with the rules of diction in the two
major languages of classical singing, German and Italian. Students will
gain both a theoretical understanding of the rules of diction and the
practical ability to make the relevant sounds and sing in these languages.
Concurrent enrollment in 280K Applied Music: Voice is required.
Outcomes:
To successfully transcribe Italian and German into IPA; To learn and
produce all of the relevant sounds of German and Italian; To sing in
German and Italian with accurate diction
MUSC 262   Lyric Diction II: French and Other Languages   (1 Credit Hour)   
This course will acquaint the student with the rules of French, English
and Latin. Students will gain both a theoretical understanding of the rules
of diction and the practical ability to make relevant sounds and sing in
these languages. Concurrent enrollment in 280K Applied Music: Voice is
required.
Outcomes:
To successfully transcribe French, English and Latin texts into IPA; To
learn to produce all of the relevant sounds of French; To sing in French,
English and Latin with accurate diction
MUSC 280A   Applied Music: Clarinet   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 30-minute individual lessons in clarinet. Performance
opportunities including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-
semester jury. May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development

--- Page 400 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 431
MUSC 280AA   Applied Music: Conducting   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  MUSC 144, MUSC 145, MUSC 244, MUSC 245, MUSC 260   
Twelve 30-minute individual lessons in conducting. Topics include:
baton techniques, gestural mechanics, ear training, score study,
transpositions, orchestrational basics, phrasing, and chord recognition.
Choral, orchestral, or wind band considerations will be explored in greater
detail, according to the background of the student.
Outcomes:
Advanced skills in conducting both small and large ensembles, score
study, rehearsal, and concert programming
MUSC 280B   Applied Music: Percussion   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 30-minute individual lessons in percussion. Performance
opportunities including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-
semester jury. May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 280BB   Applied Music: Improvisation   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  MUSC 144, 145, 244, 245, 185, 385   
Twelve 30-minute individual lessons in improvisation. Building upon a
strong theoretical foundation attained from the prerequisite courses,
students receive focused instruction on the harmonic, melodic, and
rhythmic theories that lead to the ability to improvise. Students may
study with any of the jazz faculty regardless of their primary instrument.
Outcomes:
Students will learn to improvise over intermediate to advanced tunes in
the jazz repertoire
MUSC 280C   Applied Music: Oboe   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 30-minute individual lessons in oboe. Performance opportunities
including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-semeste r jury.
May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 280E   Applied Music: Trumpet   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 30-minute individual lessons in trumpet. Performance
opportunities including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-
semester jury. May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 280F   Applied Music: Saxophone   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 30-minute individual lessons in saxophone. Performance
opportunities including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-
semester jury. May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 280G   Applied Music: Guitar   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 30-minute individual lessons in classical or electric guitar.
Performance opportunities including studio classes, Honors Recital, and
an end-of-semester jury. May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical developmentMUSC 280I   Applied Music: Organ   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 30-minute individual lessons in organ. Performance opportunities
including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-semeste r jury.
May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 280J   Applied Music: Piano   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 30-minute individual lessons in piano. Performance opportunities
including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-semeste r jury.
May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 280K   Applied Music: Voice   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 30-minute individual lessons in voice. Performance opportunities
including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-semeste r jury.
May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 280L   Applied Music: Violin   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 30-minute individual lessons in violin. Performance opportunities
including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-semeste r jury.
May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 280M   Applied Music: Flute   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 30-minute individual lessons in flute. Performance opportunities
including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-semeste r jury.
May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 280N   Applied Music: Cello   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 30-minute individual lessons in cello. Performance opportunities
including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-semeste r jury.
May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 280O   Applied Music: Double Bass   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 30-minute individual lessons in double bass. Performance
opportunities including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-
semester jury. May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 280P   Applied Music: Viola   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 30-minute individual lessons in viola. Performance opportunities
including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-semeste r jury.
May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development

--- Page 401 ---
432  Fine and Performing Arts
MUSC 280Q   Applied Music: Horn   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 30-minute individual lessons in horn. Performance opportunities
including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-semeste r jury.
May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 280R   Applied Music: Trombone   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 30-minute individual lessons in trombone. Performance
opportunities including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-
semester jury. May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 280S   Applied Music: Harp   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 30-minute individual lessons in harp. Performance opportunities
including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-semeste r jury.
May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 280U   Applied Music: Drum Set   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 30-minute individual lessons in drum set. Performance
opportunities including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-
semester jury. May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 280V   Applied Music: Tuba   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 30-minute individual lessons in tuba. Performance opportunities
including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-semeste r jury.
May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 280Y   Applied Music: Bassoon   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 30-minute individual lessons in bassoon. Performance
opportunities including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-
semester jury. May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 280Z   Applied Music: Composition   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  MUSC 144, 244,145, 245; 246 or 248   
Twelve 30-minute individual lessons. Building upon a strong theoretical
foundation attained from the prerequisite courses, students receive
focused instruction to develop original compositions from concept
to completion. Idioms, genres, forms, instrumentation, and other
considerations will vary from student to student. May be repeated for up
to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
The ability to more fully develop original musical ideas into completed,
and professionally notated, compositionsMUSC 289   Chamber Ensemble   (1 Credit Hour)   
Admission by audition. Small group applied music study through
ensemble playing. One or more public performance is required.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students gain knowledge of the musical literature offered and improve
their ensemble playing skills through rehearsal and performance;
Students reflect on their personal and collective artistic growth
throughout the performance process
MUSC 290   Jazz Combo   (1 Credit Hour)   
Small group applied jazz music study through ensemble playing. One or
more public performance is required. Enrollment Conditions: Audition and
permission of the instructor
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students gain knowledge of the musical literature and improve their
ensemble playing skills through rehearsal and performance; Students
reflect on their personal and collective artistic growth throughout the
performance process
MUSC 320   Rehearsal and Performance   (1 Credit Hour)   
This course allows students to receive credit for performing in an on-
campus production during the semester. Completion and submission of a
journal or paper is required. Permission of department is required.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
MUSC 326   Digital Music Programming   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP/MUSC 122, MUSC 201, COMP 125, COMP 150,
COMP 170, or permission of instructor   
This course is an exploration of coding for music applications.
Topics include digital audio and synthesis theory and basic, musical
data structures, and principles of computer music composition and
interactivity. Students will design synthesis and sampling instruments,
algorithmic music generators, signal processors, and interactive control
systems using one or more music programming languages.
Course equivalencies:  X-COMP 326/MUSC 326   
Outcomes:
Create software modules for processing digital audio, MIDI, and
generative music; develop interactive interfaces; export applications or
modules; produce a portfolio of creative projects in areas of real-time
audio/MIDI processing
MUSC 333   Music and Ritual in Catholic Liturgical Life   (3 Credit Hours)   
Drawing both from liturgical documents and the ritual texts themselves,
this course explores how the theology and spirituality of our Catholic
tradition are expressed in the music, liturgies, and rituals of the Roman
Catholic Church.
Outcomes:
Students are conversant with the components, structure, and musical
elements of the Catholic liturgy and how the Mass interacts with the
spiritual and cultural lives of the faithful
MUSC 344   Music Theory III   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MUSC 244 or permission of chair   
Study of large compositional forms and the extended harmonic
vocabulary of music of the 19th century. Continued development of aural,
keyboard, sight-singing, compositional and analytical skills in class,
computer lab and small group sessions.
Outcomes:
Expansion and deepening of knowledge of the language and grammar
of music and their interaction; Ability to use this understanding in both
written and aural analysis and to form and defend evaluative judgments
about music

--- Page 402 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 433
MUSC 345   Music Theory IV   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MUSC 344 or permission of chair   
Continued examination of the structural aspects of music with a focus
on contrapuntal forms. Study of the compositional vocabularies of 20th
century music. Continued development of aural, keyboard, sightsinging,
compositional and analytical skills in class, computer lab and weekly
skills sessions.
Outcomes:
Expansion and deepening of knowledge of the language and grammar
of music and their interaction; Ability to use this understanding in both
written and aural analysis and to form and defend evaluative judgments
about music
MUSC 347   Composition III   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MUSC 247   
Course provides students with the ability to compose an original work for
string quartet and examines larger forms, chromatic harmony, extended
tonality, and modern techniques.
Outcomes:
Through the writing of original music and the study of related scores
students demonstrate an understanding of musical forms and
techniques and the ability to compose music for string quartet
MUSC 353   Music History II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MUSC 244 and MUSC 245   
A new shared musical language spreads through Europe during
the Baroque through Romantic period giving rise to the best known
composers of Western music.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Course equivalencies:  MUSC353 / MUSC253   
Outcomes:
Students demonstrate an understanding of how composers developed
music during this common practice period to create some of the most
well known works of the Western cannon
MUSC 354   Music History III   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MUSC 244 and MUSC 245   
Composers in the modern era turn to innovative and foreign influences
as technological developments allow the Western musical tradition to
spread throughout the world.
Course equivalencies:  MUSC354 / MUSC254   
Outcomes:
Students are able to identify and articulate the many musical innovations
and movements that helped turn Western music into a global force of
expression
MUSC 363   Foundations of Vocal Technique and Pedagogy   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course will acquaint students with the basics of anatomy and
physiology associated with singing technique, including the anatomy
of the larynx, the structure of posture and breathing, and the physics of
resonance. Additional topics will include vocal registers, healthy use of
voice, and the basics of vocal instruction. Recognize healthy modes of
phonation across musical styles. Learn to structure a voice lesson.
Outcomes:
Identify the major anatomical structures used in singing and their
functionMUSC 364   Vocal Repertoire   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course covers a broad spectrum of vocal repertoire from 1600 to the
present. Emphasis will be given to the application of stylistic conventions
and the development of effective performance skills, culminating in
public performance.
Outcomes:
To gain knowledge of important vocal repertoire and history; To develop
the creative capacity to perform vocal music of different styles and eras
MUSC 365   Vocal Performance Workshop   (3 Credit Hours)   
The class aims to develop students' ability to deliver compelling
performances on the musical stage. The ﬁrst portion of the semester
is focused on gaining and applying theoretical knowledge of acting for
the singer. The second portion of the class focuses on preparing and
performing opera/musical scenes.
Outcomes:
Acquire foundational skills in acting for singers / Learn basics of
stagecraft for musical production / Perform operatic and/or musical
theatre scenes
MUSC 370   The Business of Music   (3 Credit Hours)   
The Business of Music will offer a broad overview as to how the music
industry works and provide insight into various career options. The
course will include weekly discussions on current events in the music
industry as they occur and feature a host of guest speakers. Students will
also learn about the recording industry, music publishing, and the digital
music world.
Outcomes:
An understanding of careers in the areas of performance, composition,
production, management, education, and radio
MUSC 374   Musical Theatre Repertoire   (4 Credit Hours)   
This capstone repertoire course synthesizes musical theatre history,
theory and performance. It is designed to develop students' ability to
perform vocally, dramatically and physically within the canon of musical
theatre repertoire. It culminates in a musical theatre showcase which
features student performance of the repertoire learned in class.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the history of musical
theatre performance by comparing the work of signiﬁcant composers,
directors and choreographers and demonstrate understanding of the
intrinsic requirements for effective synthesis of vocal, dramatic and
dance performance
MUSC 380A   Applied Music Advanced: Clarinet   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 60-minute individual lessons in clarinet. Performance
opportunities including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-
semester jury. May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 380AA   Applied Music Advanced: Conducting   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  MUSC 144, MUSC 145, MUSC 244, MUSC 245, MUSC 260   
Twelve 60-minute individual lessons in conducting. Topics include:
baton techniques, gestural mechanics, ear training, score study,
transpositions, orchestrational basics, phrasing, and chord recognition.
Choral, orchestral, or wind band considerations will be explored in greater
detail, according to the background of the student.
Outcomes:
Advanced skills in conducting both small and large ensembles, score
study, rehearsal, and concert programming

--- Page 403 ---
434  Fine and Performing Arts
MUSC 380B   Applied Music Advanced: Percussion   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 60-minute individual lessons in percussion. Performance
opportunities including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-
semester jury. May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 380BB   Applied Music Advanced: Improvisation   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  MUSC 144, 145, 244, 245, 185, 385   
Twelve 60-minute individual lessons in improvisation. Building upon a
strong theoretical foundation attained from the prerequisite courses,
students receive focused instruction on the harmonic, melodic, and
rhythmic theories that lead to the ability to improvise. Students may
study with any of the jazz faculty regardless of their primary instrument.
Outcomes:
Students will learn to improvise over intermediate to advanced tunes in
the jazz repertoire
MUSC 380C   Applied Music Advanced: Oboe   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 60-minute individual lessons in oboe. Performance opportunities
including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-semeste r jury.
May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 380E   Applied Music Advanced: Trumpet   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 60-minute individual lessons in trumpet. Performance
opportunities including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-
semester jury. May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 380F   Applied Music Advanced: Saxophone   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 60-minute individual lessons in saxophone. Performance
opportunities including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-
semester jury. May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 380G   Applied Music Advanced: Guitar   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 60-minute individual lessons in classical or electric guitar.
Performance opportunities including studio classes, Honors Recital, and
an end-of-semester jury. May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 380I   Applied Music Advanced: Organ   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 60-minute individual lessons in organ. Performance opportunities
including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-semeste r jury.
May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 380J   Applied Music Advanced: Piano   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 60-minute individual lessons in piano. Performance opportunities
including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-semeste r jury.
May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical developmentMUSC 380K   Applied Music Advanced: Voice   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 60-minute individual lessons in voice. Performance opportunities
including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-semeste r jury.
May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 380L   Applied Music Advanced: Violin   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 60-minute individual lessons in violin. Performance opportunities
including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-semeste r jury.
May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 380M   Applied Music Advanced: Flute   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 60-minute individual lessons in flute. Performance opportunities
including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-semeste r jury.
May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 380N   Applied Music Advanced: Cello   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 60-minute individual lessons in cello. Performance opportunities
including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-semeste r jury.
May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 380O   Applied Music Advanced: Double Bass   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 60-minute individual lessons in double bass. Performance
opportunities including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-
semester jury. May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 380P   Applied Music Advanced: Viola   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 60-minute individual lessons in viola. Performance opportunities
including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-semeste r jury.
May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 380Q   Applied Music Advanced: Horn   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 60-minute individual lessons in horn. Performance opportunities
including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-semeste r jury.
May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 380R   Applied Music: Advanced Trombone   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 60-minute individual lessons in trombone. Performance
opportunities including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-
semester jury. May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development

--- Page 404 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 435
MUSC 380S   Applied Music Advanced: Harp   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 60-minute individual lessons in harp. Performance opportunities
including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-semeste r jury.
May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 380U   Applied Music Advanced: Drum Set   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 60-minute individual lessons in drum set. Performance
opportunities including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-
semester jury. May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 380V   Applied Music Advanced: Tuba   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 60-minute individual lessons in tuba. Performance opportunities
including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-semeste r jury.
May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 380Y   Applied Music Advanced: Bassoon   (1 Credit Hour)   
Twelve 60-minute individual lessons in bassoon. Performance
opportunities including studio classes, Honors Recital, and an end-of-
semester jury. May be repeated for up to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
Functional to advanced performance ability based on technical and
musical development
MUSC 380Z   Applied Music Advanced: Composition   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  MUSC 144, 244,145, 245; 246 or 248   
Twelve 60-minute individual lessons. Building upon a strong theoretical
foundation attained from the prerequisite courses, students receive
focused instruction to develop original compositions from concept
to completion. Idioms, genres, forms, instrumentation, and other
considerations will vary from student to student. May be repeated for up
to 8 credit hours.
Outcomes:
The ability to more fully develop original musical ideas into completed,
and professionally notated, compositions
MUSC 385   Jazz Improvisation II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MUSC 185 Jazz Improvisation   
A continued study of the harmonic, melodic, and rhythmic theories that
lead to the ability to improvise in the jazz genre. Emphasis is on ear
training, listening, extended harmony, motivic development, rhythm, and
scale /chord relationships.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to construct bass lines, build four-part chordal
accompaniment at the piano, and improvise melodies and improvise over
intermediate to advanced tunes in the jazz
MUSC 386   Orchestration   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MUSIC 144 or permission of chair   
Immersion in the art of writing for the instruments of the orchestra
in order to understand and write /arrange music for the indigenous
capability of each instrument while achieving desired sound effects.
Outcomes:
Ability to score effectively for every instrumental family and also to write/
arrange music for any instrumental ensembleMUSC 387   Solo Recital: MUSC Capstone   (1-4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Department's permission and audition   
Preparation and presentation of a full-length, balanced program by
memory in one's major area of performance. This may be taken twice for
credit.
Outcomes:
For the performance-oriented student, the capstone of 4 years of applied
study as well as fulﬁllment of an experience required by graduate schools
for performance majors
MUSC 388   Lecture/Recital: MUSC Capstone   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Music Major only   
A directed studies capstone experience course. Project proposal must
be approved by the course advisor by the end of the ﬁrst week of the
semester. A Public presentation of the project is required. Examples of
appropriate capstone projects include, a performance of a composition,
paper presentation, digital music design for a commercial product,
conduct a chamber ensemble or the creation of a music installation.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Synthesize previous course work into a public presentation in the
students' area of interest
MUSC 389   Topics in Music   (1-9 Credit Hours)   
Speciﬁc course titles and content will vary. May be taken as directed
study under the supervision of a designated faculty member for
independent or small group research in special areas of interest. Because
of variations described, students may repeat the course for a total of six
hours.
Outcomes:
Opportunity to experience a music elective which is not ordinarily in the
music offerings and thus enables individual enhancement of unique
interests
MUSC 394   Internship in Music   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
Music students complete a semester long internship providing an
opportunity to use their technical, research or organizations skills in
a professional setting. Students must complete and reflect upon 50
hours of internship experience per credit hour that is pre-approved by
the Department of Fine and Performing Arts. Department permission
required. No more than 6 credit hours of Internship or Fieldwork can be
applied to the major.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students gain professional experience working at a music organization
while reflecting on their work experience and applying theories and
techniques acquired from their music courses
MUSC 397   Fieldwork in Chicago - Music   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
Variable credit (1-6 hours) given for performances or projects undertaken
with professional music organizations outside the university. Students
keep a journal and write evaluative papers. Permission of the Department
of Fine and Performing Arts Required. Repeatable for up to 6 credit hours,
however no more than 6 credit hours can be applied towards the major.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Speciﬁc outcomes and credit hours to be assigned to be determined by
the student in consultation with the Director of Music and the project
supervisor

--- Page 405 ---
436  Fine and Performing Arts
MUSC 399   Independent Study   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  written permission of chairperson   
Independent study projects may be of various kinds and in any
recognized area of the theatre arts. Such projects should be done under
the close supervision of a music faculty member.
Outcomes:
Speciﬁc outcomes and credit hours assigned to be determined by
the student in consultation with the chairperson and theatre faculty
supervisor
Theater (THTR)
THTR 100   Intro to Theatre Experience   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introductory study of the theatrical art form and its
contemporary production practice. Students engage in a series of
workshops and participatory creative projects.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate the ability to identify the variety of
collaborating arts and artists that combine to create of a work of theatre;
to analyze a play script for live performance; to evaluate theatrical
production; and to creatively apply knowledge of theatrical process
through expressive and creative endeavors
THTR 142   Class Voice for Beginners   (3 Credit Hours)   
This class is for the student who has never had voice instruction
and is interested in learning the art of performance in voice. Strongly
recommended for those interested in the music major, theater or public
speaking/performance
Course equivalencies:  THTR242/THTR142/MUSC142   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding and application of the
fundamentals of music theory, diction, and tone
THTR 154   Introduction to Opera   (3 Credit Hours)   
Survey of opera from 1600 to the present and consideration of opera
as an art form which combines music and drama. Analysis of libretto
structure and study of the variety of operatic styles are included.
Course equivalencies:  X-MUSC154/THTR154   
Outcomes:
Fundamental acquaintance with a wide selection of operatic literature
and the principle eras of the European and American traditions
THTR 203   Dramatic & Theatrical Process   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to the basic methods of analyzing and
interpreting plays representative of the modern stage (from Ibsen to the
present). It explores how text analysis is, for all theatre artists, a critical
ﬁrst step in transferring the printed play text to the stage.
Outcomes:
Students will acquire the ability to analyze a play's structure and
ideational content, its characters, and the potential challenge s each play
presents to theatre artists seeking to produce the play on the stage for a
modern audienceTHTR 204   Playwriting   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THTR 100 or THTR 203   
This course is and introduction to the theories and techniques of
playwriting with particular emphasis on the analysis of dramatic
structure.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the theories and
techniques of playwriting and dramatic structure through application of
these skills in several playwriting exercises and the development of a one
act play
THTR 205   Theatre in Chicago   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to live theatre in the rich Chicago theatre
scene. Students will develop an appreciation and enjoyment of drama
through attendance at live theatre performance and sharpen critical
thinking skills through written critiques and discussion of those
productions.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of and appreciation for the range of
theatrical experiences, traditions and expressions available in the City of
Chicago
THTR 209   Screenwriting   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces students to the process of writing for the
screen. Through exercises and analysis of structure and story-telling
fundamentals, writers develop a working sense of the paradigm and
the art of dramatic writing. Extensive writing requirements cover all
aspects of screenwriting, culminating in the development of a workable
screenplay.
Course equivalencies:  X-COMM326/THTR209/IFMS209   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the fundamentals of
screenwriting through the completion of various writing exercises and the
creation of a screenplay
THTR 227   Stage Management   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores the role of the stage manager in theatrical
production from pre-production through closing documentation.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of the responsibilities and
duties of a Stage Manager to a production; develop the necessary
communication and organizational skills to fulﬁll these responsibilities in
a production experience; and be exposed to various techniques and tools
used in professional stage management
THTR 235   Figure Studio   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FNAR 113 or 114 or permission of the instructor   
This is an advanced level studio course designed to introduce the human
form with an emphasis on the application of drawing and wet media.
Course equivalencies:  X-FNAR235/THTR235   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the human
form and anatomy through expanded practice and articulation of both
formal and artistic ideas

--- Page 406 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 437
THTR 241   Voice & Diction for Stage I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the techniques of effective voice and speech
production.
Course equivalencies:  THTR 241 / THTR 241E   
Outcomes:
Through class exercises and presentations, students will demonstrate
greater knowledge and control over their breath support, tonal placement,
vocal resonance, projection, clarity of articulation, Standard American
vowel and consonant formation, language orchestration and coloration
THTR 244   Voice & Diction for Stage II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THTR 241   
This course is for students who have completed Voice and Diction for the
Stage I and explores advanced voice and speech techniques. Students
will continue work on their individual voice/speech challenges as well as
focusing on the special voice/speech skills required of the stage actor.
Outcomes:
Through a series of in class presentations, students will demonstrate
their control over the voice, speech, and language challenges which
confront the actor in the performance of non-realistic plays (Shakespeare,
Restoration Comedy, Expressionism, and Absurd) and in realistic plays
with heightened language
THTR 252   Theatrical Design I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces the theatre student to the fundamentals of design
especially as they relate to the theatrical design of sets, lights, and
costumes.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of the tools a set, costume,
and lighting designer use to express their ideas; improve their abilities
to communicate their creative ideas; appreciate how design affects an
overall theatrical experience; and be prepared to engage in practical
design experience in our theatre
THTR 261   Beginning Acting   (3 Credit Hours)   
Beginning Acting is an introduction designed to provide a foundation
in the critical understanding and practical application of cont emporary
acting theories and techniques. Content will focus on stimulating full
utilization of the actor's instrument (mind, body, voice, imagination, and
emotion) and using exercises and improvisations to provide a practical
approach to standard acting challenges.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will develop skills in observation, concentration and
imagination, as well as critical skills in script analysis
THTR 267   Acting Theories &Techniques II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THTR 266   
This course builds on the skills introduced in THTR 266 and development
of physical and vocal skills towards performance of character from
classical texts.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Shakespeare Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will develop skills to research historical information for
application in performance of characters and improve use of the body
and voice to communicate characterTHTR 275   Teleplay Production   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THTR 266 or Permission of ICVM director   
This course explores the challenges and methods of producing, acting
and directing for the camera.
Course equivalencies:  X-THTR275/IFMS275   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate and understanding of the process of problem
solving of producing, acting and directing for the camera through the
production of on camera scenes
THTR 300   Design Technology: Special Effects, Sound Engineer   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Special Effects, Sound Engineering, Moving Light Programing,
Projections, Computer Aided Drafting and Automation Design
Outcomes:
To provide a broad overview of current state of the art stage design
technologies through lectures, demonstrations, and hands-on work
THTR 301   Costume Technology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THTR 252 and 253   
This course introduces the student to the fundamentals of costume
construction including: pattern draughting, corsetry, different stitch uses,
pleating and gathering techniques, tools of the shop, and basic draping.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to: use a basic pattern or sloper to generate their
own period costumes, understand why different stitches or construction
methods are used, know the tools of the shop, improve their knowledge of
fabric choices, and understand the process of draping
THTR 305   Theatre Workshop: Special Topics   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces the student to a style, genre or method theatre
making through active application in exercises, demonstrations, games
and workshops.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will develop skills in applying performance theory to practice;
develop performance skills in a particular style or genre; expand a
repertoire of rehearsal techniques; and develop skills to create original
theatre pieces
THTR 321   Practicum: Costumes   (2 Credit Hours)   
This course is a practical application of the material studied in a variety
of theatre classes, and provides hands on experience scenic or costume
construction.
Course equivalencies:  THTR321/THTR 321E/THTR321C   
Outcomes:
Students will acquire a variety of skills necessary for producing theatre;
including collaboration and organization skills and will gain appreciation
for the complexity play production
THTR 321C   Practicum: Costumes   (2 Credit Hours)   
This course is a practical application of the material studied in a variety
of theatre classes, and provides hands on experience scenic or costume
construction.
Course equivalencies:  THTR321/THTR 321E/THTR321C   
Outcomes:
Students will acquire a variety of skills necessary for producing theatre;
including collaboration and organization skills and will gain appreciation
for the complexity play production

--- Page 407 ---
438  Fine and Performing Arts
THTR 321E   Practicum: Electrics   (2 Credit Hours)   
This course is a practical application of the material studied in a variety
of theatre classes, and provides hands on experience with electrics.
Course equivalencies:  THTR321/THTR 321E/THTR321C   
Outcomes:
Students will acquire a variety of skills necessary for producing theatre;
including collaboration and organization skills and will gain appreciation
for the complexity play production
THTR 321P   Theatre Practicum: Production Staff   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  Permission of the Department   
This course is a practical application of the material studied in a variety
of theatre classes, and provides hands on experience as production staff.
Outcomes:
Students will acquire a variety of skills necessary for producing theatre;
including collaboration and organization skills and will gain appreciation
for the complexity play production
THTR 321R   Theatre Practicum: Running Crew   (1 Credit Hour)   
This course is a practical application of the material studied in a variety
of theatre classes, and provides hands on experience with a running crew.
Outcomes:
Students will acquire a variety of skills necessary for producing theatre;
including collaboration and organization skills and will gain appreciation
for the complexity play production
THTR 321S   Practicum: Scenic   (2 Credit Hours)   
Theatre Practicum (Scenery) is one of four experiential learning courses
that will provide the student with an opportunity for practical application
of varied techniques and theories in planning and construction of
theatrical scenery and properties. The speciﬁc topics and skills the
course will focus on vary from semester to semester as per the demands
of each design.
THTR 323   Rehearsal & Performance   (1-12 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  permission of the instructor   
This course allows students to receive credit for stage managing, acting
in or directing a campus production during the semester. Completion and
submission of a journal or paper is required. Course may be repeated up
to 12 times for a total of no more than 12 credit hours.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will gain performance experience, assess personal artistic
growth, and reflect on application of performance theory and technique
covered in coursework to production practice
THTR 324   Applied Design and Management   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
This independent study course supports student scene, costume,
lighting, make-up, sound or property designers and stage managers
selected by the faculty to design or manage for university productions.
Department Permission Required.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will deepen their understanding of a design process via ﬁrst
hand experience in our theatre
THTR 324D   Applied Design   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
This class will teach Stage Design techniques in practice in production
through mentorship. Students will design productions or assist faculty
designers.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will accomplish goals in Communication, Collaboration and
Conception; Design, Application and ReflectionTHTR 324M   Applied Management   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
This class will teach Stage Management techniques in practice in
production through mentorship. Students will Stage Manage or Assistant
Stage Manage productions.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will accomplish goals in Communication, Collaboration and
Conception; Application; Reflection
THTR 325   Costume Design I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course exposes students in the planning, design and execution of
costumes for the stage though a variety of costume design projects
throughout historical periods and stylistic genres.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of how a costume designer
makes choices based on color, silhouette, line, texture, historical research,
personal style, collaborative input, and intended response from the
audience through application on projects
THTR 326   Costume Design II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THTR 325   
This course continues the project work from Costume Design I, exploring
more detail in style and historical accuracy.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate the ability to prepare a costume design in any
genre or period
THTR 327   Theatre Management and Arts Leadership   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THTR 100 or THTR 203   
This course is an introduction to the economic, managerial and
administrative aspects of American Theatre and performing arts in
general, with an emphasis on the non-for proﬁt Chicago and Regional
Theatre Industry and practical and contemporary aspects of the ﬁeld. Any
student looking to work in performing arts leadership or administration or
start their own company will ﬁnd this course valuable.
Outcomes:
Students demonstrate knowledge of the evolution of arts organizations
and theatrical management; practical management tools; the economic
challenges of producing theatre; production trends in the industry;
the theories and processes behind planning and decision making; and
students will gain appreciation for the importance of management in
theatrical productions and organizations
THTR 328   Lighting Design I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to the principles of theatrical lighting
design and the process by which a designer makes choices based on
script analysis, period research and collaborative interaction.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-THTR328/ICVM328/IFMS328   
Outcomes:
The student will develop a process by which to approach lighting design
as well as an understanding of instrumentation and control of stage
lighting
THTR 329   Make-up and Mask Design   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course involves a hands-on study of make-up techniques especially
as they relate to basic theatrical needs, character make-up, and special
effects make-up.
Outcomes:
Students will be prepared to use make-up effectively in the theatre either
as performers or beginning make-up designers, and to understand the
variety of techniques and tools a make-up designer has available

--- Page 408 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 439
THTR 330   Lighting Design II   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a continuation of the study of the principles of theatrical
lighting design and the process by which a designer makes choices
based on script analysis, period research and collaborative interaction
Outcomes:
The student will develop a process by which to approach lighting design
as well as an understanding of instrumentation and control of stage
lighting
THTR 331   Movement: Theories & Technique I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the relationship between the kinetic and
kinesthetic experiences and personality development.
Course equivalencies:  THTR 331 / THTR 331E   
Outcomes:
Through a series of exercises, students will demonstrate an awareness
of one's physical mannerisms, increased conﬁdence in one's physical
presence on stage and demonstrate physical transformation into
character
THTR 335   London Theatre Experience   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a month long study abroad experience which allows the
student to intensively study British theatre through excursions within
London, special guest lecturers, walking tours, workshops, gallery and
museum visits, and attendance of at least eight plays.
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of the importance of London theatre
and its influence on the rest of the world's theatre
THTR 336   Stage Combat for Actors   (3 Credit Hours)   
This class will teach Stage Combat techniques that will allow actors to
perform ﬁghts effectively and safely. Students will work towards a ﬁnal
performance involving all students in a story told through violence.
Outcomes:
Be able to perform a choreographed stage combat sequence effectively
and safely at full speed and before a live audience
THTR 341   Studies in Dramatic Form   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course studies the various structural forms drama has taken from
the Greeks to the present. In particular it looks at tragedy, comedy, and
melodrama and seeks to ﬁnd their roots in the cultures which nurtured
them.
Outcomes:
the student will be able to distinguish various dramatic forms as well
as their roots in their cultures, and will have a vocabulary with which to
discuss and evaluate them
THTR 344   Dialects for the Stage   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provide instruction in the dialects most frequently used
by the American actor and to explore a systematic approach to dialect
acquisition which will serve the student in further independent dialect
study.
Outcomes:
Students will acquire a working knowledge of the International Phonetic
Alphabet, an understanding of the historical and cultural background
of each dialect, skills in applying dialects to dramatic texts, and an
introduction to the work of the dialect coach in the theatre
THTR 345   Drafting for the Theatre   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces the student to basic theatrical drafting techniques
and mediums.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate the ability to draft ground plan and section,
scenic elevations as well as a light plotTHTR 346   Scenic Art: Color Elevation to Scene Painting   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course is introduces the student to basic scene painting techniques
for the theatre.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of the role of the scenic artist
in relationship to the scenic designer, develop basic level skills required to
execute the designer's intention or vision and execute a paint elevation
THTR 347   Children's Theatre   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to the basic principles and techniques of
producing theatre for young audiences. Methods of working with child
performers will be applied to in a laboratory setting with children.
Outcomes:
Students will identify the age-level characteristics of child audiences and
appropriate script choices for each level
THTR 348   Theatre Pedagogy   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores the process of engaging children with teaching
artistry techniques such as theatre acting games, design, and technical
theatre as a means towards self-expression, personal development
and content learning. This course will utilize planning tools and teach
facilitation techniques that can be utilized across artistic practices.
Laboratory experiences working with children are provided.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  THTR348/CIEPM95   
Outcomes:
Students will articulate the differences and similarities between theatre
for children and creative dramatics disciplines, develop age appropriate
materials and exercises, identify appropriate facilitating methods and
techniques and apply these techniques in a laboratory setting
THTR 352   Theatrical Design II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THTR 252   
An Intermediate course of study to explore the process of Theatre Design
(Scenic, Costumes, and Lighting.) Collaboration and storytelling thru
visual means is the key to understanding text-based theatre. Each
individual will have the opportunity to express ideas in class discussions,
written critical analysis and execution of design while enhancing the
process of design
Outcomes:
The purpose of this course is to develop intermediate design skills
building upon those learned THTR 252
THTR 353   Theatrical Design III   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THTR 252 and THTR 352   
This team taught course will alternate between full group discussions on
topics valuable to all disciplines and small group instruction on speciﬁc
techniques within sub-disciplines. Students will declare a discipline at
beginning of the course. Students can repeat the course to pursue a
second discipline. Students will be placed in teams of complime ntary
disciplines.
THTR 354   Storytelling Design: Puppetry, Properties and Toy   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THTR 252, and either THTR 261 or 266   
Puppetry is one of the oldest forms of storytelling. This course is
intended to allow the student to several explore different forms of
storytelling through the use of puppets and puppetry. The course will
explore shadow puppetry, toy theatre and hand & rod puppetry. Each
student will develop, as a member of a series of "production teams", a
brief performance piece base.
Outcomes:
Students will gain skill in design through the storytelling techniques of
puppetry and toy theatre

--- Page 409 ---
440  Fine and Performing Arts
THTR 355   Sound Design I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THTR 252   
This course is an introduction to the principles of sound design with and
emphasis on theatrical performance. The student will develop a process
for approaching sound design, and for expressing their concept and
intention in a collaborative and presentation setting.
Outcomes:
The student will develop a process by which to approach sound design
as well as an understanding of equipment and control of theatrical sound
production
THTR 356   Sound Design II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THTR 355 Sound Design I   
This course is a continuation of work begun in THTR 355: Sound Design I.
The student will develop a process for approaching sound design, and for
expressing their concept and intention in a collaborative and presentation
setting.
Outcomes:
The student will develop a process by which to approach sound design
as well as an understanding of equipment and control of theatrical sound
production
THTR 364   Theatre History and Literature I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THTR 203   
Theatre History and Literature is a part of a four-course sequence that
examines works of dramatic literature in their historical context. Theatre
History and Literature I focuses on the development of theatre from Greek
through Jacobean and Caroline periods. Learning They will also apply
research to creative practice.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Shakespeare Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will identify and describe events, practitioners, practices,
theatre architecture and signiﬁcant plays within their historical context
THTR 365   Theatre History and Literature II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THTR 203   
Theatre History and Literature is a four course sequence that examines
works of dramatic literature in their historical context. Theatre History
and Literature II focuses on the development of theatre from the 16th
through 19th centuries. This class is Writing Intensive. Learning They will
also apply research to creative practice.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Shakespeare Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will identify and describe events, practitioners, practices,
theatre architecture and signiﬁcant plays within their historical context
THTR 366   Theatre History and Literature III   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THTR 203   
Theatre History and Literature is a part of a four-course sequence that
examines works of dramatic literature in their historical context. Theatre
History and Literature III focuses on the development of theatre from the
19th through mid-20th centuries. This class is writing intensive. Learning
They will also apply research to creative practice.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will identify and describe events, practitioners, practices,
theatre architecture and signiﬁcant plays within their historical contextTHTR 367   Theatre History and Literature IV   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THTR 203   
Theatre History and Literature is a four-course sequence that examines
works of dramatic literature in their historical context. Theatre History
and Literature IV focuses on contemporary and post-modern theatre.
Learning They will also apply research to creative practice.
Outcomes:
Students will identify and describe events, practitioners, practices,
theatre architecture and signiﬁcant plays within their historical context
THTR 368   Acting Theories and Techniques III   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course continues the work of THTR 267, based on the needs of the
students, using plays by modern and contemporary playwrights as the
primary material.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of how to
interpret and effectively perform plays written since the early 19th
century up to present day
THTR 369   Acting Theories and Techniques IV   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THTR 267   
This course continues the work of THTR 368 based on the needs of the
students. Performance material is at discretion of the instructor.
Outcomes:
Students will further develop performance skills and workshop areas of
weakness based on individual needs and interests
THTR 371   Stage Design I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THTR 252   
This course introduces the student to the role of the scenic designer
and the process of script analysis, period research and graphic
communication utilized to develop a scenic design with a focus on how
collaborative interaction may inform those choices.
Outcomes:
The student will develop a systematic approach to the scenic designer's
creative process and demonstrate the ability to communicate a scenic
idea through the practice of sketches, ground plans and scale models
THTR 372   Stage Design II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THTR 371   
This is an advanced course in the development of the scenic designer's
creative process, skills, and techniques.
Outcomes:
Student will further develop the skills required of a scenic designer and
develop a diverse design portfolio
THTR 375   Play Direction: Theater Capstone   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THTR 203, 252, 266, 267, 364, 365, 366 and 367, or 375 may
be taken concurrently with THTR 367   
This course explores the fundamental principles of play direction.
Students are required to direct a monologue, select a play script for
production, develop a production concept, stage a ﬁfteen-minute scene,
and develop a detailed Director's Notebook.
Outcomes:
Students acquire the skills to identify the basic elements of stage
direction; analyze a play script from the point of view of the director;
articulate and defend a production concept; develop actor-coaching
skills; and identify elements of direction that communicate story, theme,
and concept

--- Page 410 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 441
THTR 376   Advanced Play Direction   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THTR 375   
This intensive lecture-performance course will expand on principles and
practices of play direction covered in THTR 375, with particular emphasis
on staging, spatial dynamics, and collaboration with design artists.
Outcomes:
Students acquire the skills to place current trends in Directing in
historical and theoretical context; articulate a personal artistic mission
in relation to the Directing craft; articulate and defend a concept
for production; and translate conflict, story, and theme to practical
application in ground-plans, staging, actor-coaching, and design choices
THTR 377   Audition Seminar   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THTR 368   
This course focuses on preparing to audition for professional theatre,
commercial and ﬁlm with particular emphasis on audition for Chicago
Theatre.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate the ability to engage an auditor through
an audition, demonstrate the ability to score and read copy truthfully,
develop a head shot and resume and develop a personal repertoire of
suitable audition pieces
THTR 393   Shakespeare Seminar   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENGL 326, THTR 365, and 9 credit hours for electives in the
minor   
This course provides a capstone seminar experience for students,
focusing on how Shakespeare has been interpreted on the page and the
stage. It will culminate with a thesis project, either scholarly or creative,
that will serve as the capstone for the Shakespeare Studies Minor.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Shakespeare Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will engage in advanced scholarly work in Shakespearean
Studies towards development of a scholarly thesis or signiﬁcant project
THTR 394   Internship in Theatre   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
Theatre students complete a semester long internship providing an
opportunity to use their technical, research or organizations skills in
a professional setting. Students must complete and reflect upon 50
hours of internship experience per credit hour that is pre-approved by
the Department of Fine and Performing Arts. Department Permission
Required. No more than 6 credit hours of Internship of Fieldwork may be
applied to the major.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students gain professional experience working at a theatrical
organization while reflecting on their work experience and applying
theories and techniques acquired from their theatre courses
THTR 395   Seminar in Theatre   (3 Credit Hours)   
Subject and requirements of this course will be determined by needs and
interests of the students.
Outcomes:
To be determined by the instructor in consultation with the chairperson
THTR 396   Seminar in Theatre II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Subject and requirements to be determined by needs and interests of the
students.
Outcomes:
To be determined by the instructor in consultation with the chairpersonTHTR 397   Fieldwork in Chicago - Theatre   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
Variable credit (1-6 hours) given for performances or projects undertaken
with professional theatre organizations outside the university. Students
keep a journal and write evaluative papers. Permission of the Department
of Fine and Performing Arts Required. Repeatable for up to 6 credit hours,
however no more than 6 credit hours of Internship or Fieldwork can be
applied towards the major.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Speciﬁc outcomes and credit hours assigned to be determined by the
student in consultation with the Director of Theatre and the project
supervisor
THTR 399   Independent Study   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  written permission of chairperson   
Independent study projects may be of various kinds and in any
recognized area of the theatre arts. Such projects should be done under
the close supervision of a theatre faculty member.
Outcomes:
To be determined by the student in consultation with the chairperson and
theatre faculty supervisor
Art History (BA)
The art history major is designed to ensure that students are well versed
in both the historical and critical facets of the ﬁeld through a sequence
of courses  (p. 442) that explores art objects from a variety of cultures
across time. Courses emphasize visual, verbal, writing, and critical
thinking skills, giving students the tools to form persuasive arguments
based on evidence found in tangible objects, original documents, and
scholarly literature.
The skills developed in the art history program prepare students for
graduate programs and for a broad variety of careers.
Related Programs
Major
•Drawing, Painting and Printmaking (BA)  (p. 446)
Minor
•Art History Minor  (p. 443)
•Studio Art Minor  (p. 465)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Foundation CoursesFNAR 199Art and Visual Culture3
FNAR 200 Global Art History: Prehistoric to 600 CE 3FNAR 201Global Art History: 600-1800CE3
FNAR 202 Global Art History: Modern Art 3Studio Art Courses3
Select one of the following:FNAR 113Drawing IFNAR 114 Painting IFNAR 120Ceramics: HandbuildingFNAR 121 Ceramics: WheelthrowingFNAR 124Sculpture FoundationsArea Studies

--- Page 411 ---
442  Art History (BA)Early Modern Art3
Select one of the following:FNAR 338Medieval ArtFNAR 343 Baroque ArtFNAR 344Early Italian Renaissance ArtFNAR 349 Art and the Catholic TraditionFNAR 345Italian High Renaissance and Mannerist ArtFNAR 360 Picturing Women in Renaissance and Baroque ArtNon-Western Art6
Select two of the following:FNAR 351Latin American Art I: Ancient to 19th CenturyFNAR 352 Islam and Visual CultureFNAR 355Art of AfricaFNAR 357 South Asian Visual CultureFNAR 358Chinese Art and CultureFNAR 359 Japanese Art and CultureModern Art and Western Traditions3
Select one of the following:FNAR 207Women, Art, and SocietyFNAR 304 Paris in the Nineteenth CenturyFNAR 305American Art to 1945FNAR 306 Contemporary Art 1945-PresentFNAR 365History of PhotographyArt History Choices: Three Additional Courses 9Can be any course already listed in Area Study and...FNAR 207 Women, Art, and SocietyFNAR 304Paris in the Nineteenth CenturyFNAR 305 American Art to 1945FNAR 365History of PhotographySeminarFNAR 390Art History: Methods and Research3
Senior ThesisFNAR 391Senior Thesis in Art History3Total Hours42
Suggested Course Sequence
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
FallFNAR 200Global Art History: Prehistoric to 600 CE3 Hours3
SpringFNAR 199Art and Visual Culture3 Hours3
Year 2
Fall
FNAR 201 Global Art History: 600-1800CE 3FNAR Studio Art3 Hours6
SpringFNAR 202Global Art History: Modern Art3FNAR Area Studies3 Hours6
Year 3
Fall
FNAR Area Studies (Non-Western) 3FNAR Area Studies3 Hours6
SpringFNAR Area Studies3FNAR Area Studies (Non-Western)3 Hours6
Year 4
Fall
FNAR 390 Art History: Methods and Research 3FNAR Area Studies3 Hours6
SpringFNAR 391Senior Thesis in Art History3FNAR Area Studies3 Hours6 Total Hours42
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this program, students will be able to:
•Demonstrate an understanding of human creativity and the role of the
visual arts as a mode of visual communication in a global context
•Employ the elements of visual language and artistic terminology to
critically analyze and interpret objects of art, architecture, and visual
culture
•Demonstrate general knowledge and understanding of Western and
non-Western art traditions across historical periods in terms of major
monuments, artists, ideas, formal expression, themes, techniques,

--- Page 412 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 443
iconography, and functions of art in relation to their cultural, social,
religious, and historical contexts
•Demonstrate depth of knowledge and understanding of speciﬁc
historical periods or civilizations in the history of art
•Demonstrate an understanding of visual culture as it relates to issues
of gender, class, race, religion
•Demonstrate knowledge of and an ability to apply art historical
methodologies, criticism, and theory in art history research
•Demonstrate skills in critical thinking, conceptualization of self-
developed projects, scholarly research techniques, and written and
oral communication
•Demonstrate an understanding of the interdisciplinary nature of art
history
Art History Minor
The Art History minor is often added as a secondary focus of study in
order to complement or enhance a student's major or chosen career path.
Students may also choose to add the minor in order to pursue an area of
interest without the responsibility of a major.
While the major  (p. 441) is a comprehensive course of study, the minor
in Art History is intended to provide a breadth of knowledge. Art history
minors develop a base-level understanding of the ﬁeld, from the arts of
the ancient world to contemporary art.
Related Programs
Major
•Art History (BA)  (p. 441)
•Drawing, Painting and Printmaking (BA)  (p. 446)
Minor
•Studio Art Minor  (p. 465)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Foundation CoursesFNAR 200Global Art History: Prehistoric to 600 CE3
FNAR 201 Global Art History: 600-1800CE 3FNAR 202Global Art History: Modern Art3
Select one of the following: 3FNAR 305American Art to 1945FNAR 306 Contemporary Art 1945-PresentFNAR 338Medieval ArtFNAR 344 Early Italian Renaissance ArtFNAR 345Italian High Renaissance and Mannerist ArtFNAR 343 Baroque ArtFNAR 360 /
WSGS 360Picturing Women in Renaissance and Baroque ArtFNAR 304 Paris in the Nineteenth CenturyFNAR 349Art and the Catholic TraditionSelect one of the following: 3FNAR 351Latin American Art I: Ancient to 19th CenturyFNAR 353 Latin American Art II: Modern to ContemporaryFNAR 355Art of AfricaFNAR 356 India, Women and Visual CultureFNAR 357South Asian Visual CultureFNAR 358 Chinese Art and CultureFNAR 359Japanese Art and CultureFNAR 352 Islam and Visual CultureSelect one additional course from either of the two categories above,
or from the courses listed below:3
FNAR 203 Chicago: Face of a CityFNAR 207Women, Art, and SocietyFNAR 342 Art in Rome (Rome Center only)FNAR 365History of PhotographyFNAR 394 Topics in Art HistoryFNAR 390Art History: Methods and ResearchTotal Hours18
Suggested Sequence of Courses
Course Title Hours
Freshman
FallFNAR 200Global Art History: Prehistoric to 600 CE3 Hours3
Sophomore
FallFNAR 201Global Art History: 600-1800CE3 Hours3
SpringFNAR 202Global Art History: Modern Art3 Hours3
Junior
Fall
Select one of the following: 3Required Choice: Western Traditions 
FNAR 304 Paris in the Nineteenth Century  FNAR 305American Art to 1945 
FNAR 306 Contemporary Art 1945-Present  FNAR 338Medieval Art 
FNAR 343 Baroque Art  FNAR 344Early Italian Renaissance Art 
FNAR 345 Italian High Renaissance and Mannerist Art  FNAR 349Art and the Catholic Tradition FNAR 360Picturing Women in Renaissance and
Baroque Art  Hours3
Spring
Select one of the following: 3Required Choice: Non-Western Traditions 
FNAR 351 Latin American Art I: Ancient to 19th
Century FNAR 352Islam and Visual Culture 
FNAR 353 Latin American Art II: Modern to
Contemporary FNAR 355Art of Africa 
FNAR 356 India, Women and Visual Culture  FNAR 357South Asian Visual Culture 

--- Page 413 ---
444  Dance (BA)
FNAR 358 Chinese Art and Culture  FNAR 359Japanese Art and Culture  Hours3
Senior
FallSelect one of the following:3
FNAR 203 Chicago: Face of a City  FNAR 207Women, Art, and Society 
CLST 206 Art of Ancient Greece  CLST 207Art of the Roman World 
FNAR 342 Art in Rome  FNAR 365History of Photography 
FNAR 390 Art History: Methods and Research  FNAR 394Topics in Art History  Hours3 Total Hours18
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Demonstrate an understanding of human creativity and the role of the
visual arts as a mode of visual communication in a global context
•Employ the elements of visual language and artistic terminology to
critically analyze and interpret objects of art, architecture, and visual
culture
•Demonstrate general knowledge and understanding of Western and
non-Western art traditions across historical periods in terms of major
monuments, artists, ideas, formal expression, themes, techniques,
iconography, and functions of art in relation to their cultural, social,
religious, and historical contexts.
Dance (BA)
The Bachelor of Arts in Dance offers diverse rigorous dance training
within the context of Loyola’s Ignatian liberal arts curriculum in the
service of social justice.  The  dance curriculum  (p. 444) features
classical, contemporary and global forms which contextualize and enrich
current and emerging approaches to dance creation, dance research and
performance.Related Programs
Major
•Music (BA)  (p. 449)
Minor
•Dance Minor  (p. 446)
•Musical Theatre Minor  (p. 456)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Foundation CoursesTHTR 321CPracticum: Costumes2or THTR 321EPracticum: Electrics
DANC 250 Historical Contexts in Contemporary Dance
Practice3DANC 270Dance Kinesiology3
Applied CoursesDANC 341Ballet IV: Anatomical Foundations and Cultural
Context (repeat 4 times)1
DANC 343 Ballet V: Advancing Ballet: Contemporary
Methodologies in Applied Ballet (repeat 4 times)1DANC 312Pointe I: Theory and Techniques (repeat 2 times)1or DANC 314Pointe II: Continuing Pointework
DANC 232 Jazz Dance II: Theories and Techniques 2
or DANC 331 Jazz Dance III: Intermediate Jazz Dance Theories and
TechniquesDANC 224Majors Modern II (repeat 2 times)1
DANC 324 Modern III: Theory and Techniques (repeat 2 times) 1DANC 275Global Influences on Contemporary Dance Practice2
Electives Select from the Following 4DANC 260Topics in DanceDANC 261 Topics in Applied DanceDANC 398Research in DanceDANC 395 Independent StudyDANC 280Dance & Disability: Interdisciplinary Theory &
Applied Movement PracticesDANC 397 Fieldwork in Chicago - DanceAny DANC course beyond degree requirementsSynthesisDANC 323Rehearsal and Performance (repeat 2 times)1
DANC 360 Dance Pedagogy 3DANC 370Dance Composition3
DANC 394 Internship in Dance 1DANC 380Senior Showcase Capstone1Total Hours40
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.

--- Page 414 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 445
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
DANC 341 Ballet IV: Anatomical Foundations and
Cultural Context1DANC 224Majors Modern II1
DANC 312 
or DANC 314Pointe I: Theory and Techniques 
or Pointe II: Continuing Pointework1THTR 321CPracticum: Costumes 12DANC 323Rehearsal and Performance 11 Hours6
Spring
DANC 341 Ballet IV: Anatomical Foundations and
Cultural Context1DANC 312 
or DANC 314Pointe I: Theory and Techniques 
or Pointe II: Continuing Pointework1
DANC 224 Majors Modern II 1DANC 250Historical Contexts in Contemporary Dance
Practice3 Hours6
Year 2
FallDANC 341Ballet IV: Anatomical Foundations and
Cultural Context1
DANC 312 
or DANC 314Pointe I: Theory and Techniques 1 
or Pointe II: Continuing Pointework1DANC 324Modern III: Theory and Techniques1
DANC 270 Dance Kinesiology 3DANC 275Global Influences on Contemporary Dance
Practice 12DANC 323Rehearsal and Performance 11 Hours9
Spring
DANC 341 Ballet IV: Anatomical Foundations and
Cultural Context1DANC 312 
or DANC 314Pointe I: Theory and Techniques 1 
or Pointe II: Continuing Pointework1
DANC 324 Modern III: Theory and Techniques 1DANC Elective1 Hours4
Year 3
FallDANC 343Ballet V: Advancing Ballet: Contemporary
Methodologies in Applied Ballet1
DANC 312 
or DANC 314Pointe I: Theory and Techniques 1 
or Pointe II: Continuing Pointework1DANC 324Modern III: Theory and Techniques1DANC 323Rehearsal and Performance1 Hours4
Spring
DANC 343 Ballet V: Advancing Ballet: Contemporary
Methodologies in Applied Ballet1DANC 331Jazz Dance III: Intermediate Jazz Dance
Theories and Techniques 12DANC 324 Modern III: Theory and Techniques 1DANC 370Dance Composition3DANC Elective1 Hours8
Year 4
Fall
DANC 343 Ballet V: Advancing Ballet: Contemporary
Methodologies in Applied Ballet1DANC 312 
or DANC 314Pointe I: Theory and Techniques 1 
or Pointe II: Continuing Pointework1
DANC 324 Modern III: Theory and Techniques 1DANC 360Dance Pedagogy3
DANC 323 Rehearsal and Performance 1DANC 394Internship in Dance1 Hours8
SpringDANC 343Ballet V: Advancing Ballet: Contemporary
Methodologies in Applied Ballet1
DANC 324 Modern III: Theory and Techniques 1DANC 380Senior Showcase Capstone1DANC Elective  Hours3 Total Hours48
1Course can be taken in any semester that it appears in depending on
student's preference and course schedule.
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Demonstrate an understanding of choreographic processes, aesthetic
properties of style, and the ways these shape and are shaped by
artistic and cultural ideas and contexts
•Apply and synthesize performance experience with a wide selection
of dance repertory, the principal eras, genres, and cultural sources.
•Employ fundamental knowledge of the body/embodiment and
of kinesiology as applicable to work in dance.  Critically evaluate
classroom technique, injury prevention, wellness, and personal
development.

--- Page 415 ---
446  Dance Minor
•Apply the ability to think, speak, and write clearly and effectively, and
to communicate with precision, cogency, and rhetorical effectiveness,
with the understanding that sharing our work in multiple contexts
allows us to engage with the world on topics of academic and social
relevance.
•Demonstrate the ability to develop and defend critical evaluations
through creative inquiry and to respect, understand, and evaluate
work in a variety of disciplines and  scholarly, artistic, and
pedagogical endeavors.
•Convey general knowledge of business and professional practices as
they relate to the ﬁeld of dance, recognizing that collaboration and
interconnection are central to the growth and strengthening of our
ﬁeld.
•Demonstrate an understanding of, and experience in thinking about,
moral and ethical problems.  Cultivate empathy within roles as
scholars and artists.
Dance Minor
For students looking to deepen their knowledge and experience in Dance
while studying at Loyola University Chicago, the Dance minor offers a
flexible framework for students to pursue excellence artistically and
academically.
Related Programs
Major
•Dance (BA)  (p. 444)
•Music (BA)  (p. 449)
Minor
•Musical Theatre Minor  (p. 456)
Curriculum
A total of 18 credits are required to complete the dance minor.
Code Title Hours
FoundationsSelect six credit hours from the following:6
DANC 250 Historical Contexts in Contemporary Dance
Practice 1DANC 260Topics in DanceDANC 270 Dance Kinesiology 1DANC 280Dance & Disability: Interdisciplinary Theory &
Applied Movement PracticesDANC 360 Dance PedagogyDANC 370Dance Composition 1DANC 394 Internship in DanceDANC 395Independent StudyDANC 397 Fieldwork in Chicago - DanceDANC 398Research in DanceMUSC or THTR ElectiveStudio TechniquesSelect twelve credit hours of any level from the following: 12DANC 111Ballet I: Introduction to Ballet Theory and
TechniqueDANC 121 Modern Dance I: Theories and TechniquesDANC 131Jazz Dance I: Theories and TechniquesDANC 212 Ballet Dance II: Theory and TechniqueDANC 213Ballet III: Advanced Continuing BalletDANC 222 Modern Dance II: Theory and TechniqueDANC 232Jazz Dance II: Theories and TechniquesDANC 261 Topics in Applied DanceDANC 275Global Influences on Contemporary Dance PracticeDANC 312 Pointe I: Theory and TechniquesDANC 314Pointe II: Continuing PointeworkDANC 324 Modern III: Theory and TechniquesDANC 331Jazz Dance III: Intermediate Jazz Dance Theories
and TechniquesDANC 341 Ballet IV: Anatomical Foundations and Cultural
ContextDANC 343Ballet V: Advancing Ballet: Contemporary
Methodologies in Applied BalletTotal Hours18
1Indicates that a student must be a declared DANC major or minor to
enroll
Students interested in receiving a dance minor should make an
appointment with Dance Minor Advisor  Mari Jo Barker  (mirbe@luc.edu ).
Transfer-Student Residency Requirement
At least 9 credit hours of the dance minor must be completed at Loyola.
Learning Outcomes
•Increase psychomotor, cognitive and affective skills through the
practice of dance
•Demonstrate foundational knowledge of dance theory and
performance
•Employ fundamental knowledge of the body/embodiment and
of kinesiology as applicable to work in dance. Critically evaluate
classroom technique, injury prevention, wellness, and personal
development
•Synthesize and apply coursework by preparing for and presenting
public performance
•Engage with peers in co-curricular Dance minor piece for Dance
Informance and in extra-curricular student dance organizations
Drawing, Painting and Printmaking
(BA)
The Drawing, Painting & Printmaking Major at Loyola University Chicago
is focused on the subject as an artistic discipline with a rich global
history, encompassing many diverse perspectives and approaches, which
explores the relationship of traditional practices to recent advances in
technology. The curriculum guides students in learning the technical
foundations, aesthetic strategies and conceptual approaches, and the
cultural / historical perspectives of the medium. Through the program,
students build their ability to pursue Drawing, Painting and Printmaking
as a means of creative exploration and intellectual investigation.

--- Page 416 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 447
Related Programs
Major
•Art History (BA)  (p. 441)
•Photography and Video Art (BA)  (p. 459)
Minor
•Drawing, Painting and Printmaking Minor  (p. 448)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Foundation CoursesFNAR 110Foundations of Visual Art3
FNAR 113 Drawing I 3Art History CoursesFNAR 201 Global Art History: 600-1800CE 3FNAR 202Global Art History: Modern Art3
Applied CoursesFNAR 114Painting I3
FNAR 115 Foundations of Photography 3FNAR 118Printmaking I3
FNAR 213 Drawing II (Fall) 3FNAR 214Painting II (Spring)3
FNAR 311 Advanced Studio (Fall) 3FNAR 120Ceramics: Handbuilding3or FNAR 124Sculpture Foundations
FNAR 190 Color Theory 3
or FNAR 233 Digital Media DesignSynthesisFNAR 388 Critical Approaches to Visual Art 3FNAR 398Fine Arts Capstone3
ElectivesFNAR 218Printmaking II3or FNAR 368Fine Arts InternshipTotal Hours45
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
FNAR 110 Foundations of Visual Art 3FNAR 113Drawing I3 Hours6
SpringFNAR 114Painting I3FNAR 201Global Art History: 600-1800CE3 Hours6Year 2
Fall
FNAR 213 Drawing II 3FNAR 202Global Art History: Modern Art3 Hours6
SpringFNAR 214Painting II3FNAR 118Printmaking I3 Hours6
Year 3
Fall
FNAR 115 Foundations of Photography 3FNAR 190 
or FNAR 233Color Theory 
or Digital Media Design3 Hours6
SpringFNAR 120 
or FNAR 124Ceramics: Handbuilding 
or Sculpture Foundations3FNAR 218 
or FNAR 368Printmaking II 1 
or Fine Arts Internship3 Hours6
Year 4
Fall
FNAR 311 Advanced Studio 3FNAR 388Critical Approaches to Visual Art3 Hours6
SpringFNAR 398Fine Arts Capstone3 Hours3 Total Hours45
1We recommend students take their studio art elective during junior or
senior year.
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Understand the place of artmaking in human creativity within a global
historical context

--- Page 417 ---
448  Drawing, Painting and Printmaking Minor
•Differentiate between artistic styles, and the multiplicity of
populations and communities from which works of have been made
(and are made)
•Engage in critical discussion with a depth of analysis and
appreciation for aesthetic and conceptual diversity
Drawing, Painting and Printmaking
Minor
The minor in Drawing, Painting & Printmaking is often added as a
secondary focus of study in order to complement or enhance a student's
major or chosen career path. Students may also choose to add the minor
in order to pursue an area of interest without the responsibility of a major
(p. 446).
The minor embodies many of the key historical, critical, theoretical,
methodological and contextual elements embedded within the more
comprehensive framework of the major.
Related Programs
Major
•Drawing, Painting and Printmaking (BA)  (p. 446)
Minor
•Art History Minor  (p. 443)
•Photography and Video Art Minor  (p. 460)
Curriculum
A total of 18 credit hours are required for the minor in Drawing and
Painting.
Code Title Hours
Foundation CoursesFNAR 110Foundations of Visual Art3or FNAR 113Drawing I
Applied CoursesFNAR 114Painting I3
FNAR 311 Advanced Studio 3Select two of the following:6
FNAR 118 Printmaking IFNAR 213Drawing IIFNAR 214 Painting II (Spring)History CoursesSelect one of the following: 3FNAR 200Global Art History: Prehistoric to 600 CEFNAR 201 Global Art History: 600-1800CEFNAR 202Global Art History: Modern ArtFNAR 207 Women, Art, and SocietyFNAR 304Paris in the Nineteenth CenturyFNAR 305 American Art to 1945FNAR 306Contemporary Art 1945-PresentFNAR 338 Medieval ArtFNAR 343Baroque ArtFNAR 344 Early Italian Renaissance ArtFNAR 345Italian High Renaissance and Mannerist ArtFNAR 349 Art and the Catholic TraditionFNAR 351Latin American Art I: Ancient to 19th CenturyFNAR 352 Islam and Visual CultureFNAR 353Latin American Art II: Modern to ContemporaryFNAR 355 Art of AfricaFNAR 356India, Women and Visual CultureFNAR 357 South Asian Visual CultureFNAR 358Chinese Art and CultureFNAR 359 Japanese Art and CultureFNAR 360Picturing Women in Renaissance and Baroque ArtFNAR 365History of PhotographyTotal Hours18
Suggested Sequence of Courses 
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Freshman
FallFNAR 113Drawing I3 Hours3
SpringFNAR 114Painting I3 Hours3
Sophomore
FallFNAR 213Drawing II3 Hours3
Spring
Select one of the following: 3FNAR 200Global Art History: Prehistoric to 600 CE 
FNAR 201 Global Art History: 600-1800CE  FNAR 202Global Art History: Modern Art 
FNAR 207 Women, Art, and Society  FNAR 304Paris in the Nineteenth Century 
FNAR 305 American Art to 1945  FNAR 306Contemporary Art 1945-Present 
FNAR 338 Medieval Art  FNAR 343Baroque Art 
FNAR 344 Early Italian Renaissance Art  FNAR 345Italian High Renaissance and Mannerist Art 
FNAR 349 Art and the Catholic Tradition  FNAR 351Latin American Art I: Ancient to 19th
Century 
FNAR 352 Islam and Visual Culture  FNAR 353Latin American Art II: Modern to
Contemporary 
FNAR 355 Art of Africa  FNAR 356India, Women and Visual Culture 
FNAR 357 South Asian Visual Culture  

--- Page 418 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 449FNAR 358Chinese Art and Culture 
FNAR 359 Japanese Art and Culture  FNAR 360Picturing Women in Renaissance and
Baroque Art FNAR 365History of Photography  Hours3
Junior
Spring
Select one of the following:  FNAR 118 
or FNAR 214Printmaking I 
or Painting II3 Hours3
Senior
FallFNAR 311Advanced Studio3 Hours3 Total Hours18
Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this program, students will be able to:
•Apply a range of materials, processes and techniques within their
chosen concentration as a primary form of artistic expression
•Analyze interpret and comprehend the elements that constitute a
work of art (visual, functional, psychological, and social)
•Engage in self-directed problem solving analysis and critical thinking,
and take creative and intellectual risks in the production of original
artwork
•Employ scholarly and visual research in developing concepts,
principles, and theories that underlie their artistic intentions, and
effectively communicate them orally and in written form
Music (BA)
The Loyola University music program invites students of all backgrounds
to engage in a vast array of performance and coursework opportunities.
Located in one of the world's most vibrant musical centers, and  featuring
a highly dedicated and award-winning faculty, Music at Loyola provides
the rigorous training necessary for those intent on pursuing a career in
music, while offering a welcoming environment for non-majors seeking to
enhance their collegiate experience.
Related Programs
Major
•Music with a Concentration in Jazz Studies (BA)  (p. 452)
•Music with a Concentration in Vocal Performance (BA)  (p. 454)
Minor
•Music Minor  (p. 450)
Curriculum
A total of 42 credits are required to receive a B.A. in Music.
Code Title Hours
Music Theory and MusicianshipMUSC 144Music Theory I 1,2,33MUSC 145 Musicianship Lab I 11MUSC 244Music Theory II 1,33
MUSC 245 Musicianship Lab II 11MUSC 344Music Theory III3
Music HistoryMUSC 353Music History II (Required)3
Select one of the following:  43MUSC 252Music History IMUSC 256 Jazz Music HistoryMUSC 354Music History IIIApplied MusicSelect six (6) credits of Applied Music Lessons  (p. 450) 56
EnsemblesSelect six credits from the following:6
MUSC 105 Symphony OrchestraMUSC 107ChorusMUSC 108 Liturgical Choir: CantorumMUSC 109Jazz EnsembleMUSC 110 Wind EnsembleMUSC 111Percussion EnsembleMUSC 207 Chamber ChoirMUSC 289Chamber EnsembleMUSC 290 Jazz ComboSenior Capstone ExperienceSelect one of the following:  61MUSC 387Solo Recital: MUSC CapstoneMUSC 388 Lecture/Recital: MUSC CapstoneGeneral Music ChoiceSelect twelve credits from the following:  712MUSC 122Introduction to Digital MusicMUSC 185 Jazz ImprovisationMUSC 201Music Technology IMUSC 246 Composition IMUSC 247Composition IIMUSC 248 Jazz Composition and ArrangingMUSC 252Music History IMUSC 255 Music in Catholic WorshipMUSC 256Jazz Music HistoryMUSC 260 ConductingMUSC 345Music Theory IVMUSC 354 Music History IIIMUSC 363Foundations of Vocal Technique and PedagogyMUSC 364 Vocal RepertoireMUSC 365Vocal Performance WorkshopMUSC 370 The Business of MusicMUSC 374Musical Theatre RepertoireMUSC 385 Jazz Improvisation IIMUSC 389Topics in MusicMUSC 394Internship in MusicTotal Hours42
1Must be taken concurrently.

--- Page 419 ---
450  Music Minor
2Students receiving a 3 or 4 on the AP Music Theory Exam are eligible to
receive credit for MUSC 144 Music Theory I .
3Students receiving a 5 are eligible to receive credit for MUSC 144 Music
Theory I  and MUSC 244 Music Theory II .
4Any of the other Music History courses may be used as electives.
5It is preferred that students complete Applied Music credits on the
same instrument, though multiple instruments are approved on a case-
by-case basis.
6It is the expectation of the music faculty that all students wi ll enroll in
MUSC 387  unless otherwise approved by the Director of Music.
7With the exception of MUSC 101 Music: Art of Listening , MUSC 102
Class Piano for Beginners , MUSC 103 Class Guitar for Beginners , or
MUSC 142 Class Voice for Beginners , students may choose from any 3
credit hour MUSC course that has not already been taken (see General
Music Choice list), or use any combination of 1 credit hour MUSC
courses such as Ensembles or Applied Music.
Applied Music Lessons
Code Title Hours
MUSC 280A Applied Music: Clarinet 1MUSC 280AAApplied Music: Conducting1
MUSC 280B Applied Music: Percussion 1MUSC 280BBApplied Music: Improvisation1
MUSC 280C Applied Music: Oboe 1MUSC 280EApplied Music: Trumpet1
MUSC 280F Applied Music: Saxophone 1MUSC 280GApplied Music: Guitar1
MUSC 280I Applied Music: Organ 1MUSC 280JApplied Music: Piano1
MUSC 280K Applied Music: Voice 1MUSC 280LApplied Music: Violin1
MUSC 280M Applied Music: Flute 1MUSC 280NApplied Music: Cello1
MUSC 280O Applied Music: Double Bass 1MUSC 280PApplied Music: Viola1
MUSC 280Q Applied Music: Horn 1MUSC 280RApplied Music: Trombone1
MUSC 280S Applied Music: Harp 1MUSC 280UApplied Music: Drum Set1
MUSC 280V Applied Music: Tuba 1MUSC 280YApplied Music: Bassoon1
MUSC 280Z Applied Music: Composition 1
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts arenot required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this program, students will demonstrate:
•a thorough understanding of the basic elements related to music
theory: rhythm, melody, and harmony. 
•an understanding of musical forms, processes, and structures;
and the ability to employ this understanding in written and verbal
analyses. 
•proﬁciency in the basic areas of musicianship: keyboard, aural skills,
and sight-singing. 
•a basic knowledge of music history resulting, in part, from score
analysis, dedicated listening, and concert attendance.
•the ability to apply critical thinking towards music and its
contextualization. 
•the technical skills requisite for artistic self-expression.
•the knowledge and skills necessary to work collaboratively as part of
a musical ensemble. 
•the development of metacognitive skills. 
•a working knowledge of the artistic considerations necessary to
produce and perform a solo recital (capstone project)
Music Minor
The Music Minor cultivates foundational knowledge in music theory,
history, and literature, while affording students the opportunity to work
with a world-class faculty in an array of applied and performance classes.
While many students pursue the Music Minor simply to continue a
lifelong passion, others ﬁnd it to be a great complement to their major
course of study, especially when their desired career path intersects with
music, or the arts in general (e.g. Music Business, Arts Administration,
Music Therapy, or Digital Music).
Related Programs
Major
•Music (BA)  (p. 449)
•Music with a Concentration in Vocal Performance (BA)  (p. 454)
Minor
•Musical Theatre Minor  (p. 456)
Curriculum
A total of 21 credits are required to complete the Music Minor.
Code Title Hours
Music TheoryMUSC 144Music Theory I 1,2,33
MUSC 145 Musicianship Lab I 11MUSC 244Music Theory II 1,33
MUSC 245 Musicianship Lab II 11Music HistorySelect one of the following: 3MUSC 252Music History I

--- Page 420 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 451
MUSC 256 Jazz Music HistoryMUSC 353Music History IIMUSC 354 Music History IIIApplied MusicSelect three (3) credits of Applied Music Lessons  (p. 451) 3EnsemblesSelect four credits from the following: 4MUSC 105Symphony OrchestraMUSC 107 ChorusMUSC 108Liturgical Choir: CantorumMUSC 109 Jazz EnsembleMUSC 110Wind EnsembleMUSC 111 Percussion EnsembleMUSC 207Chamber ChoirMUSC 289 Chamber EnsembleMUSC 290Jazz ComboElectivesSelect one of the following:3
MUSC 122 Introduction to Digital MusicMUSC 185Jazz ImprovisationMUSC 201 Music Technology IMUSC 246Composition IMUSC 247 Composition IIMUSC 248Jazz Composition and ArrangingMUSC 252 Music History I 4MUSC 255Music in Catholic WorshipMUSC 256 Jazz Music History 4MUSC 260ConductingMUSC 333 Music and Ritual in Catholic Liturgical LifeMUSC 353Music History II 4MUSC 354 Music History III 4MUSC 363Foundations of Vocal Technique and PedagogyMUSC 364 Vocal RepertoireMUSC 365Vocal Performance WorkshopMUSC 374 Musical Theatre RepertoireMUSC 385Jazz Improvisation IIMUSC 389Topics in MusicTotal Hours21
1Must be taken concurrently.
2Students receiving a 3 or 4 on the AP Music Theory Exam are eligible to
receive credit for MUSC 144 Music Theory I .
3Students receiving a 5 are eligible to receive credit for MUSC 144 Music
Theory I  and MUSC 244 Music Theory II .
4If not used for Music History Requirement.
Applied Music Lessons
Code Title Hours
MUSC 280A Applied Music: Clarinet 1MUSC 280AAApplied Music: Conducting1
MUSC 280B Applied Music: Percussion 1MUSC 280BBApplied Music: Improvisation1
MUSC 280C Applied Music: Oboe 1MUSC 280EApplied Music: Trumpet1
MUSC 280F Applied Music: Saxophone 1MUSC 280GApplied Music: Guitar1
MUSC 280I Applied Music: Organ 1MUSC 280JApplied Music: Piano1
MUSC 280K Applied Music: Voice 1MUSC 280LApplied Music: Violin1
MUSC 280M Applied Music: Flute 1MUSC 280NApplied Music: Cello1
MUSC 280O Applied Music: Double Bass 1MUSC 280PApplied Music: Viola1
MUSC 280Q Applied Music: Horn 1MUSC 280RApplied Music: Trombone1
MUSC 280S Applied Music: Harp 1MUSC 280UApplied Music: Drum Set1
MUSC 280V Applied Music: Tuba 1MUSC 280YApplied Music: Bassoon1
MUSC 280Z Applied Music: Composition 1MUSC 380AApplied Music Advanced: Clarinet1
MUSC 380AA Applied Music Advanced: Conducting 1MUSC 380BApplied Music Advanced: Percussion1
MUSC 380BB Applied Music Advanced: Improvisation 1MUSC 380CApplied Music Advanced: Oboe1
MUSC 380E Applied Music Advanced: Trumpet 1MUSC 380FApplied Music Advanced: Saxophone1
MUSC 380G Applied Music Advanced: Guitar 1MUSC 380IApplied Music Advanced: Organ1
MUSC 380J Applied Music Advanced: Piano 1MUSC 380KApplied Music Advanced: Voice1
MUSC 380L Applied Music Advanced: Violin 1MUSC 380MApplied Music Advanced: Flute1
MUSC 380N Applied Music Advanced: Cello 1MUSC 380OApplied Music Advanced: Double Bass1
MUSC 380P Applied Music Advanced: Viola 1MUSC 380QApplied Music Advanced: Horn1
MUSC 380R Applied Music: Advanced Trombone 1MUSC 380SApplied Music Advanced: Harp1
MUSC 380U Applied Music Advanced: Drum Set 1MUSC 380VApplied Music Advanced: Tuba1
MUSC 380Y Applied Music Advanced: Bassoon 1MUSC 380ZApplied Music Advanced: Composition1
Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this program, students will demonstrate:
•a thorough understanding of the basic elements related to music
theory: rhythm, melody, and harmony.
•proﬁciency in the basic areas of musicianship: keyboard, aural skills,
and sight-singing.
•the technical skills requisite for artistic self-expression.
•the knowledge and skills necessary to work collaboratively as part of
a musical ensemble.

--- Page 421 ---
452  Music with a Concentration in Jazz Studies (BA)
Music with a Concentration in Jazz
Studies (BA)
A Major in Music with a concentration in Jazz Studies is a performance
degree that prepares students to perform jazz music. Students will take
courses in jazz improvisation, jazz music history, and jazz composition
and arranging.
Related Programs
Major
•Music (BA)  (p. 449)
•Music with a Concentration in Liturgical Music (BA)  (p. 453)
•Music with a Concentration in Vocal Performance (BA)  (p. 454)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Music TheoryMUSC 144Music Theory I 1, 2, 33
MUSC 145 Musicianship Lab I 11MUSC 244Music Theory II 1, 33
MUSC 245 Musicianship Lab II 11MUSC 344Music Theory III3
Music HistoryMUSC 256Jazz Music History3
MUSC 353 Music History II 3Applied MusicSelect six (6) credits of Applied Music Lessons  (p. 452) 46Jazz EnsembleStudents need 6 total Jazz Ensemble Credits.  56MUSC 109Jazz Ensemble (1 credit each)Senior Capstone ExperienceMUSC 387Solo Recital: MUSC Capstone1
Required Jazz Studies CoursesMUSC 185Jazz Improvisation3
MUSC 248 Jazz Composition and Arranging 3MUSC 385Jazz Improvisation II3
Electives  6MUSC 280A-Z and MUSC 380A-Z Additional Applied Lesson of
your choice. (One Each)Additional MUSC Ensemble of your choice. (One Each)Additional general 3 credits MUSC Course of your choiceTotal Hours39
1Must be taken concurrently.
2Students receiving a 3 or 4 on the AP Music Theory Exam are eligible to
receive credit for MUSC 144 Music Theory I .
3Students receiving a 5 are eligible to receive credit for MUSC 144 Music
Theory I  and MUSC 244 Music Theory II .
4It is preferred that students complete Applied Music credits on the
same instrument, though multiple instruments are approved on a case-
by-case basis.
5If necessary - and with approval from the Director of Music - students
may fulﬁll some of their Ensemble credits with MUSC 290 Jazz Combo .6Students may choose to take one three-credit class or a combination of
one-credit classes to fulﬁll the elective requirement.
Applied Music Lessons
Code Title Hours
MUSC 280A Applied Music: Clarinet 1MUSC 280AAApplied Music: Conducting1
MUSC 280B Applied Music: Percussion 1MUSC 280BBApplied Music: Improvisation1
MUSC 280C Applied Music: Oboe 1MUSC 280EApplied Music: Trumpet1
MUSC 280F Applied Music: Saxophone 1MUSC 280GApplied Music: Guitar1
MUSC 280I Applied Music: Organ 1MUSC 280JApplied Music: Piano1
MUSC 280K Applied Music: Voice 1MUSC 280LApplied Music: Violin1
MUSC 280M Applied Music: Flute 1MUSC 280NApplied Music: Cello1
MUSC 280O Applied Music: Double Bass 1MUSC 280PApplied Music: Viola1
MUSC 280Q Applied Music: Horn 1MUSC 280RApplied Music: Trombone1
MUSC 280S Applied Music: Harp 1MUSC 280UApplied Music: Drum Set1
MUSC 280V Applied Music: Tuba 1MUSC 280YApplied Music: Bassoon1
MUSC 280Z Applied Music: Composition 1MUSC 380AApplied Music Advanced: Clarinet1
MUSC 380AA Applied Music Advanced: Conducting 1MUSC 380BApplied Music Advanced: Percussion1
MUSC 380BB Applied Music Advanced: Improvisation 1MUSC 380CApplied Music Advanced: Oboe1
MUSC 380E Applied Music Advanced: Trumpet 1MUSC 380FApplied Music Advanced: Saxophone1
MUSC 380G Applied Music Advanced: Guitar 1MUSC 380IApplied Music Advanced: Organ1
MUSC 380J Applied Music Advanced: Piano 1MUSC 380KApplied Music Advanced: Voice1
MUSC 380L Applied Music Advanced: Violin 1MUSC 380MApplied Music Advanced: Flute1
MUSC 380N Applied Music Advanced: Cello 1MUSC 380OApplied Music Advanced: Double Bass1
MUSC 380P Applied Music Advanced: Viola 1MUSC 380QApplied Music Advanced: Horn1
MUSC 380R Applied Music: Advanced Trombone 1MUSC 380SApplied Music Advanced: Harp1
MUSC 380U Applied Music Advanced: Drum Set 1MUSC 380VApplied Music Advanced: Tuba1
MUSC 380Y Applied Music Advanced: Bassoon 1MUSC 380ZApplied Music Advanced: Composition1

--- Page 422 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 453
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this program, students will demonstrate:
•a thorough understanding of the basic elements related to music
theory: rhythm, melody, and harmony. 
•an understanding of musical forms, processes, and structures;
and the ability to employ this understanding in written and verbal
analyses. 
•proﬁciency in the basic areas of musicianship: keyboard, aural skills,
and sight-singing. 
•a basic knowledge of music history resulting, in part, from score
analysis, dedicated listening, and concert attendance.
•the ability to apply critical thinking towards music and its
contextualization. 
•the technical skills requisite for artistic self-expression.
•the knowledge and skills necessary to work collaboratively as part of
a musical ensemble. 
•the development of metacognitive skills. 
•a working knowledge of the artistic considerations necessary to
produce and perform a solo recital (capstone project)
Music with a Concentration in
Liturgical Music (BA)
A Major in Music with a concentration in Liturgical Music prepares
students to work as church music directors. This concentration
provides students the experience of working with pastors, choirs and
congregations, building their skills and talents as future musicians and
directors.
Conducting a choir or a congregation requires verbal and non-verbal
communication skills, musical and liturgical knowledge, and a generosity
of spirit—things that aid in leading and engaging others in worship. 
This major, while concentrating in the Roman Catholic tradition, will also
prepare students for work in other Christian denominations, mainline
Protestant and Orthodox, as they will study these different liturgical
traditions, as well as their works of sacred music.
Building upon the solid curricular foundation already established in
the Music program, this new major combines the study of sacred textand song, imagery, melody and rhythm. It is inherently a portrayal of
interdisciplinary drawing from both the disciplines of theology and music.
Related Programs
Major
•Music (BA)  (p. 449)
•Music with a Concentration in Vocal Performance (BA)  (p. 454)
Minor
•Music Minor  (p. 450)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Music TheoryMUSC 144Music Theory I 1, 2, 33
MUSC 145 Musicianship Lab I 11MUSC 244Music Theory II 1, 33
MUSC 245 Musicianship Lab II 11MUSC 344Music Theory III3
Music HistoryMUSC 252Music History I3
MUSC 353 Music History II 3Applied MusicSelect six (6) credits of Applied Music Lessons  (p. 454) 46EnsemblesStudents need six total Ensemble Credits:  56MUSC 107Chorus (One Each)MUSC 108 Liturgical Choir: Cantorum (Three Semesters) (One
Each)MUSC 207Chamber Choir (One Each)Liturgical Music RequirementsMUSC 255Music in Catholic Worship3
MUSC 333 Music and Ritual in Catholic Liturgical Life 3InternshipMUSC 394 Internship in Music 3Music ElectivesSelect one of the following: 3MUSC 260ConductingMUSC 185 Jazz ImprovisationMUSC 246Composition IMUSC 280I Applied Music: Organ (three semesters if not
student's primary instrument)Solo Recital or Capstone ProjectMUSC 387 Solo Recital: MUSC Capstone 1or MUSC 388Lecture/Recital: MUSC CapstoneTotal Hours42
1Must be taken concurrently.
2Students receiving a 3 or 4 on the AP Music Theory Exam are eligible to
receive credit for MUSC 144 Music Theory I .
3Students receiving a 5 are eligible to receive credit for MUSC 144 Music
Theory I  and MUSC 244 Music Theory II .

--- Page 423 ---
454  Music with a Concentration in Vocal Performance (BA)
4It is preferred that students complete Applied Music credits on the
same instrument, though multiple instruments are approved on a case-
by-case basis.
5Students must take three credits of MUSC 108 Liturgical Choir:
Cantorum  and 3 additional credits from any combination of the above.
Applied Music Lessons
Code Title Hours
MUSC 280A Applied Music: Clarinet 1MUSC 280AAApplied Music: Conducting1
MUSC 280B Applied Music: Percussion 1MUSC 280BBApplied Music: Improvisation1
MUSC 280C Applied Music: Oboe 1MUSC 280EApplied Music: Trumpet1
MUSC 280F Applied Music: Saxophone 1MUSC 280GApplied Music: Guitar1
MUSC 280I Applied Music: Organ 1MUSC 280JApplied Music: Piano1
MUSC 280K Applied Music: Voice 1MUSC 280LApplied Music: Violin1
MUSC 280M Applied Music: Flute 1MUSC 280NApplied Music: Cello1
MUSC 280O Applied Music: Double Bass 1MUSC 280PApplied Music: Viola1
MUSC 280Q Applied Music: Horn 1MUSC 280RApplied Music: Trombone1
MUSC 280S Applied Music: Harp 1MUSC 280UApplied Music: Drum Set1
MUSC 280V Applied Music: Tuba 1MUSC 280YApplied Music: Bassoon1
MUSC 280Z Applied Music: Composition 1MUSC 380AApplied Music Advanced: Clarinet1
MUSC 380AA Applied Music Advanced: Conducting 1MUSC 380BApplied Music Advanced: Percussion1
MUSC 380BB Applied Music Advanced: Improvisation 1MUSC 380CApplied Music Advanced: Oboe1
MUSC 380E Applied Music Advanced: Trumpet 1MUSC 380FApplied Music Advanced: Saxophone1
MUSC 380G Applied Music Advanced: Guitar 1MUSC 380IApplied Music Advanced: Organ1
MUSC 380J Applied Music Advanced: Piano 1MUSC 380KApplied Music Advanced: Voice1
MUSC 380L Applied Music Advanced: Violin 1MUSC 380MApplied Music Advanced: Flute1
MUSC 380N Applied Music Advanced: Cello 1MUSC 380OApplied Music Advanced: Double Bass1
MUSC 380P Applied Music Advanced: Viola 1MUSC 380QApplied Music Advanced: Horn1
MUSC 380R Applied Music: Advanced Trombone 1MUSC 380SApplied Music Advanced: Harp1
MUSC 380U Applied Music Advanced: Drum Set 1MUSC 380VApplied Music Advanced: Tuba1MUSC 380Y Applied Music Advanced: Bassoon 1MUSC 380ZApplied Music Advanced: Composition1
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this program, students will demonstrate:
•a thorough understanding of the basic elements related to music
theory: rhythm, melody, and harmony. 
•an understanding of musical forms, processes, and structures;
and the ability to employ this understanding in written and verbal
analyses. 
•proﬁciency in the basic areas of musicianship: keyboard, aural skills,
and sight-singing. 
•a basic knowledge of music history resulting, in part, from score
analysis, dedicated listening, and concert attendance.
•the ability to apply critical thinking towards music and its
contextualization. 
•the technical skills requisite for artistic self-expression.
•the knowledge and skills necessary to work collaboratively as part of
a musical ensemble. 
•the development of metacognitive skills. 
•a working knowledge of the artistic considerations necessary to
produce and perform a solo recital (capstone project)
Music with a Concentration in Vocal
Performance (BA)
Loyola’s Vocal Performance Concentration offers a program that
emphasizes rigorous, conservatory-level study in a liberal arts
setting. The curriculum is designed to support the artistry, citizenship,
and intellect of the singer, as well as pedagogy, performance, and
collaborative ensemble singing. Extraordinary singing is nurtured at
every stage, as well as care of the whole person within the liberal arts
environment.
In addition to the core music major requirements, students study diction,
vocal repertoire, vocal pedagogy, vocal coaching, and ensemble singing.
Students may also participate as soloists in oratorios, musicals, and
opera scenes, as well as other performance opportunities. All Vocal
Performance students are also required to give a full recital their senior
year.

--- Page 424 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 455
Recent performances include Mozart’s Requiem, Orff’s Carmina Burana,
Faure’s Requiem, Schubert’s Mass in G, Robert Ray’s Gospel Mass, Opera
Scenes, and James Whitbourn’s Annelies, which was performed with the
Grammy-nominated Lincoln Trio. Additionally, the choirs participate in the
annual holiday Lessons and Carols and JOYOLA, which collectively draw
over 1200 people each year.
With a ﬁrm dedication to supporting social justice issues through the
arts, Loyola’s vocal students often engage in programming that highlights
issues of our time. The choirs are frequent collaborators with the Institute
of Environmental Sustainability, having performed regularly at the
Climate Change Conference. Other projects have included a Black History
Month program, Holocaust remembrance programming, outreach to
the homeless, frequent collaborations with Misericordia, and the annual
Women’s Collegiate Choral Festival, celebrating women in the ﬁeld of
choral music.
In addition to supporting an outstanding faculty, Loyola also welcomes
frequent guest artists. Recent guests have included Craig Terry (Lyric
Opera), Richard Boldrey (Northwestern University), Rebecca Schorsch
(Roosevelt University), Anne Harley (Scripps College), Shannon McGinnis
(Collaborative Arts Institute), as well as area professional ensembles
such as Bella Voce and William Ferris Chorale.
The Vocal Performance Concentration allows for the flexibility needed for
students to pursue their love of singing, while simultaneously receiving a
solid liberal arts education. Loyola music majors have gone on to become
skilled educators, performers, arts administrators, music therapists,
scholars, and most importantly, well-rounded young professionals.
For more information about the Vocal Performance Concentration please
contact Kirsten Hedegaard at khedegaard@luc.edu .
Related Programs
Major
•Music (BA)  (p. 449)
•Music with a Concentration in Jazz Studies (BA)  (p. 452)
•Music with a Concentration in Liturgical Music (BA)  (p. 453)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Music TheoryMUSC 144Music Theory I 1, 2, 33
MUSC 145 Musicianship Lab I 11MUSC 244Music Theory II 1, 33
MUSC 245 Musicianship Lab II 11MUSC 344Music Theory III3
Music HistoryMUSC 353Music History II3
Select one of the following: 3MUSC 252Music History IMUSC 256 Jazz Music HistoryMUSC 354Music History IIIApplied MusicSelect six (6) credits of Applied Music Lessons  (p. 455) 46
EnsemblesSelect any combination of the following, totaling six credits:6
MUSC 107 ChorusMUSC 207Chamber ChoirSenior Capstone ExperienceMUSC 387Solo Recital: MUSC Capstone1
Required Vocal Performance CoursesMUSC 363Foundations of Vocal Technique and Pedagogy3
MUSC 364 Vocal Repertoire 3MUSC 365Vocal Performance Workshop3
ElectivesStudents may choose to take one three-credit class or a combination
of one-credit classes to fulﬁll this elective requirement.3
MUSC 280A-Z and MUSC 380A-Z Additional Applied Lesson of
your choice. (One Each)Additional MUSC Ensemble of your choice. (One Each)Additional MUSC History Course of your choiceTotal Hours42
1Must be taken concurrently.
2Students receiving a 3 or 4 on the AP Music Theory Exam are eligible to
receive credit for MUSC 144 Music Theory I .
3Students receiving a 5 are eligible to receive credit for MUSC 144 Music
Theory I  and MUSC 244 Music Theory II .
4It is preferred that students complete Applied Music credits on the
same instrument, though multiple instruments are approved on a case-
by-case basis.
Applied Music Lessons
Code Title Hours
MUSC 280A Applied Music: Clarinet 1MUSC 280AAApplied Music: Conducting1
MUSC 280B Applied Music: Percussion 1MUSC 280BBApplied Music: Improvisation1
MUSC 280C Applied Music: Oboe 1MUSC 280EApplied Music: Trumpet1
MUSC 280F Applied Music: Saxophone 1MUSC 280GApplied Music: Guitar1
MUSC 280I Applied Music: Organ 1MUSC 280JApplied Music: Piano1
MUSC 280K Applied Music: Voice 1MUSC 280LApplied Music: Violin1
MUSC 280M Applied Music: Flute 1MUSC 280NApplied Music: Cello1
MUSC 280O Applied Music: Double Bass 1MUSC 280PApplied Music: Viola1
MUSC 280Q Applied Music: Horn 1MUSC 280RApplied Music: Trombone1
MUSC 280S Applied Music: Harp 1MUSC 280UApplied Music: Drum Set1
MUSC 280V Applied Music: Tuba 1MUSC 280YApplied Music: Bassoon1
MUSC 280Z Applied Music: Composition 1MUSC 380AApplied Music Advanced: Clarinet1
MUSC 380AA Applied Music Advanced: Conducting 1MUSC 380BApplied Music Advanced: Percussion1

--- Page 425 ---
456  Musical Theatre Minor
MUSC 380BB Applied Music Advanced: Improvisation 1MUSC 380CApplied Music Advanced: Oboe1
MUSC 380E Applied Music Advanced: Trumpet 1MUSC 380FApplied Music Advanced: Saxophone1
MUSC 380G Applied Music Advanced: Guitar 1MUSC 380IApplied Music Advanced: Organ1
MUSC 380J Applied Music Advanced: Piano 1MUSC 380KApplied Music Advanced: Voice1
MUSC 380L Applied Music Advanced: Violin 1MUSC 380MApplied Music Advanced: Flute1
MUSC 380N Applied Music Advanced: Cello 1MUSC 380OApplied Music Advanced: Double Bass1
MUSC 380P Applied Music Advanced: Viola 1MUSC 380QApplied Music Advanced: Horn1
MUSC 380R Applied Music: Advanced Trombone 1MUSC 380SApplied Music Advanced: Harp1
MUSC 380U Applied Music Advanced: Drum Set 1MUSC 380VApplied Music Advanced: Tuba1
MUSC 380Y Applied Music Advanced: Bassoon 1MUSC 380ZApplied Music Advanced: Composition1
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this program, students will demonstrate:
•a thorough understanding of the basic elements related to music
theory: rhythm, melody, and harmony. 
•an understanding of musical forms, processes, and structures;
and the ability to employ this understanding in written and verbal
analyses. 
•proﬁciency in the basic areas of musicianship: keyboard, aural skills,
and sight-singing. 
•a basic knowledge of music history resulting, in part, from score
analysis, dedicated listening, and concert attendance.
•the ability to apply critical thinking towards music and its
contextualization. 
•the technical skills requisite for artistic self-expression.
•the knowledge and skills necessary to work collaboratively as part of
a musical ensemble. •the development of metacognitive skills. 
•a working knowledge of the artistic considerations necessary to
produce and perform a solo recital (capstone project)
Musical Theatre Minor
The Minor in Musical Theatre trains students to be skilled actors,
musicians, and dancers. This interdisciplinary opportunity is offered only
to students currently majoring in Theatre  (p. 467), Music  (p. 449), or
Dance  (p. 444).
Related Programs
Major
•Dance (BA)  (p. 444)
•Music (BA)  (p. 449)
•Theatre (BA)  (p. 467)
Minor
•Theatre Minor  (p. 469)
Curriculum
The Musical Theatre minor is structured differently dependent on a
student's major.  The three options are listed below.
Musical Theatre for Dance Major
A total of 22 credit hours are required for a minor in Musical Theatre as a
Dance Major.
Code Title Hours
TheatreTHTR 203Dramatic & Theatrical Process3or THTR 100Intro to Theatre Experience
THTR 252 Theatrical Design I 3THTR 261Beginning Acting3
MusicMUSC 107Chorus1
Select one of the following:  14MUSC 144 
& MUSC 145Music Theory I 
and Musicianship Lab IMUSC 244 
& MUSC 245Music Theory II 
and Musicianship Lab IIApplied Courses4
MUSC 280K Applied Music: Voice
or MUSC 380K Applied Music Advanced: VoiceCapstoneMUSC 374Musical Theatre Repertoire4Total Hours22
1You must take either Music Theory I (MUSC 144)  and Musicianship Lab
I (MUSC 145)  OR Music Theory II (MUSC 244)  and Musicianship Lab II
(MUSC 245) .
It is important that you enter the music theory and musicianship course
sequence according to your skill level.  If you are unclear about your skill
level, contact the director for assistance.   MUSC 144 Music Theory I  and

--- Page 426 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 457
MUSC 145 Musicianship Lab I  as well as  MUSC 244 Music Theory II  and
MUSC 245 Musicianship Lab II  must be taken concurrently.
Musical Theatre for Music Major
A total of 21 credit hours are required for a minor in Musical Theatre as a
Music Major.
Code Title Hours
TheatreTHTR 203Dramatic & Theatrical Process3or THTR 100Intro to Theatre Experience
THTR 252 Theatrical Design I 3THTR 261Beginning Acting3
DanceDANC 232Jazz Dance II: Theories and Techniques2
Select six credit hours from the following: 6DANC 275Global Influences on Contemporary Dance PracticeBalletDANC 111Ballet I: Introduction to Ballet Theory and
TechniqueDANC 212 Ballet Dance II: Theory and TechniqueDANC 213Ballet III: Advanced Continuing BalletDANC 341 Ballet IV: Anatomical Foundations and Cultural
ContextDANC 343Ballet V: Advancing Ballet: Contemporary
Methodologies in Applied BalletModernDANC 121Modern Dance I: Theories and TechniquesDANC 222 Modern Dance II: Theory and TechniqueDANC 324Modern III: Theory and TechniquesJazzDANC 131Jazz Dance I: Theories and TechniquesDANC 331 Jazz Dance III: Intermediate Jazz Dance Theories
and TechniquesPointeworkDANC 312 Pointe I: Theory and TechniquesDANC 314Pointe II: Continuing PointeworkCapstoneMUSC 374Musical Theatre Repertoire4Total Hours21
Musical Theatre for Theatre Major
A total of 21 credit hours are required for a minor in Musical Theatre as a
Theatre Major.
Code Title Hours
MusicMUSC 107Chorus1
Select one of the following:  14MUSC 144 
& MUSC 145Music Theory I 
and Musicianship Lab IMUSC 244 
& MUSC 245Music Theory II 
and Musicianship Lab IIApplied Courses4
MUSC 280K Applied Music: Voice 2or MUSC 380K Applied Music Advanced: VoiceDanceDANC 232 Jazz Dance II: Theories and Techniques 2Select an additional six hours of Dance from the following:6
DANC 275 Global Influences on Contemporary Dance PracticeBalletDANC 111 Ballet I: Introduction to Ballet Theory and
TechniqueDANC 212Ballet Dance II: Theory and TechniqueDANC 213 Ballet III: Advanced Continuing BalletDANC 341Ballet IV: Anatomical Foundations and Cultural
ContextDANC 343 Ballet V: Advancing Ballet: Contemporary
Methodologies in Applied BalletModernDANC 121 Modern Dance I: Theories and TechniquesDANC 222Modern Dance II: Theory and TechniqueDANC 324 Modern III: Theory and TechniquesJazzDANC 131 Jazz Dance I: Theories and TechniquesDANC 331Jazz Dance III: Intermediate Jazz Dance Theories
and TechniquesPointeworkDANC 312Pointe I: Theory and TechniquesDANC 314 Pointe II: Continuing PointeworkCapstoneMUSC 374Musical Theatre Repertoire4Total Hours21
1You must take either Musicianship Lab I and Music Theory I or
Musicianship Lab II and Music Theory II.
2Once the minor is declared students must apply to audition for
consideration and evaluation. The link to audition information can be
found here: 
https://www.luc.edu/music/academics/appliedlessons/
It is important that you enter the music theory and musicianship course
sequence according to your skill level.  If you are unclear about your skill
level, contact the director for assistance.   MUSC 144 Music Theory I  and
MUSC 145 Musicianship Lab I  as well as  MUSC 244 Music Theory II  and
MUSC 245 Musicianship Lab II  must be taken concurrently.
Musical Theatre Rep Course Rotation
MUSC 374 Musical Theatre Repertoire  is offered in the Fall semester
during even numbered years (ie. Fall 2024, Fall 2026, Fall 2028, etc. )
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.

--- Page 427 ---
458  Musical Theatre Minor
Suggested Sequence of Courses for Dance Majors 
Course Title Hours
Year 1
FallTHTR 203Dramatic & Theatrical Process3 Hours3
Spring
MUSC 280K Applied Music: Voice 1THTR 261Beginning Acting3 Hours4
Year 2
FallMUSC 144Music Theory I3MUSC 145Musicianship Lab I1 Hours4
Spring
MUSC 107 Chorus 1MUSC 280KApplied Music: Voice1 Hours2
Year 3
FallMUSC 280KApplied Music: Voice1 Hours1
SpringMUSC 280KApplied Music: Voice1THTR 252Theatrical Design I3 Hours4
Year 4
FallMUSC 374Musical Theatre Repertoire4 Hours4 Total Hours22
Suggested Sequence of Courses for Music Majors 
Course Title Hours
Year 1
FallTHTR 203Dramatic & Theatrical Process3 Hours3
SpringDANC 131Jazz Dance I: Theories and Techniques3 Hours3
Year 2
FallTHTR 261Beginning Acting3 Hours3
SpringDANC 232Jazz Dance II: Theories and Techniques2 Hours2
Year 3
Fall
THTR 252 Theatrical Design I 3DANC 111Ballet I: Introduction to Ballet Theory and
Technique3 Hours6
SpringDANC 121Modern Dance I: Theories and Techniques3 Hours3
Year 4
FallMUSC 374Musical Theatre Repertoire4 Hours4 Total Hours24
Suggested Sequence of Courses for Theatre Majors 
Course Title Hours
Year 1
FallMUSC 107Chorus1 Hours1
Spring
MUSC 280K Applied Music: Voice 1DANC 131Jazz Dance I: Theories and Techniques3 Hours4
Year 2
FallMUSC 280KApplied Music: Voice1DANC 232Jazz Dance II: Theories and Techniques2 Hours3
Spring
MUSC 280K Applied Music: Voice 1DANC 111Ballet I: Introduction to Ballet Theory and
Technique3 Hours4
Year 3
FallMUSC 144Music Theory I3MUSC 145Musicianship Lab I1 Hours4
Spring
DANC 121 Modern Dance I: Theories and Techniques 3MUSC 280KApplied Music: Voice1 Hours4
Year 4
FallMUSC 374Musical Theatre Repertoire4 Hours4 Total Hours24
Transfer-Student Residency Requirement
At least 11 hours of MTHE-MINR must be completed at Loyola.
Double-Dipping Policy
This department observes the CAS Double-Dipping Policy regarding
unique credits received for each declared major/minor. Additional

--- Page 428 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 459
information about the policy may be found here  (https://www.luc.edu/
cas/double-dippingpolicy/ ).
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Learning Outcomes
Students completing the Minor in Musical Theatre will:
•Create convincing characters and perform clear, active objectives
•Expand repertoire by performing pieces from a wide range of genres
and eras
•Acquire proper dance technique with opportunities to train in ballet,
modern, and jazz
•Demonstrate proper vocal technique and a deep understanding of
musicality, rhythm, and written music
Photography and Video Art (BA)
Photography has played a major role in the production of images in
visual culture since its invention in the ﬁrst half of the 19th century.
The program at Loyola University is focused on photography as an
artistic discipline that has developed a rich history over the last century
and a half, and which continues to evolve with recent innovations in
technology. The curriculum guides students in learning the technical
foundations, aesthetic strategies and conceptual approaches, and the
cultural/historical perspectives of the medium. Through the program,
students build their ability to pursue photography as a means o f creative
exploration and intellectual investigation.
The curriculum builds a foundation that enables students to pursue a
broad range of career paths. It provides an experience that prepares
students to apply to graduate programs and pursue a career in
contemporary art as an artist or a curator. It develops techniques for
students who are interested the commercial applications of the medium
(editorial fashion/architecture/product photography). Finally, as a
program that emphasizes the ability to create and analyze images, the
curriculum offers skills that are relevant to numerous ﬁelds beyond
photography that rely on conceptual thinking and communication
through visual means (architecture, design, advertising, illustration, photo
journalism, media studies, and visual anthropology).
Related Programs
Major
•Art History (BA)  (p. 441)
•Drawing, Painting and Printmaking (BA)  (p. 446)
Minor
•Photography and Video Art Minor  (p. 460)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Foundation CoursesFNAR 110Foundations of Visual Art3
FNAR 113 Drawing I 3Art History CoursesFNAR 365 History of Photography (Spring offering; odd
years)3Select one of the following:3
FNAR 202 Global Art History: Modern Art
or FNAR 306 Contemporary Art 1945-PresentApplied CoursesFNAR 115 Foundations of Photography 3FNAR 216Lighting Techniques for Photography and Video
Art3
FNAR 219 Photography: Digital Imaging (Spring offering) 3FNAR 315Photography: Films and Cameras3
FNAR 320 Video Art 3Select one of the following from Visual Communication:3
FNAR 132 Visual Communication I
or FNAR 233 Digital Media DesignSelect one of the following from Drawing, Painting & Printmaking:3
FNAR 114 Painting I
or FNAR 118 Printmaking ISelect one of the following from Sculpture & Ceramics:3
FNAR 124 Sculpture Foundations
or FNAR 120 Ceramics: HandbuildingSynthesisFNAR 388 Critical Approaches to Visual Art 3FNAR 398Fine Arts Capstone3
ElectivesSelect one of the following:3
FNAR 114 Painting I 1FNAR 118Printmaking I 1FNAR 120 Ceramics: Handbuilding 1FNAR 124Sculpture Foundations 1FNAR 132 Visual Communication I 1FNAR 202Global Art History: Modern Art 1FNAR 233 Digital Media DesignFNAR 306Contemporary Art 1945-Present 1FNAR 368Fine Arts InternshipTotal Hours45
1If not previously taken in Applied Courses category.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
FNAR 110 Foundations of Visual Art 3FNAR 113Drawing I3 Hours6
SpringFNAR 115Foundations of Photography3

--- Page 429 ---
460  Photography and Video Art MinorFNAR 202Global Art History: Modern Art3 Hours6
Year 2
Fall
FNAR 216 Lighting Techniques for Photography and
Video Art3FNAR 114 
or FNAR 118Painting I 
or Printmaking I3 Hours6
SpringFNAR 219Photography: Digital Imaging3FNAR 365History of Photography3 Hours6
Year 3
Fall
FNAR 315 Photography: Films and Cameras 3FNAR 132 
or FNAR 190Visual Communication I 
or Color Theory3 Hours6
SpringStudio Elective  13FNAR 124 
or FNAR 120Sculpture Foundations 
or Ceramics: Handbuilding3 Hours6
Year 4
Fall
FNAR 320 Video Art 3FNAR 388Critical Approaches to Visual Art3 Hours6
SpringFNAR 398Fine Arts Capstone3 Hours3 Total Hours45
1Select a course from the electives list not taken.
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.Learning Outcomes
•Employ visual and scholarly research in developing concepts that
underlie artistic projects
•Effectively communicate artistic intent through visual, written, and
oral forms
•Develop cohesive bodies of work for public presentations and build
portfolios to pursue professional opportunities
•Understand the role of artmaking in human creativity within a global
historical context 
•Differentiate between artistic styles and the multiplicity of
populations and communities from which works have been made
(and are made) 
•Engage in critical discussion with a depth of analysis and
appreciation for aesthetic and conceptual diversity
Photography and Video Art Minor
The Photography and Video Art minor is often added as a secondary
focus of study in order to complement or enhance a student's major or
chosen career path. Students may also choose to add the minor in order
to pursue an area of interest without the responsibility of a major.
The minor embodies many of the key historical, critical, theoretical,
methodological and contextual elements embedded within the more
comprehensive framework of the  major  (p. 459).
Related Programs
Major
•Photography and Video Art (BA)  (p. 459)
Minor
•Drawing, Painting and Printmaking Minor  (p. 448)
•Studio Art Minor  (p. 465)
Curriculum
A total of 18 credit hours are required for the minor in Photography.
Code Title Hours
Foundation CoursesFNAR 110Foundations of Visual Art3or FNAR 113Drawing I
History CoursesSelect one of the following:3
FNAR 202 Global Art History: Modern ArtFNAR 306Contemporary Art 1945-PresentFNAR 365 History of Photography (Spring offering; odd
years)Applied CoursesFNAR 115 Foundations of Photography 3FNAR 216Lighting Techniques for Photography and Video
Art3
FNAR 219 Photography: Digital Imaging (Spring offering) 3Select one of the following:3
FNAR 315 Photography: Films and Cameras

--- Page 430 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 461FNAR 320Video ArtTotal Hours18
Suggested Sequence of Courses 
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Freshman
Fall
Select one of the following:  FNAR 110 
or FNAR 113Foundations of Visual Art 
or Drawing I3 Hours3
SpringFNAR 115Foundations of Photography3 Hours3
Sophomore
FallFNAR 216Lighting Techniques for Photography and
Video Art3 Hours3
SpringFNAR 219Photography: Digital Imaging3 Hours3
Junior
FallSelect one of the following: FNAR 315 
or FNAR 320Photography: Films and Cameras 
or Video Art3 Hours3
Spring
Select one of the following: 3FNAR 202Global Art History: Modern Art 
FNAR 306 Contemporary Art 1945-Present  FNAR 365History of Photography  Hours3 Total Hours18
Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this program, students will be able to:
•Apply a range of materials, processes and techniques within their
chosen concentration as a primary form of artistic expression
•Analyze interpret and comprehend the elements that constitute a
work of art (visual, functional, psychological, and social)
•Engage in self-directed problem solving analysis and critical thinking,
and take creative and intellectual risks in the production of original
artwork•Employ scholarly and visual research in developing concepts,
principles, and theories that underlie their artistic intentions, and
effectively communicate them orally and in written form.
Sculpture and Ceramics (BA)
The Sculpture & Ceramics Major at Loyola University Chicago explores
the interplay between Art, Craft & Design, and reflects on the vital
contribution that three dimensional art forms make to material culture.
Enhanced by a long history and a diversity of contemporary practice, the
curriculum offers courses in 3D Design, Ceramics, Sculpture and Jewelry
which investigate a variety of perspectives and approaches (conceptual,
theoretical and empirical). The program is housed in the Ralph Arnold
Fine Arts Annex at the Lakeshore Campus which feature studio spaces
for 3D Design, Sculpture, Ceramics, & Jewelry.
The major provides opportunity to develop unique capabilities which
can be applied to a broad range of career paths. Students gain entry to
higher education, or they can focus strategically on building a distinctive
life in the visual arts though specialized production, promotion and
collaboration. Many skills are transferrable for students interested
in a career in the applied arts (interior architecture/product design/
advertising & PR/theater & ﬁlm/museums & galleries - exhibition design
and production, props, sets, special effects etc.).
Related Programs
Major
•Art History (BA)  (p. 441)
•Drawing, Painting and Printmaking (BA)  (p. 446)
Minor
•Sculpture and Ceramics Minor  (p. 462)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Foundation CoursesFNAR 110Foundations of Visual Art3
FNAR 113 Drawing I 3Art History CoursesFNAR 200 Global Art History: Prehistoric to 600 CE 3
or FNAR 201 Global Art History: 600-1800CEFNAR 202Global Art History: Modern Art3
Applied CoursesFNAR 115Foundations of Photography3
FNAR 120 Ceramics: Handbuilding 3
or FNAR 121 Ceramics: WheelthrowingFNAR 124Sculpture Foundations3
FNAR 222 Sculpture/Ceramics: Intermediate Ceramics 3FNAR 322Sculpture & Ceramics: Advanced Studio3
Select one of the following from Drawing, Painting & Printmaking: 3FNAR 114Painting IFNAR 118 Printmaking ISelect one of the following from Visual Communication:3
FNAR 132 Visual Communication IFNAR 190Color TheorySynthesis

--- Page 431 ---
462  Sculpture and Ceramics MinorFNAR 388Critical Approaches to Visual Art3
FNAR 398 Fine Arts Capstone 3ElectivesSelect one of the following: 3FNAR 120Ceramics: Handbuilding 1FNAR 121 Ceramics: Wheelthrowing 1FNAR 123Metalwork and Jewelry IFNAR 368Fine Arts InternshipTotal Hours42
1If not previously taken in Applied Courses category.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
FNAR 110 Foundations of Visual Art 3FNAR 113Drawing I3 Hours6
SpringFNAR 124Sculpture Foundations3FNAR 120 
or FNAR 121Ceramics: Handbuilding 
or Ceramics: Wheelthrowing3 Hours6
Year 2
Fall
FNAR 222 Sculpture/Ceramics: Intermediate
Ceramics3FNAR 200 
or FNAR 201Global Art History: Prehistoric to 600 CE 
or Global Art History: 600-1800CE3 Hours6
SpringFNAR 202Global Art History: Modern Art3FNAR 132 
or FNAR 190Visual Communication I 
or Color Theory3 Hours6
Year 3
Fall
FNAR 224 3Studio Elective  13 Hours6
SpringFNAR 115Foundations of Photography3FNAR 114 
or FNAR 118Painting I 
or Printmaking I3 Hours6Year 4
Fall
FNAR 322 Sculpture & Ceramics: Advanced Studio 3FNAR 388Critical Approaches to Visual Art3 Hours6
SpringFNAR 398Fine Arts Capstone3 Hours3 Total Hours45
1We recommend students take their studio art elective during junior or
senior year.
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Understand the place of art making in human creativity within a
global historical context.
•Differentiate between artistic styles, and the multiplicity of
populations and communities from which works of have been made
(and are made)
•Engage in critical discussion with a depth of analysis and
appreciation for aesthetic and conceptual diversity
Sculpture and Ceramics Minor
The Sculpture & Ceramics minor is often added as a secondary focus of
study in order to complement or enhance a student's major or chosen
career path. Students may also choose to add the minor in order to
pursue an area of interest without the responsibility of a major.
The minor embodies many of the key historical, critical, theoretical,
methodological and contextual elements embedded within the more
comprehensive framework of the major  (p. 461).
Related Programs
Major
•Sculpture and Ceramics (BA)  (p. 461)

--- Page 432 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 463
Minor
•Drawing, Painting and Printmaking Minor  (p. 448)
•Studio Art Minor  (p. 465)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Foundation CoursesFNAR 110Foundations of Visual Art3or FNAR 113Drawing I
Applied CoursesFNAR 120Ceramics: Handbuilding3or FNAR 121Ceramics: Wheelthrowing
FNAR 124 Sculpture Foundations 3FNAR 222Sculpture/Ceramics: Intermediate Ceramics3
FNAR 322 Sculpture & Ceramics: Advanced Studio 3History CoursesSelect one of the following: 3FNAR 200Global Art History: Prehistoric to 600 CEFNAR 201 Global Art History: 600-1800CEFNAR 202Global Art History: Modern ArtFNAR 207 Women, Art, and SocietyFNAR 304Paris in the Nineteenth CenturyFNAR 305 American Art to 1945FNAR 306Contemporary Art 1945-PresentFNAR 338 Medieval ArtFNAR 343Baroque ArtFNAR 344 Early Italian Renaissance ArtFNAR 345Italian High Renaissance and Mannerist ArtFNAR 349 Art and the Catholic TraditionFNAR 351Latin American Art I: Ancient to 19th CenturyFNAR 352 Islam and Visual CultureFNAR 353Latin American Art II: Modern to ContemporaryFNAR 355 Art of AfricaFNAR 356India, Women and Visual CultureFNAR 357 South Asian Visual CultureFNAR 358Chinese Art and CultureFNAR 359 Japanese Art and CultureFNAR 360Picturing Women in Renaissance and Baroque ArtFNAR 365History of PhotographyTotal Hours18
Suggested Sequence of Courses 
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Freshman
Fall
Select one of the following:  FNAR 110 
or FNAR 113Foundations of Visual Art 
or Drawing I3 Hours3
SpringFNAR 120 
or FNAR 121Ceramics: Handbuilding 
or Ceramics: Wheelthrowing3 Hours3
Sophomore
FallFNAR 124Sculpture Foundations3 Hours3
SpringSelect one of the following:3
FNAR 200 Global Art History: Prehistoric to 600 CE  FNAR 201Global Art History: 600-1800CE 
FNAR 202 Global Art History: Modern Art  FNAR 207Women, Art, and Society 
FNAR 304 Paris in the Nineteenth Century  FNAR 305American Art to 1945 
FNAR 306 Contemporary Art 1945-Present  FNAR 338Medieval Art 
FNAR 343 Baroque Art  FNAR 344Early Italian Renaissance Art 
FNAR 345 Italian High Renaissance and Mannerist Art  FNAR 349Art and the Catholic Tradition 
FNAR 351 Latin American Art I: Ancient to 19th
Century FNAR 352Islam and Visual Culture 
FNAR 353 Latin American Art II: Modern to
Contemporary FNAR 355Art of Africa 
FNAR 356 India, Women and Visual Culture  FNAR 357South Asian Visual Culture 
FNAR 358 Chinese Art and Culture  FNAR 359Japanese Art and Culture 
FNAR 360 Picturing Women in Renaissance and
Baroque Art FNAR 365History of Photography  Hours3
Junior
FallSelect one of the following: FNAR 222 
or FNAR 224Sculpture/Ceramics: Intermediate
Ceramics 
or3 Hours3
Senior
FallFNAR 322Sculpture & Ceramics: Advanced Studio3 Hours3 Total Hours18

--- Page 433 ---
464  Shakespeare Studies Minor
Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this program, students will be able to:
•Apply a range of materials, processes and techniques within their
chosen concentration as a primary form of artistic expression
•Analyze interpret and comprehend the elements that constitute a
work of art (visual, functional, psychological, and social)
•Engage in self-directed problem solving analysis and critical thinking,
and take creative and intellectual risks in the production of original
artwork
•Employ scholarly and visual research in developing concepts,
principles, and theories that underlie their artistic intentions, and
effectively communicate them orally and in written form
Shakespeare Studies Minor
The works of William Shakespeare are foundational for two disciplines
that Loyola offers as majors, English and Theatre, and central to the
liberal arts tradition that is at the core of the College of Arts and Sciences
undergraduate experience.
The Shakespeare Studies Minor will provide Loyola undergraduates
with the opportunity to pursue advanced study in an interdisciplinary
(http://www.luc.edu/shakespeare/participatingdepartmentsandfaculty/ )
fashion.  Drawing from six academic departments, Shakespeare is
one of the primary ﬁlters through which we experience the classical
and medieval worlds. He provides a crucible in which one can study
Renaissance history, philosophy, arts and literature. His work has had had
a profound impact on the Western intellectual tradition, wrestled with by
ﬁgures as wide-ranging as Coleridge, Goethe, Nietzsche, Dickens, Melville,
and Freud;  and his plays have inspired innumerable appropriations and
adaptations, in every conceivable form, from painting to opera, dance,
ﬁlm, and beyond. To encounter Shakespeare is to encounter as far as
it possible through a single ﬁgure, the breadth and scope of history,
art, culture, and philosophy, making his work an ideal focal point for
interdisciplinary spirit.
Students who wish to minor in Shakespeare Studies should contact  Lee
Keenan  (https://www.luc.edu/dfpa/facultyandstaffdirectory/
leekeenanmfa.shtml/ ), the Director of Theatre.
Related Programs
Major
•Theatre (BA)  (p. 467)
Minor
•Art History Minor  (p. 443)
•Theatre Minor  (p. 469)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesENGL 326Shakespeare: Selected Major Plays3
THTR 365 Theatre History and Literature II 3THTR 393Shakespeare Seminar3
ElectivesSelect three classes in three separate disciplines:9
CLST 271 Classical MythologyCLST 271GClassical Mythology - Women/Gender FocusCLST 273 Classical TragedyCLST 273GClassical Tragedy - Women/Gender FocusCLST 276 World of Classical RomeCLST 283Classical Comedy & SatireCLST 275 World of Classical GreeceCLST 280Romance Novel in Ancient WorldLATN 283 The Age of CaesarLATN 351Roman ComedyLATN 364 SenecaGREK 351AristophanesGREK 353 AeschylusGREK 354SophoclesGREK 355 EuripidesENGL 325British Literature-The RenaissanceENGL 327 Studies in ShakespeareENGL 328Studies in The RenaissanceENGL 368 Studies in Drama (when appropriate)PHIL 319Studies in Philososphy & Literature (if topic is
appropriate)HIST 314 RenaissanceHIST 315The ReformationHIST 316 History of PolandHIST 318CLondon 1550 - 1715HIST 330 Europe in the Age of Catastrophe, 1900-1945THTR 267Acting Theories &Techniques IITHTR 323 Rehearsal & Performance (when appropriate)THTR 364Theatre History and Literature ITotal Hours18
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Note: Suggested sequence supposed to begin ﬁrst semester sophom ore
year
Course Title Hours
First SemesterENGL 326Shakespeare: Selected Major Plays3 Hours3
Second SemesterTHTR 365Theatre History and Literature II3 Hours3
Third SemesterElective 13 Hours3
Fourth SemesterElective 23 Hours3

--- Page 434 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 465
Fifth SemesterElective 33 Hours3
Sixth SemesterTHTR 393Shakespeare Seminar3 Hours3 Total Hours18
Learning Outcomes
Students completing the Shakespeare Studies Minor will:
•Engage in the practices of interdisciplinary study.
•Acquire substantial knowledge of the works of William Shakespeare
and his contemporaries and the culture in which they lived.
•Master skills of research used to produce signiﬁcant works of
scholarship, preparing those who plan on pursuing academic
graduate work for further study.
•Acquire skills and knowledge that will provide a foundation for those
seeking to pursue a professional career in theatre.
Studio Art Minor
The Studio Art minor is often added as a secondary focus of study in
order to compliment or enhance a student's major or chosen career path.
Students may also choose to add the minor in order to pursue an area of
interest without the responsibility of a major.
Related Programs
Minor
•Art History Minor  (p. 443)
•Drawing, Painting and Printmaking Minor  (p. 448)
•Photography and Video Art Minor  (p. 460)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Foundation CoursesFNAR 110Foundations of Visual Art3or FNAR 113Drawing I
History CoursesSelect one of the following:3
FNAR 200 Global Art History: Prehistoric to 600 CEFNAR 201Global Art History: 600-1800CEFNAR 202 Global Art History: Modern ArtFNAR 207Women, Art, and SocietyFNAR 304 Paris in the Nineteenth CenturyFNAR 305American Art to 1945FNAR 306 Contemporary Art 1945-PresentFNAR 338Medieval ArtFNAR 343 Baroque ArtFNAR 344Early Italian Renaissance ArtFNAR 345 Italian High Renaissance and Mannerist ArtFNAR 349Art and the Catholic TraditionFNAR 351 Latin American Art I: Ancient to 19th CenturyFNAR 352Islam and Visual CultureFNAR 353 Latin American Art II: Modern to ContemporaryFNAR 355Art of AfricaFNAR 356 India, Women and Visual CultureFNAR 358Chinese Art and CultureFNAR 359 Japanese Art and CultureFNAR 360Picturing Women in Renaissance and Baroque ArtFNAR 365 History of PhotographyApplied CoursesSelect twelve credit hours from the following: 12FNAR 110Foundations of Visual Art 1FNAR 113 Drawing I 1FNAR 114Painting IFNAR 115 Foundations of PhotographyFNAR 118Printmaking IFNAR 120 Ceramics: HandbuildingFNAR 121Ceramics: WheelthrowingFNAR 123 Metalwork and Jewelry IFNAR 124Sculpture FoundationsFNAR 132 Visual Communication IFNAR 213Drawing IIFNAR 214 Painting IIFNAR 216Lighting Techniques for Photography and Video
ArtFNAR 218 Printmaking IIFNAR 219Photography: Digital ImagingFNAR 222 Sculpture/Ceramics: Intermediate CeramicsFNAR 232Visual Communication IIFNAR 233Digital Media DesignTotal Hours18
1If not taken for Foundation requirement.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Freshman
Fall
Select one of the following:  FNAR 110 
or FNAR 113Foundations of Visual Art 
or Drawing I3 Hours3
SpringFNAR Art History Choice (refer to list above)3 Hours3
SophomoreSophomore to Senior Years 
Select any combination of the following, totaling 12 credits: 12FNAR 110Foundations of Visual Art 1 

--- Page 435 ---
466  Teaching Artist Minor
FNAR 113 Drawing I 1 FNAR 114Painting I 
FNAR 115 Foundations of Photography  FNAR 118Printmaking I 
FNAR 120 Ceramics: Handbuilding  FNAR 121Ceramics: Wheelthrowing 
FNAR 123 Metalwork and Jewelry I  FNAR 124Sculpture Foundations 
FNAR 132 Visual Communication I  FNAR 213Drawing II 
FNAR 214 Painting II  FNAR 216Lighting Techniques for Photography and
Video Art 
FNAR 218 Printmaking II  FNAR 219Photography: Digital Imaging 
FNAR 222 Sculpture/Ceramics: Intermediate
Ceramics FNAR 224 
FNAR 232 Visual Communication II  FNAR 233Digital Media Design  Hours12 Total Hours18
1If not taken for the Foundation requirement.
Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this program, students will be able to:
•Apply a range of materials, processes and techniques within their
chosen concentration as a primary form of artistic expression
•Analyze interpret and comprehend the elements that constitute a
work of art (visual, functional, psychological, and social)
•Engage in self-directed problem solving analysis and critical thinking,
and take creative and intellectual risks in the production of original
artwork
•Employ scholarly and visual research in developing concepts,
principles, and theories that underlie their artistic intentions, and
effectively communicate them orally and in written form
Teaching Artist Minor
The Teaching Artist Minor at Loyola University Chicago prepares artists
to work as teaching artists in conjunction with certiﬁed public school
teachers, arts organizations, and out-of-school programs. The minor is
not a credentialing program. This minor focuses on experiential learning
in local schools and arts organizations, preparing Loyola undergraduates
to teach basic artistic skills to students from ages 7 to 70.
Related Programs
Minor
•Art History Minor  (p. 443)
•Photography and Video Art Minor  (p. 460)
•Studio Art Minor  (p. 465)Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesARTS 200Introduction to Teaching Artistry3
ARTS 201 Grant Writing for the Arts 2ARTS 397Fieldwork in Arts Education3
TLSC 110 The Profession and Our Program (TLLSC) 1TLSC 120Bringing Language, Learning & Development
Theory into Practice2
TLSC 130 Sequence One: 130 Community Immersion 1TLSC 140Teaching, Learning and Leading for Social Justice1
TLSC 150 Constructive Learning Environments For Diverse
Students1TLSC 160Analyzing Culturally-Responsive Classroom
Instruction1
Required: Arts Pedagogy Course  1Select one of the following:3
DANC 360 Dance PedagogyFNAR 303Visual Arts PedagogyMUSC 260 ConductingMUSC 363Foundations of Vocal Technique and PedagogyTHTR 348Creative DramaticsTotal Hours18
1School of Education (SOE) students completing this minor would
substitute their student teaching requirement ( TLSC 380 Tching, Lrning
& Leading with Schools & Communities Internship: Stud Tching ) for this
credit requirement.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
FallARTS 200Introduction to Teaching Artistry3 Hours3
Spring
TLSC 110 The Profession and Our Program (TLLSC) 1TLSC 120Bringing Language, Learning &
Development Theory into Practice2TLSC 130Sequence One: 130 Community Immersion1 Hours4
Year 2
Fall--  Hours0
Spring
Select one of the following: 3

--- Page 436 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 467TLSC 140Teaching, Learning and Leading for Social
Justice 
TLSC 150 Constructive Learning Environments For
Diverse Students TLSC 160Analyzing Culturally-Responsive Classroom
Instruction  Hours3
Year 3Select one Discipline Speciﬁc Pedagogy:3
DANC 360 Dance Pedagogy ( Fall)  FNAR 303Visual Arts Pedagogy ( Fall) 
MUSC 260 Conducting ( Fall)  MUSC 363Foundations of Vocal Technique and
Pedagogy ( Spring ) THTR 348Theatre Pedagogy ( Spring )  Hours3
Year 4
FallARTS 201Grant Writing for the Arts2 Hours2
SpringARTS 397 
or TLSC 380Fieldwork in Arts Education 
or Tching, Lrning & Leading with Schools
& Communities Internship: Stud Tching3 Hours3 Total Hours18
Learning Outcomes
Students completing the Teaching Artist Minor will:
•Employ fundamental knowledge of arts education, arts integration,
and community-based arts to develop a course of study appropriate
to speciﬁc institutions
•Apply pedagogy strategies that are developmentally appropriate
•Hold high expectations and build on the assets of diverse populations
•Utilize assessment strategies to measure learning effectiveness that
are non-discriminatory
•Demonstrate effective classroom management
Theatre (BA)
Loyola University Chicago’s Bachelor of Arts in Theatre strives to make
the most out of a liberal arts education. By fostering work in performance,
directing, design, technology, management, dramaturgy, and literature,
the theatre major prepares students to enter any aspect of the theatre
industry.
Our approach to theatre is based in the Liberal Arts; by offering a BA
rather than a BFA, we emphasize the importance of interdisciplinary
study in the formation of adaptable, well rounded theatre artists. By
nurturing and educating actors, directors, administrators, playwrights,
designers, and technicians, we prepare theatre artists to enter any aspect
of the industry.
Production of plays is integral to all of our academic work, and we offer
many opportunities  (https://www.luc.edu/theatre/opportunities/ ) for
students to participate in our active production program as actors,directors, designers, dramaturges, and playwrights. We produce a
season of faculty-directed  (https://www.luc.edu/theatre/aboutus/
facultyandproductionstaff/ ) plays and musicals, which often reflects
the curricular and educational goals and mission of the department. The
season is complimented by a diverse collection of student-generated
work, ranging from funded research to experimental and staged readings.
We also take full advantage of our location right in the heart of Chicago's
thriving theatre community. Our full time faculty of eight is comprised of
professional actors, directors, dramaturges, and designers. Students are
afforded chances to dabble in the professional world prior to graduation
with the guidance and mentorship of their professors, as well as the
multitude of internship and apprenticeship opportunities available at
professional theatres around the city.
Loyola University Chicago is one of eight NAST -accredited  (https://
nast.arts-accredit.org/ ) institutions in Illinois (and the only one in
the Chicago metropolitan area), as well as a member of the League
of Chicago Theatres  (https://chicagoplays.com/ ) and the Theatre
Communications Group  (https://circle.tcg.org/home/?ssopc=1 ).
Related Programs
Major
•Visual Communication (BA)  (p. 470)
Minor
•Musical Theatre Minor  (p. 456)
•Shakespeare Studies Minor  (p. 464)
•Theatre Minor  (p. 469)
Curriculum
A total of 47 credits are required to receive a B.A. in Theatre.
Code Title Hours
Foundation CoursesTHTR 203Dramatic & Theatrical Process3or THTR 100Intro to Theatre Experience
THTR 252 Theatrical Design I 3THTR 261Beginning Acting3
THTR 364 Theatre History and Literature I 3THTR 365Theatre History and Literature II3
THTR 366 Theatre History and Literature III 3THTR 367Theatre History and Literature IV3
THTR 375 Play Direction: Theater Capstone 3Emphasis Course ChoiceTHTR 267 Acting Theories &Techniques II 3
or THTR 352 Theatrical Design IIPracticumTHTR 321C Practicum: Costumes 2THTR 321SPracticum: Scenic2
THTR 321E Practicum: Electrics 2THTR 321RTheatre Practicum: Running Crew1
THTR 321P Theatre Practicum: Production Staff 1
or THTR 321R Theatre Practicum: Running CrewElectives

--- Page 437 ---
468  Theatre (BA)
Select 12 credit hours of the following, three of which must be
designated Engaged Learning:12THTR 204PlaywritingTHTR 227 Stage ManagementTHTR 241Voice & Diction for Stage ITHTR 267 Acting Theories &Techniques IITHTR 275Teleplay ProductionTHTR 300 Design Technology: Special Effects, Sound
EngineerTHTR 305Theatre Workshop: Special TopicsTHTR 323 Rehearsal & PerformanceTHTR 324DApplied DesignTHTR 324M Applied ManagementTHTR 327Theatre Management and Arts LeadershipTHTR 329 Make-up and Mask DesignTHTR 331Movement: Theories & Technique ITHTR 335 London Theatre ExperienceTHTR 336Stage Combat for ActorsTHTR 341 Studies in Dramatic FormTHTR 344Dialects for the StageTHTR 345 Drafting for the TheatreTHTR 346Scenic Art: Color Elevation to Scene PaintingTHTR 348 Theatre PedagogyTHTR 352Theatrical Design IITHTR 353 Theatrical Design IIITHTR 354Storytelling Design: Puppetry, Properties and ToyTHTR 368 Acting Theories and Techniques IIITHTR 369Acting Theories and Techniques IVTHTR 377 Audition SeminarTHTR 394Internship in TheatreTHTR 395 Seminar in TheatreTHTR 397Fieldwork in Chicago - TheatreTHTR 399Independent StudyTotal Hours47
Suggested Sequence of Courses
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
THTR 203 Dramatic & Theatrical Process 3THTR 321RTheatre Practicum: Running Crew1
Select one of the following: 3THTR 261Beginning Acting 
THTR 252 Theatrical Design I  Select one of the following:2
THTR 321C Practicum: Costumes  THTR 321EPracticum: Electrics THTR 321SPracticum: Scenic  Hours9
Spring
Select one of the following: 3THTR 261Beginning Acting 
THTR 252 Theatrical Design I  Select one of the following:3
THTR 267 Acting Theories &Techniques II  THTR 352Theatrical Design II 
Select one of the following: 2THTR 321CPracticum: Costumes 
THTR 321E Practicum: Electrics  THTR 321SPracticum: Scenic  Hours8
Year 2
FallTHTR 364Theatre History and Literature I3
Select one of the following: 1THTR 321RTheatre Practicum: Running Crew 
THTR 321P Theatre Practicum: Production Staff  Elective 13 Hours7
SpringTHTR 365Theatre History and Literature II3Elective 23 Hours6
Year 3
FallTHTR 366Theatre History and Literature III3 Hours3
Spring
THTR 367 Theatre History and Literature IV 3Elective 33 Hours6
Year 4
FallSelect one of the following:2
THTR 321C Practicum: Costumes  THTR 321EPracticum: Electrics THTR 321SPracticum: Scenic  Hours2
Spring
THTR 375 Play Direction: Theater Capstone 3Elective 43 Hours6 Total Hours47
Residency Requirement
Transfer students majoring in theatre are required to complete a
minimum of 24 credit hours of theatre major requirements at Loyola.
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).

--- Page 438 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 469
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Upon completion of the Theatre Major students will be able to
demonstrate the variety of skills necessary for producing theatre;
including collaboration, communication and hands-on skills through
the completion of practicum courses.
•Upon completion of the Theatre Major students can construct and
communicate nuanced, well-chosen, evidenced arguments in one
or more ways as evidenced in a thesis-based essay, program note,
dramaturgical research, artistic and/or creative reflections.
•Upon completion of the Theatre Major students can articulate
connections between history/theory and theatrical practice as
evidenced in a thesis-based essay or capstone Directing case book.
•Upon completion of the Theatre Major students can demonstrate
ethical reasoning about theatre’s impact on global communities
through creation of works, analysis of works or acknowledgement of
works.
•Upon completion of the Theatre Major students will be able to
translate research and script analysis into a role via in-class scene
work and/or production performance.
•Upon completion of the Theatre Major students will be able to
contribute to a collaborative, creative ensemble via consistent
participation and effective incorporation of feedback through in-class
work and/or production.
•Upon completion of the Theatre Major students will be able to present
creative and analytical ideas orally and visually while balancing self-
expression and collaborative team dynamics.
Theatre Minor
The Minor in Theatre cultivates foundational knowledge in theatrical
literature, performance, design, and technology, with room for at least
three elective courses for advanced exploration or speciﬁc topics.
Related Programs
Major
•Theatre (BA)  (p. 467)
Minor
•Musical Theatre Minor  (p. 456)
•Shakespeare Studies Minor  (p. 464)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Foundational CourseTHTR 203Dramatic & Theatrical Process3or THTR 100Intro to Theatre Experience
Studio CoursesTHTR 252Theatrical Design I3THTR 261 Beginning Acting 3Practicum3
THTR 321C Practicum: CostumesTHTR 321EPracticum: ElectricsTHTR 321P Theatre Practicum: Production StaffTHTR 321RTheatre Practicum: Running CrewTHTR 321S Practicum: ScenicElectives  (p. 469)Theatre Electives9Total Hours21
Electives List
Code Title Hours
THTR 204 Playwriting 3THTR 227Stage Management3
THTR 324M Applied Management 1-3THTR 327Theatre Operation3
THTR 241 Voice & Diction for Stage I 3THTR 344Dialects for the Stage3
THTR 331 Movement: Theories & Technique I 3THTR 267Acting Theories &Techniques II3
THTR 368 Acting Theories and Techniques III 3THTR 369Acting Theories and Techniques IV3
THTR 377 Audition Seminar 3THTR 142Class Voice for Beginners3
THTR 323 Rehearsal & Performance 1-12THTR 352Theatrical Design II3
THTR 353 Theatrical Design III 3THTR 324DApplied Design1-3
THTR 300 Design Technology: Special Effects, Sound
Engineer3THTR 329Make-up and Mask Design3
THTR 345 Drafting for the Theatre 3THTR 346Scenic Art: Color Elevation to Scene Painting3
THTR 354 Storytelling Design: Puppetry, Properties and Toy 3THTR 348Creative Dramatics3
THTR 364 Theatre History and Literature I 3THTR 365Theatre History and Literature II3
THTR 366 Theatre History and Literature III 3THTR 367Theatre History and Literature IV3
THTR 375 Play Direction: Theater Capstone 3THTR 336Stage Combat for Actors3
THTR 305 Theatre Workshop: Special Topics 3THTR 335London Theatre Experience3
THTR 341 Studies in Dramatic Form 3THTR 394Internship in Theatre1-6
THTR 395 Seminar in Theatre 3THTR 396Seminar in Theatre II3
THTR 397 Fieldwork in Chicago - Theatre 1-6THTR 399Independent Study3

--- Page 439 ---
470  Visual Communication (BA)
Suggested Sequence of Courses
Course Title Hours
First SemesterTHTR 100 
or THTR 203Intro to Theatre Experience 
or Dramatic & Theatrical Process3 Hours3
Second Semester
THTR 261 Beginning Acting 3THTR 321RTheatre Practicum: Running Crew1 Hours4
Third SemesterTHTR 252Theatrical Design I3 Hours3
Fourth SemesterSelect one of the following:2
THTR 321C Practicum: Costumes  THTR 321EPracticum: Electrics 
THTR 321S Practicum: Scenic  Elective 13 Hours5
Fifth SemesterElective 23 Hours3
Sixth SemesterElective 33 Hours3 Total Hours21
Residency Requirement
Transfer students minoring in theatre are required to complete a
minimum of 11 credit hours of theatre minor requirements at Loyola.
Learning Outcomes
Students completing the Minor in Theatre will:
•Develop an understanding of dramatic and structural composition
•Demonstrate how set, costumes, and lighting are used as tools for
expression
•Analyze a play with character in mind, develop relationships with
fellow actors on stage, and play clear and effective character
objectives
•Gain hands-on production experience
Visual Communication (BA)
The visual communication program in the Fine Arts Division at Loyola
University Chicago prepares students to enter the workforce as design
professionals, with graduates employed in graphic design studios,
internal design teams, branding ﬁrms, cultural institutions, and other
creative agencies. Students learn graphic design history, theory, and
practice, in a rigorous program that covers the essentials needed by
professionals. Graduates of the program have career opportunities in
branding and corporate identity, advertising, web design, motion graphics,
interface design, package design, mobile interactive design, digital
product design, exhibit design, print and publication design, and more.Related Programs
Major
•Photography and Video Art (BA)  (p. 459)
Minor
•Teaching Artist Minor  (p. 466)
•Visual Communication Minor  (p. 471)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Foundation CoursesFNAR 113Drawing I3
FNAR 112 Two-Dimensional Design 3FNAR 190Color Theory3
Art History CoursesSelect one of the following:3
FNAR 202 Global Art History: Modern ArtFNAR 364History of Graphic Design (Fall offering; even
years)Applied CoursesFNAR 115Foundations of Photography3
FNAR 132 Visual Communication I 3FNAR 232Visual Communication II3
FNAR 233 Digital Media Design 3FNAR 332Visual Communication III (Fall only)3
FNAR 333 Explorations in Typography 3FNAR 334Motion Design3
FNAR 382 Visual Communication IV (Spring only) 3FNAR 383Interactive Design3
SynthesisFNAR 380Internship I3
FNAR 398 Fine Arts Capstone 3Optional Electives (not required)FNAR 118 Printmaking IFNAR 213Drawing IICOMM 275 Web Design and UsabilityCOMM 299Themes in Film and Digital MediaFNAR 381Internship IITotal Hours45
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
FNAR 112 Two-Dimensional Design 3FNAR 113Drawing I3 Hours6

--- Page 440 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 471
SpringFNAR 132Visual Communication I3FNAR 233Digital Media Design3 Hours6
Year 2
Fall
FNAR 115 Foundations of Photography 3FNAR 190Color Theory3FNAR 202 
or FNAR 364Global Art History: Modern Art 
or History of Graphic Design3 Hours9
Spring
FNAR 232 Visual Communication II 3FNAR 334Motion Design3 Hours6
Year 3
FallFNAR 332Visual Communication III3FNAR 333Explorations in Typography3 Hours6
SpringFNAR 383Interactive Design3 Hours3
Year 4
FallFNAR 380Internship I3 Hours3
Spring
FNAR 382 Visual Communication IV 3FNAR 398Fine Arts Capstone3 Hours6 Total Hours45
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this program, students will be able to demonstrate:•An understanding of the role of visual communication in the culture
at large
•An understanding of and experience in the variety of forms of visual
communication from print to digital media, mastering the basics of
visual form, color, typography, photography, layout, and interactive
media
•Technical skills used to produce visual communication digitally and
by hand
•Knowledge of key historical periods in the history of graphic design
•Skills in critical thinking, written and oral communication, visual
literacy, and the conceptualization of self-developed projects
•Readiness for a career through a capstone project, an internship
experience, and the preparation of a portfolio and related professional
documents
Visual Communication Minor
The Visual Communication minor is often added as a secondary focus
of study in order to complement or enhance a student's major or chosen
career path. Students may also choose to add the minor in order to
pursue an area of interest without the responsibility of a major.
While the major  (p. 470) is a comprehensive course of study, the minor
in Visual Communication is intended to provide a breadth of knowledge.
Visual Communication minors develop a base-level understanding of the
ﬁeld, including how to organize complex information in order to persuade,
to entertain, and to educate a diverse audience.
Related Programs
Major
•Visual Communication (BA)  (p. 470)
Minor
•Teaching Artist Minor  (p. 466)
Curriculum
A total of 18 credit hours are required for the minor in Visual
Communication.
Code Title Hours
Foundation CoursesFNAR 112Two-Dimensional Design3or FNAR 113Drawing I
History CoursesFNAR 202Global Art History: Modern Art3or FNAR 364History of Graphic Design
Applied CoursesFNAR 132Visual Communication I3
FNAR 232 Visual Communication II 3FNAR 233Digital Media Design3FNAR 334Motion Design3Total Hours18
Suggested Sequence of Courses 
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the

--- Page 441 ---
472  Forensic Science
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Freshman
Fall
Select one of the following:  FNAR 112 
or FNAR 113Two-Dimensional Design 
or Drawing I3 Hours3
SpringSelect one of the following: FNAR 202 
or FNAR 364Global Art History: Modern Art 
or History of Graphic Design3 Hours3
Sophomore
FallFNAR 132Visual Communication I3 Hours3
SpringFNAR 232Visual Communication II3 Hours3
Junior
FallFNAR 233Digital Media Design3 Hours3
SpringFNAR 334Motion Design3 Hours3 Total Hours18
Learning Outcomes  
Upon completion of this program, students will be able to demonstrate:
•An understanding of the role of visual communication in the culture
at large
•An understanding of and experience in the variety of forms of visual
communication from print to digital media, mastering the basics of
visual form, color, typography, photography, layout, and interactive
media
•Technical skills used to produce visual communication digitally and
by hand
•Knowledge of key historical periods in the history of graphic design
•Skills in critical thinking, written and oral communication, visual
literacy, and the conceptualization of self-developed projects
•Readiness for a career through a capstone project, an internship
experience, and the preparation of a portfolio and related professional
documents
Forensic Science
About Us
Forensic scientists analyze and evaluate evidence in criminal
investigations. This evidence may include DNA from bodily fluids
or other cells, drugs in different forms or in bodily fluids, ﬁrearms/weapons, and a variety of other types of evidence.  A strong background
in natural sciences, especially biology, chemistry or anthropology,
allows the scientist to apply their knowledge to these analyses. The
Forensic Science Program at Loyola University Chicago emphasizes
natural science coursework and builds other necessary skills including
critical thinking, ethics, strong analytical abilities, and written and oral
communication.
Students pursuing the BS in Forensic Science  (p. 474) at Loyola
University Chicago beneﬁt from expert faculty and state-of-the-art
facilities, preparing them for careers in a variety of occupational settings.
Apply today!
Program Mission Statement
Provide Loyola University Chicago students with a solid foundation
in the natural sciences, educate students in a broad range of forensic
analytical techniques from a generalist perspective, educate students in
the various aspects of forensic science professional practice, emphasize
the importance of critical thinking skills in approaching forensic science
problems, and prepare students for entry level positions in forensic
science laboratories and graduate or professional schools in the forensic
sciences.
Advisory Board
In keeping with our mission, the Forensic Science Program has an
advisory board made up of administrators from forensic laboratories.
  The relationships with these laboratories allows the Forensic Science
Program to provide our graduates with the most relevant education, skills,
and abilities to gain employment.  Advisory Board members are regional
and national leaders, active within their respective disciplines. Members
are from the Illinois State Police Forensic Science Center at Chicago,
Northeastern Illinois Regional Crime Laboratory, DuPage County Crime
Laboratory, Idaho State Police, US Drug Enforcement Administration-
North Central Regional Laboratory, US Internal Revenue Service-National
Laboratory, US Food and Drug Administration-Forensic Chemistry Center,
and United States Drug Testing Laboratories, Inc.
Undergraduate Programs
•Forensic Science (BS)  (p. 474)
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Forensic Science (FRSC)
FRSC 340   Introduction to Forensic Science   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CJC 101; Forensic Science Majors Only   
This course provides an overview of the basic principles and uses
of forensic science within the ﬁeld of criminal justice. The course is
designed for forensic science majors emphasizing the scientiﬁc aspects
in the forensic sciences.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to identify the uses and limitations of the existing
forensic science techniques used within the ﬁeld of criminal justice

--- Page 442 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 473
FRSC 341   Forensic Ethics and Professional Practice   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FRSC 340; Forensic Science Majors only   
This course develops a basic scientiﬁc literacy, understanding of
the scientiﬁc method of inquiry, understanding ethical thought and
application of ethics to the ﬁeld and professional practice of forensic
science.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding and application of ethics
in the forensic sciences; Students will be able to articulate the role
and challenges of ethical issues facing forensic science today, the
applicability of ethics in the profession and their individual careers
FRSC 342   Expert Witness Testimony and Court Room Demeanor   (3
Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FRSC 341; Forensic Science Majors Only   
The goal for this course is to give you the information necessary to
be an effective and ethical witness. This should help throughout your
career and help make testimony not so much something to be feared as
something which represents the culmination of your work in a case.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Students should develop courtroom and expert witness testimony
literacy, understanding of the dynamics during court and appreciate the
impact to the judicial system
FRSC 343   Physical Organic Chemistry for Forensic Science   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHYS 112; MATH 132; CHEM 222 or (CHEM 224 and
CHEM 226) or (CHEM 240, CHEM 241, CHEM 260, and CHEM 272); and
Forensic Science majors   
An introduction to the foundational principles of physical and physical
organic chemistry. The course focuses on the application of these
principles to solving problems in forensic science. The numerous aspects
of forensic science require a working knowledge of physical chemistry,
the foundational principles, and the interrelation of cause and effect.
Outcomes:
Understand the basic concepts of physical and physical organic
chemistry; Acquire and interpret data and form conclusions; and Use
critical thinking skills in problem solving
FRSC 350   Pattern Evidence I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FRSC 341; Forensic Science Majors only   
This course introduces the basic principles and methods of forensic
pattern evidence: latent ﬁngerprints, ﬁrearms and tool marks, and
question documents.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Course equivalencies:  X-CRMJ382/FRSC382   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the three (3) forensic
pattern evidence areas; Students will develop techniques, work on non-
probative cases, and written formal reports of ﬁndings
FRSC 350L   Pattern Evidence Lab I   (1 Credit Hour)   
Co-requisites:  FRSC 350; Forensic Science Majors only   
This course introduces the basic laboratory methods of forensic
pattern evidence: latent prints, ﬁrearms and toolmarks, and questioned
documents. Prerequisite or
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate a basic competency through development of
various techniques; Students will work non-probative cases, along with
written formal reports of their ﬁndingsFRSC 360   Forensic Drug Chemistry I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (CHEM 212, CHEM 214, CHEM 224, and CHEM 226) or
(CHEM 241, CHEM 272, and CHEM 280); FRSC 342; and Forensic Science
majors   
This course provides an introduction to the basic principles of forensic
drug analysis. The use of microscopic, chemical, and chromatographic
techniques to gather data, interpret results and form conclusions are
developed. Recognizing the strengths and weaknesses in the techniques
used and the correct interpretation of results is stressed.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Course equivalencies:  CHEM 316/FRSC 360   
Outcomes:
The techniques, skills, advances and limitations of the modern forensic
laboratory discussed; The students will be able to summarize basic
concepts of forensic drug analysis, testing, and formal reporting
FRSC 360L   Forensic Drug Chemistry Laboratory I   (2 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (CHEM 212, CHEM 214, CHEM 224, and CHEM 226) or
(CHEM 241, CHEM 272, and CHEM 280); FRSC 342 and Forensic Science
majors   
Co-requisites:  FRSC 360   
This course provides both basic and advanced foundations to the
principles of forensic drug analysis. The use of basic and advanced
analytical techniques to gather data, interpret results and form
conclusions are developed. Additionally, national forensic laboratory
operational standards and requirements are incorporated.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Course equivalencies:  CHEM 316L/FRSC 360L   
Outcomes:
The techniques, skills, advances and limitations of the modern forensic
laboratory will be discussed; The students will be able to demonstrate
basic/advanced concepts of forensic drug analysis, testing, and formal
reporting
FRSC 361   Forensic Toxicology I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FRSC 360/360L; Co-requisite FRSC 361L; Forensic Science
Majors Only   
This course stresses the practical and theoretical aspects to forensic
toxicology, the study of drugs and their implications in a forensic
setting when toxicity sets in. The analysis and description of drugs are
introduced. Case studies are reviewed where drug use may become a
forensic matter.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Course equivalencies:  CHEM 315/FRSC 361   
Outcomes:
Students should develop basic scientiﬁc literacy, understanding of
the scientiﬁc method of inquiry, understanding ethical thought and
application of ethics to the ﬁeld of forensic toxicology
FRSC 361L   Forensic Toxicology Laboratory I   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  FRSC 360/360L; Corequisite: FRSC 361; Forensic Science
Majors Only   
This course stresses the practical and theoretical aspects to forensic
toxicology, the study of drugs and their implications in a forensic
setting when toxicity sets in. The analysis and description of drugs are
introduced. Case studies are reviewed where drug use may become a
forensic matter.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
The techniques, skills, advances and limitations of the modern forensic
laboratory discussed; The students will be able to summarize basic
concepts of forensic drug analysis, testing, and formal reporting

--- Page 443 ---
474  Forensic Science (BS)
FRSC 370   Forensic Biology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FRSC 341, BIOL 102 and 112; Corequisite: FRSC 370L;
Forensic Science Majors Only   
This course stresses the practical and theoretical aspects to forensic
biology. Forensic biology includes the examination, identiﬁcation, and
characterization of biological materials found on various types of
evidence.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Students should develop basic scientiﬁc literacy, understanding of
the scientiﬁc method of inquiry, understanding ethical thought and
application of ethics to the ﬁeld of forensic biology
FRSC 370L   Forensic Biology Laboratory   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  FRSC 341, BIOL 102 and 112; Corequisite: FRSC 370;
Forensic Science Majors Only   
This course stresses the practical and theoretical aspects to forensic
biology. Forensic biology includes the examination, identiﬁcation, and
characterization of biological materials found on various types of
evidence.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Students should develop basic scientiﬁc literacy, understanding of
the scientiﬁc method of inquiry, understanding ethical thought and
application of ethics to the ﬁeld of forensic biology
FRSC 371   Forensic Molecular Biology Lecture and Laboratory   (5 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 282, BIOL 283, FRSC 342, FRSC 370, FRSC 370L;
Forensic Science Majors only - Biology/DNA Option   
This course prepares students to work in forensic DNA analysis. The
lectures cover the basic aspects of DNA structure and function while
the laboratory gives students experience with the techniques and
instruments used in forensic DNA analysis.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Students will have a strong theoretical understanding of STR marker
origin, population biology, and legal uses, and will be able to isolate and
process DNA for STR scoring
FRSC 390   Forensic Science Internship   (3-4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FRSC 342; Forensic Science Majors Only   
The purpose of this course is to enhance the student's development and
learning through observational and participatory experience in forensic
focused criminal justice agencies.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  X-FRSC 390/ANTH 396A   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to contribute in a meaningful way to the operation
of a speciﬁc forensic focused criminal justice agency and be able to
identify and describe the link between their ﬁeld experience and prior
courses
FRSC 392   Forensic Science Seminar   (1 Credit Hour)   
A weekly seminar course with presentations, generally given by outside
speakers, covering topics in chemistry usually not encountered in the
classroom. Forensic Science Majors Only.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate their understanding by writing a one page
summary of each presentationFRSC 394   Forensic Science Research   (1-4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Prior consultation with the instructor and a completed
agreement form; Agreement forms for this directed study course are
obtained from the program ofﬁce, and the completed form (signed by
the student, instructor, and program director) must be deposited in the
program ofﬁce before enrollment   
This course gives undergraduate students an opportunity to participate in
research in a selected area. Forensic Science Majors Only.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will accomplish the research task deﬁned in the contractual
arrangement between the student and the instructor
FRSC 395   Special Topics in the Forensic Science   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FRSC 341; Forensic Science Majors Only   
Special topics courses provide students with an opportunity to examine
various forensic science topics not normally offered as part of the
Program's regular curriculum.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to gain an understanding of new issues co nfronting
the forensic sciences, or an advanced understanding of traditional
subjects covered in basic courses
Forensic Science (BS)
Loyola's strong reputation in the sciences, along with its successful track
record in preparing students for the health professions, enables forensic
science graduates to begin highly successful careers in this dynamic
ﬁeld.
The Program is fully accredited by The Forensic Education Programs
Accreditation Commission (FEPAC).  Learn more about FEPAC on their
website.  (https://www.fepac-edu.org/ )
This major combines coursework from biology, chemistry, criminal justice,
mathematics, physics, in addition to forensic science courses.
Program Content and Sensitive Topics
The Forensic Science Program curriculum, by its very nature, includes
sensitive topics such as drug overdose, drug-facilitated sexual assault,
sexual violence, domestic violence, postmortem forensic toxicology,
homicides, and other violent crime.  Our faculty endeavor to handle
these topics with the appropriate respect, professionalism, gravity,
and discretion.  However, students should be aware that these and
other topics involving criminal behavior are covered in numerous
courses throughout the curriculum.  Some courses also include in-depth
discussion and case studies.
Related Programs
Major
•Biochemistry (BS)  (p. 325)
•Criminal Justice and Criminology (BS)  (p. 375)
Minor
•Criminal Justice and Criminology Minor  (p. 376)
Curriculum
The forensic science major requires 85-87 credit hours of coursework.
  The curriculum delivers a broad knowledge base and covers the three

--- Page 444 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 475
major areas in forensic science laboratories: pattern, biology-DNA, and
chemistry.  Students in this program are required to include the following
classes in their curriculum:
Code Title Hours
Laboratory Science CoursesBIOL 101General Biology I3
BIOL 111 General Biology I Lab 1BIOL 102General Biology II3
BIOL 112 General Biology II Lab 1BIOL 282Genetics3
BIOL 283 Genetics Laboratory 1BIOL 366 /
CHEM 361Cell Physiology & Biochemistry3
BIOL 366L Cell Physiology & Biochemistry Lab 3CHEM 160Chemical Structure and Properties3
CHEM 161 Chemical Structure and Properties Laboratory 1CHEM 180Chemical Reactivity I3
CHEM 181 Chemical Reactivity I Lab 1CHEM 240Chemical Reactivity II3
CHEM 241 Chemical Reactivity II Laboratory 1CHEM 260Quantitative Methods in Chemistry3
CHEM 272 Analytical Chemistry Laboratory 2CHEM 280Environmental & Chemical Analysis3
PHYS 111 
& 111LCollege Physics I Lec / Dis 
and College Physics Laboratory I4PHYS 112 
& 112LCollege Physics II Lec/Disc 
and College Physics Lab II4
Forensic Science and Criminal Justice CoursesCJC 101Criminal Justice in a Global Context3
FRSC 340 Introduction to Forensic Science 3FRSC 341Forensic Ethics and Professional Practice3
FRSC 342 Expert Witness Testimony and Court Room
Demeanor3FRSC 343Physical Organic Chemistry for Forensic Science3
FRSC 350 
& 350LPattern Evidence I 
and Pattern Evidence Lab I4FRSC 360 
& 360LForensic Drug Chemistry I 
and Forensic Drug Chemistry Laboratory I5
FRSC 370 
& 370LForensic Biology 
and Forensic Biology Laboratory4Forensic CapstoneSelect one of the following: 3-5FRSC 361 
& 361LForensic Toxicology I 
and Forensic Toxicology Laboratory IFRSC 371 Forensic Molecular Biology Lecture and LaboratoryANTH 396Internship in Anthropology 1Ancillary CoursesMATH 131Applied Calculus I3
MATH 132 Applied Calculus II 3BIOL 335Intro to Biostatistics3or STAT 335Introduction to BiostatisticsTotal Hours86-881Requires ANTH 326 Human Osteology Lec/Lab  as a prerequisite
In addition to fulﬁlling major requirements to earn an undergraduate
degree, students are required to complete Loyola's  Core Curriculum
(p. 1405 ), which teaches them important skills and values. Students also
develop their own interests by taking general electives.
Electives
Code Title Hours
Students in this program are encouraged, but not required, to select
elective courses from the following list:ANTH 324Human Evolution3
ANTH 326 Human Osteology Lec/Lab 4BIOL 242Human Structure and Function I4
BIOL 359 /
ANTH 359Paleopathology 3BIOL 243Human Structure and Function II4
BIOL 251 Cell Biology 3BIOL 341Histology Lec/Lab4
BIOL 342 Human Anatomy 4BIOL 363Entomology Lec/Lab4
BIOL 389 Introduction to Pharmacology 3FRSC 390Forensic Science Internship3-4
FRSC 392 Forensic Science Seminar 1FRSC 394Forensic Science Research1-4
FRSC 395 Special Topics in the Forensic Science 3CJC 201Theories of Criminal Behavior3
CJC 202 Criminal Courts 3CJC 203Policing3
CJC 322 Criminal Law 3CJC 323Criminal Procedure3
CJC 371 Victimology 3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
Students  not placing in  MATH 118 Precalculus II  or higher cannot start
the Chemistry sequence until  MATH 117 Precalculus I  is completed with
a grade of C- or better. Such students are advised to enroll in ﬁrst-year
Chemistry courses in the summer sessions (after meeting the math
requirement) in order to complete the major in four years.
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
BIOL 101 General Biology I 3BIOL 111General Biology I Lab1
CHEM 160 Chemical Structure and Properties 3CHEM 161Chemical Structure and Properties
Laboratory1
MATH 131 
or MATH 161Applied Calculus I 
or Calculus I3

--- Page 445 ---
476  Global StudiesUCWR 110Writing Responsibly3UNIV 101First Year Seminar1 Hours15
Spring
BIOL 102 General Biology II 3BIOL 112General Biology II Lab1
CHEM 180 Chemical Reactivity I 3CHEM 181Chemical Reactivity I Lab1
MATH 132 
or MATH 162Applied Calculus II 
or Calculus II3CJC 101Criminal Justice in a Global Context3Philosophical Foundational Core  13 Hours17
Year 2
Fall
PHYS 111 College Physics I Lec / Dis 3PHYS 111LCollege Physics Laboratory I1
CHEM 240 Chemical Reactivity II 3CHEM 241Chemical Reactivity II Laboratory1
FRSC 340 Introduction to Forensic Science 3Historical Foundational Core  13Ethics Core  13 Hours17
Spring
PHYS 112 College Physics II Lec/Disc 3PHYS 112LCollege Physics Lab II1
CHEM 260 Quantitative Methods in Chemistry 3CHEM 272Analytical Chemistry Laboratory2
FRSC 341 Forensic Ethics and Professional Practice 3Literary Foundational Core  13Theological Foundational Core  13 Hours18
Year 3
Fall
BIOL 282 Genetics 3BIOL 283Genetics Laboratory1
CHEM 280 Environmental & Chemical Analysis 3FRSC 343Physical Organic Chemistry for Forensic
Science3
FRSC 350 Pattern Evidence I 3FRSC 350LPattern Evidence Lab I1Foreign Language 101  13 Hours17
Spring
BIOL 366 /
CHEM 361Cell Physiology & Biochemistry 3BIOL 366LCell Physiology & Biochemistry Lab 23
STAT 335 Introduction to Biostatistics 3FRSC 342Expert Witness Testimony and Court Room
Demeanor3
Foreign Language 102  13Societal/Cultural Foundation Core  13 Hours18Year 4
FallFRSC 360Forensic Drug Chemistry I3
FRSC 360L Forensic Drug Chemistry Laboratory I 2FRSC 370Forensic Biology3
FRSC 370L Forensic Biology Laboratory 1Artistic Core  13
Literary Tier 2 Core  13Philosophical Tier 2 Core  13 Hours18
SpringFRSC 361 
& 361L  
or FRSC 371 
or ANTH 396Forensic Toxicology I 
or Forensic Molecular Biology Lecture
and Laboratory 
or Internship in Anthropology3
FRSC 390 
or FRSC 394Forensic Science Internship 1,2 
or Forensic Science Research3-4Historical Tier 2 Core  13
Societal/Cultural Tier 2 Core  13Theological Tier 2 Core  13 Hours15-16 Total Hours135-136
1Scheduling of this course is flexible
2BIOL 366L , FRSC 390 , and FRSC 394  satisfy the Engaged Learning
requirements.
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
The Forensic Science Program is dedicated to:
•Provide forensic science students with a solid foundation in the
natural sciences.
•Educate forensic science students in a broad range of forensic
analytical techniques and in the various aspects of forensic science
professional practice and allow students to develop critical thinking
skills required to solve problems encountered in the forensic
sciences.
•Prepare forensic science students for entry-level positions in forensic
science laboratories and graduate/professional schools in the
forensic sciences.  
Global Studies
About Us
The Global Studies Program serves students who wish to achieve a
deeper understanding of other nations, cultures, and peoples in the
modern world. Students majoring or minoring in Global Studies will

--- Page 446 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 477
explore general aspects of the international system from the perspectives
of the academic departments represented in the program. Students will
also examine the histories, cultures, and political systems of various
regions of the world. To facilitate these studies, global studies majors
and minors will develop a level of proﬁciency in a modern language
beyond the general requirement of the College of Arts and Sciences.
The Global Studies Program prepares students for careers in an
increasingly interdependent global environment. Professions that draw
especially heavily on a background in global studies include those in
business, communication, public service, education, journalism, law
and social work. Completing a global studies major or minor also helps
prepare students for graduate studies in global/international affairs.
Undergraduate Programs
•Global Studies (BA)  (p. 478)
•Global Studies/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1219 )
•Global Studies Minor  (p. 482)
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Global Studies (GLST)
GLST 101   Introduction to Global Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course serves as an introduction to the interdisciplinary ﬁeld
of global studies. It provides an overview of the major disciplines
represented in the program, introduces the main regions covered in the
program, and discusses important global issues.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Asian
Studies, European Studies, Global Studies, Islamic World Studies, Latin
American Studies   
Outcomes:
By analyzing various topics in global studies, students will gain an
understanding of the different regions of the world and the ways that
different disciplines contribute to this interdisciplinary ﬁeldGLST 301   Capstone in Global Studies: Directed Readings   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Course requires permission of instructor; GLST will enroll
approved students directly (no self-enrollment or non-GLST advisors);
Course is open only to junior and senior majors and minors   
This course number may be used only exceptionally for a course of study
that a student contracts with a faculty mentor of their choosing and that
is not offered otherwise at Loyola. The contracted course must function
as a way for students to draw together their undergraduate studies in a
"capstone" fashion and in a way that is relevant to the concerns of the
Global Studies Program. Students must arrange this course of study
with their chosen faculty mentor. The faculty mentor should send the
syllabus to the director of global studies at least one month before the
start of the term in which the student plans to undertake their course of
study. Students will complete a very substantial research project or paper
of approximately 20,000 to 25,000 words (about 40-50 double-spaced
pages) that they work on over the course of the entire semester with their
faculty mentor.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will improve their research and writing skills and will acquire an
in-depth knowledge of an issue critical to a comprehensive understanding
of the interdisciplinary ﬁeld of global studies
GLST 302   States and Firms   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the relationship between multinational
corporations and the state. It explores the origin of ﬁrms, as well
as issues such as corruption, tax policy, bailouts, and economic
development. It also examines the development of private military
contractors and their relationship to state security.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the various
relations between multinational corporations and states as well as
private military contractors and states
GLST 303   Technological Change and Society   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores how changes in technology affect society in four
broad areas: its impact on how we communicate, on the workplace, on
regulatory issues surrounding technology ﬁrms, and on humanity itself.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the various
relations between technology and society
GLST 304   Global Civil Society and Social Movements   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on global civil society groups (both advocacy groups
or apolitical) and on social movements that seek to ﬁght injustices.
We discuss a variety of examples of civil society projects ranging
from monitoring government corruption and promoting micro-credit to
organizing transnational protest campaigns.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-GLST 304/SOCL 304   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate a comprehension of the dynamics of global
civil society and social movements, both for cases discussed in class and
to material from outside class

--- Page 447 ---
478  Global Studies (BA)
GLST 305   Globalization and Environmental Sustainability   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course introduces students to social, political and economic factors
that have contributed to globalization, development and their impact
on the environment. It provides students with the background and
conceptual tools to understand global environmental challenges and
questions.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will develop a fundamental knowledge of the study of global
development and environmental challenges and develop analytical
skills to assess the tradeoffs involved in economic development and
environmental sustainability
GLST 306   International Development   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides an interdisciplinary overview of the international
development system and issues related to development in those
countries variously referred to as third world, developing, underdeveloped,
or peripheral countries.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-GLST 306/SOCL 306   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate a fundamental knowledge of the
various factors that are considered to help or hinder development
GLST 370   Internship in Global Studies   (3-6 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Open to all GLST major and minors but requires instructor
permission to enroll   
Students enrolled in this course must secure an internship relevant to
the ﬁeld of global studies. Students not only engage in regular workplace
activities but also attend class meetings, complete writing assignments
reflecting on their internship placements, write a ﬁnal paper, and submit a
ﬁnal evaluation from their workplace supervisor.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Asian
Studies, European Studies, Global Studies, Islamic World Studies, Latin
American Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate awareness of at least one important global
concern or issue as addressed in the internship
GLST 398   Topics in Global Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
This is a variable topics course. Speciﬁc topics vary from semester to
semester.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge of a unique topic in the
interdisciplinary ﬁeld of Global Studies
Global Studies (BA)
The BA in Global Studies (GLST) gives students the opportunity to
examine global issues from the perspective of several academic
disciplines in the humanities and social sciences. While developing an
individual program, a global studies student may choose from a very wide
range of courses drawn from units across the university.
Related Programs
Minor
•Global Studies Minor  (p. 482)Combined
•Global Studies/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1219 )
Curriculum
The curriculum leading to a BA in global studies consists of th irty-three
semester hours of coursework (eleven courses) and the fulﬁllment of an
intermediate-level foreign language proﬁciency requirement. Courses
completed to satisfy the language requirement do not count toward the
thirty-three semester hours of coursework.
The College of Arts and Sciences requires that a minimum of twenty-one
credit hours (seven courses) of any major, including the global studies
major, be unique to that major and hence may not count toward any
other major or minor. The Global Studies Program allows up to nine credit
hours (three courses) to fulﬁll the requirements of the global studies
major and any other individual major or minor. Therefore, students may
count up to four classes total toward the global studies BA and all other
declared majors/minors.
The major in global studies requires students to complete the following
global studies core courses in addition to their global studies elective
courses.
Code Title Hours
GLST 101 Introduction to Global Studies 3ANTH 100Globalization and Local Cultures3
PLSC 102 International Relations in an Age of Globalization 13Select two of the following:  26
GLST 301 Capstone in Global Studies: Directed ReadingsGLST 302States and FirmsGLST 303 Technological Change and SocietyGLST 304Global Civil Society and Social MovementsGLST 305 Globalization and Environmental SustainabilityGLST 306International DevelopmentGLST 398 Topics in Global StudiesGLST 370Internship in Global Studies 3GLST Elective Courses  (p. 478)18Total Hours33
1Note: you can take PLSC 102 International Relations in an Age of
Globalization  and 3 PLSC Electives
2Students are allowed to take additional coursework from this list in
order to fulﬁll GLST elective requirements.
3Internship: note that only 3 credits of GLST 370 Internship in Global
Studies  can count towards the GLST major
Elective Courses
Global Studies elective courses must be tagged with the GLST program
and must include at least two courses that focus on speciﬁc wor ld areas
(Africa, Asia, Europe, Latin America, and the Middle East). However,
students may not take their electives in the same world area. Courses
taken abroad may be substituted for LUC GLST courses only if they are
pre-approved by the director of the GLST program. In addition, elective
coursework must be from at least three departments. No more than three
courses taken from any single department can count for the GLST major.
If a student wishes to concentrate on a particular region (e.g., Africa, Asia,
Europe, Latin America, or the Middle East) within the global studies major,

--- Page 448 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 479
he or she may choose to take up to six GLST electives that focus on the
chosen world area. It is not required, however, that students do this.
Geographic Region:  Africa
Code Title Hours
ANTH 213 Culture in Africa 3FNAR 355Art of Africa3
HIST 213 African History: Themes & Issues 3HIST 342BAfrican History Post-16003
HIST 342M African Music's Influence on American Music 3HONR 210AEncountering Africa3
HONR 210B Encountering Africa 3HONR 210CEncountering Africa3
LITR 219 African Film 3PLSC 340International Relations of Africa3
PLSC 342 African Politics 3
Geographic Region:  Asia
Code Title Hours
ANTH 215 Contemporary Japanese Culture 3ASIA 101Explorations in Asian Studies3
CHIN 341 Modern Chinese Literature in Chinese 3COMM 269Observing China3
COMM 301 Discovering China Through Film 3ENGL 292South Asian Literature and Civilizations3
ENGL 315 South Asian Literatures in English 3ENGL 315CSouth Asian Literature Since 19003
FNAR 357 South Asian Visual Culture 3FNAR 358Chinese Art and Culture3
FNAR 359 Japanese Art and Culture 3HIST 208East Asian History: Themes & Issues3
HIST 208Z Modern Chinese History 3HIST 343Modern South Asia3
HIST 346B Reform & Revolution in China, 1800-1949 3HIST 346CHistory of Christianity in China3
HIST 347A China Since 1949: The People's Republic 3HIST 347CCultural Revolution-China3
HIST 347D Modern Chinese History through Film 3HIST 349AWomen in East Asia3
HIST 388A Vietnam War 3HONR 209BEncountering Asia3
HONR 209C Encountering Asia 3LITR 243South Asian Literature3
LITR 244 Indian Film 3LITR 245Asian Masterpieces3
LITR 287 Topics in Asian Literature 3LITR 290Classical Chinese Literature3
LITR 292 Modern Chinese Fiction 3PHIL 192Chinese Ethics and Asian Values3
PHIL 193 Contemporary Chinese Philosophy 3PHIL 335Asian Philosophy3
PLSC 345 South & Southeast Asian Politics 3PLSC 346East Asian Politics3
SOCL 251 Peoples of China: Their Cultures and Customs 3SOCL 263Political and Social Movements in China3
SOCL 266 Development and Social Change in Modern China 3THEO 299Religions of Asia3
THEO 352 Topics in Buddhism 3
Geographic Region:  Europe
Code Title Hours
ANTH 222 Culture in Contemporary Europe 3FREN 271Main Currents of French Literature & Culture II3
FREN 309 Francophone Literature 3FREN 311French Modernity3
FREN 390 French & Francophone Cultures & Civilizations 3GERM 270Modern German Literature and Culture I3
GERM 271 Modern German Literature and Culture II 3GERM 370German Cinema3
HIST 267A Modern German Culture and Ideas I 3HIST 267BModern German Culture and Ideas II3
HIST 322 Modern France: From Empire to Postcolonial
Nation3HIST 324Italy 19th & 20th Centuries3
HIST 325A The British Empire: From Barbados to Brexit 3HIST 326Ireland: Colony to Nation State3
HIST 327A The Balkans: History, Fiction, Film 3HIST 329CEmpire, Sex, Violence: European Colonial History3
HIST 329N Modern European Nationalism: Myth and Reality 3HIST 330Europe in the Age of Catastrophe, 1900-19453
HIST 330F Fascinating Fascism:  1919 to the Present 3HIST 331AFood, Hunger and Power in the Modern World3
HIST 334B The Holocaust: History and Memory 3HIST 335The Second World War3
HIST 336 Contemporary Europe 1945 to Present 3HIST 337Rise & Fall of Soviet Union3
HIST 337A Women in Russia and Eurasia, 1860-Present 3HIST 338AHistory of European Communism3
HIST 339C Modern Europe and the Arts 3HIST 359CNationalist Politics: A Global Perspective3
HONR 216A Encountering Contemporary Europe 3HONR 216BEncountering Contemporary Europe3
HONR 216C Encountering Contemporary Europe 3ITAL 271Main Currents of Italian Literature II3
ITAL 284 Studies in Italian Film 3ITAL 319Survey of 20th Century Prose3
ITAL 320 Survey of 20th Century Poetry 3ITAL 390Culture & Civilization3
LITR 161 Introduction to Italian Culture 3LITR 200European Masterpieces3
LITR 202 European Novel 3LITR 203European Drama3
LITR 204 European Film 3LITR 221Polish Authors3
LITR 225 Russian Masterpieces 3LITR 230German Masterpieces3
LITR 260 Italian Masterpieces 3

--- Page 449 ---
480  Global Studies (BA)LITR 262Modern Italian Novel3
LITR 264 Italian Film Genre 3LITR 267Italian Film History3
LITR 268 Italy: Cultural History 3LITR 268RItalian Culture: Food & Wine3
LITR 283 Major Authors in Translation 3LITR 291Italian & Italian-American Women Writers3
PLSC 232 Politics of the United Kingdom 3PLSC 347The European Union3
PLSC 348 Soviet & Post-Soviet Politics 3PLSC 349Eastern European Politics3
PLSC 352 Canadian Politics 3PLSC 360Western European Politics3
PLSC 365 Italian Politics & Government 3ROST 382Human Rights: View from Rome3
SOCL 267 Italy Today 3SPAN 271Introduction to Iberian Literature and Culture3
SPAN 311 Generation of 1898 3SPAN 32120th Century Theatre3
SPAN 331 20th Century Poetry 3SPAN 34120th Century Spanish Literature3
SPAN 349 Realism and Naturalism 3SPAN 362History of Hispanic Feminism3
SPAN 363 Borges 3SPAN 366Spanish Cinema3
SPAN 390 Latin American Culture and Civilization 3UNIV 301Ricci Seminar Rome3
Geographic Region:  Latin America
Code Title Hours
ANTH 211 Peoples of Latin America 3ANTH 217Mexican Culture & Heritage3
ANTH 321 Human Rights in Latin America 3ENGL 316CCaribbean Literature in English Since 19003
ENVS 340 Natural History of Belize 3HIST 210Latin American History: Themes & Issues3
HIST 278A Violence Drug Trafﬁcking & Crime in Latin America 3HIST 353Latin America in Recent Times3
HIST 355 The Caribbean & Central America in Colonial/
Modern Times3HIST 356Mexican History-Ancient to Modern Times3
HIST 357 The Mexican Revolution in Popular Imagination 3HIST 358Women in Latin American History3
HONR 208A Encountering Latin America and the Caribbean 3HONR 208BEncountering Latin America and the Caribbean3
LASP 395 Capstone in Latin American Studies 3LITR 211Latina Authors3
PLSC 343 Latin American Politics 3PLSC 344Contemporary Issues in Latin America3
PLSC 351 Latin American International System 3SPAN 271Introduction to Iberian Literature and Culture3
SPAN 363 Borges 3SPAN 370Latin American Poetry3SPAN 380 Latin American Prose Fiction 3SPAN 381Contemporary Spanish-American Novel3
SPAN 385 Caribbean Literature 3SPAN 389Latin American Short Story3
SPAN 390 Latin American Culture and Civilization (Topic: The
Hispanic World)3
Geographic Region:  Middle East
Code Title Hours
ANTH 220 Contemporary Cultures of the Middle East 3HIST 209Islamic History: Themes & Issues3
HIST 300 Topics in History (Topic: Ottoman Empire) 3HIST 341Modern Middle East3
HIST 341B Arab-Israeli Conflict 3HONR 212BEncountering the Middle East3
LITR 238 Arabic Literature in Translation 3PLSC 300DContemporary Political issues in International
Relations3
PLSC 368 Politics of the Middle East 3THEO 350Topics in Islam3
THEO 365 Women, Gender and Embodiment in Islam 3THEO 366Contemporary Islamic Thought and Movements3
General International Studies
Code Title Hours
ANTH 100 Globalization and Local Cultures 3ANTH 104The Human Ecological Footprint3
ANTH 203 Violence, Social Suffering, and Justice 3ANTH 207Economies, Culture, and Development3
ANTH 216 Cultures of Migration 3ANTH 303People and Conservation3
ANTH 305 Violence and Culture 3ANTH 306Anthropology and Human Rights3
ANTH 319 Anthropology of Tourism 3ASIA 101Explorations in Asian Studies3
CJC 336 Political Violence and Crime 3CJC 337 /
PLSC 337Terrorism3
CJC 378 International Criminal Justice 3COMM 272Intercultural Communication3
COMM 278 International Public Relations 3COMM 303Media, Politics, & Propaganda3
ECON 323 International Economics 3ECON 324International Monetary Relations3
ECON 325 Economics of Growth & Development 3ELPS 230Globalization, Education and Childhood3
ENGL 312 Studies in World Literature in English 3ENGL 313Border Literatures3
EXPL 292 International Service Learning 3FINC 355International Finance Management3
FNAR 202 Global Art History: Modern Art 3FNAR 352Islam and Visual Culture3
Any GLST Course (not used in above requirements)Any GLST Transfer Credit (not used in above requirements)

--- Page 450 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 481
GLST 370 Internship in Global Studies 3-6HIST 104Global History Since 15003
HIST 279E Climate and History 3HIST 349Contemporary Global Issues: Historical
Perspectives3
HIST 359 Teaching World History 3HIST 359CNationalist Politics: A Global Perspective3
HIST 359F Genocides in the Modern World 3HIST 359HAnti-Colonial Resistance in the Twentieth Century3
HSM 210 Introduction to Global Healthcare Delivery 3IBUS 201Introduction to International Business3
LITR 280 World Masterpieces in Translation 3LITR 283Major Authors in Translation3
LITR 284 International Film 3LITR 299Comparative Literature3
MARK 363 International Marketing 3PLSC 102International Relations in an Age of Globalization3
PLSC 103 Comparative Politics 3PLSC 204Conflict Management3
PLSC 232 Politics of the United Kingdom 3PLSC 252Capitalism and Its Discontents3
PLSC 300C Contemporary Political Issues: Comparative
Politics (Topic: Cuba Today: Politics & Society)3PLSC 300CContemporary Political Issues: Comparative
Politics (Topic: Contemporary Political Issues)3
PLSC 300D Contemporary Political issues in International
Relations3PLSC 316Politics of Genocide3
PLSC 317 Politics of International Health 3PLSC 325American Foreign Policy3
PLSC 333 Crossing Borders: The Politics of Immigration 3PLSC 337Terrorism3
PLSC 339 Political Ideologies 3PLSC 350Politics of International Economic Relations3
PLSC 353 International Law 3PLSC 354Global Environmental Politics3
PLSC 355C Women and Politics: A Cross-National Perspective 3PLSC 356Intervent in World Politics3
PLSC 358 War, Peace and Politics 3PLSC 358DThe Scientiﬁc Study of War3
PLSC 359 Revolutions 3PLSC 362Politics Developing Societies3
PLSC 363 International Politics 3PLSC 364UN & International Organization3
PLSC 366 Dictatorship 3PLSC 367Model United Nations3
POLS 270 Contemporary Polish Culture in the Original
Language3SOCL 252Global Inequalities3
SOCL 265 Globalization & Society 3SOCL 278Global Health3
THEO 272 Judaism 3THEO 282Hinduism3THEO 295 Islam 3THEO 297Buddhism3
THEO 330 Liberation Theology 3
Portfolio Requirement
All graduating global studies majors must submit during their
ﬁnal semester a portfolio, which should be emailed directly to
chasselmann@luc.edu . These portfolios are not graded at the level of the
individual student but are used instead as part of an annual assessment
of the program. The precise prompts will vary from year to year; however,
students are required to submit the following:
1.a personal statement (300-500 words) describing the most important
knowledge and skills gained as a global studies major as well as the
courses and experiences you have found most helpful;
2.the inclusion of a statement (300-500 words) on the strengths and
weaknesses of the Global Studies Program itself as you see it as well
as any recommendations you would like to see made to the program;
and
3.depending on the year, we might request copies of essays completed
for a global studies class or a short response to an essay prompt. You
will receive an email from the program director approximately two
months before you are set to graduate asking for the portfolio and
letting you know if we need supplemental material.
December graduates must submit their portfolios by December 10th
of their ﬁnal semester; May graduates must submit their portfolios by
April 30th of their ﬁnal semester.  Please note that portfolio submission
prior to graduation is a requirement that is separate from all other global
studies major requirements.
Language Requirement
The language requirement for the major in global studies may be satisﬁed
in any of the following ways:
•Successful completion with a grade of "C" or better of a 104-level
or higher course in one of the accepted modern, foreign languages
offered by the Department of Modern Languages and Literatures.
•Completion of a language proﬁciency examination or the
equivalent, administered by the Department of Modern
Languages and Literatures, demonstrating proﬁciency at the
104 level or higher of a modern, foreign language. Please email
CASLanguageTesting@luc.edu  for information about language
proﬁciency testing.
•Determination by the director of the Global Studies Program, in
consultation with appropriate specialists, that a student has at least
a 104-level reading and writing proﬁciency in a language that is not
taught or tested at Loyola.
Please note that English, American Sign Language, computer languages,
and other US-based languages do not satisfy this requirement.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.

--- Page 451 ---
482  Global Studies Minor
Course Title Hours
Year 1
FallGLST 101Introduction to Global Studies3 Hours3
SpringANTH 100Globalization and Local Cultures3 Hours3
Year 2
FallPLSC 102International Relations in an Age of
Globalization3 Hours3
Spring
GLST 300-level Required Course 3Elective3 Hours6
Year 3
FallElective3Elective3 Hours6
SpringElective3 Hours3
Year 4
Fall
GLST 300-level Required Course 3Elective3 Hours6
SpringElective3 Hours3 Total Hours33
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of the program, global studies majors will be able to do
the following:
•Demonstrate an ability to describe and analyze two
or more important contemporary global
concerns (e.g., the environment, violence, human trafﬁcking, poverty,
child labor)
•Demonstrate geographical, cultural, and/or historical
knowledge of at least two different world regions
(Asia, Africa, South America, Europe, and the Middle East)
•Demonstrate an ability to describe and analyze an aspect of the
modern political system in at least two countries outside of No rth
America
•Demonstrate an ability to describe and analyze the signiﬁcance and
activities of two or more international/global organizations
Global Studies Minor
The minor in Global Studies beneﬁts students who want to engage in a
focused program of coursework in the study of Global Studies, but are
unable to complete the Global Studies major.
Related Programs
Major
•Global Studies (BA)  (p. 478)
Combined
•Global Studies/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1219 )
Curriculum
The curriculum leading to a minor in global studies consists of eighteen
semester hours of coursework (six courses) and the fulﬁllment of a
language proﬁciency requirement. Courses completed to satisfy the
language requirement do not count toward the eighteen semester hours
of coursework.
Of the eighteen hours of coursework leading to a minor in global studies,
students must successfully complete all of the following:
Code Title Hours
Minor RequirementsGLST 1013
Select one of the following:  13GLST 302States and FirmsGLST 303 Technological Change and SocietyGLST 304Global Civil Society and Social MovementsGLST 305 Globalization and Environmental SustainabilityGLST 306International DevelopmentGLST 370 Internship in Global StudiesAt least one general course focusing on various aspects of global
studies3
At least two regional studies courses focusing on Africa, Asia
(including East Asia, South Asia, Southeast Asia), Eastern or Western
Europe, Latin America, or the Middle East. Your regional courses
must focus on at least two different regions of the world.6

--- Page 452 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 483Global studies elective of the student's choice3Total Hours18
1Students are allowed to take additional coursework from this list in
order to fulﬁll GLST elective requirements.
In order to ensure the interdisciplinary character of the program, no
more than two of the six courses taken for the global studies minor
may be from a single academic department. Students may count up to
three of the 300-level global studies courses listed above toward the
global studies minor as these courses are inherently interdisciplinary. A
maximum of two courses may count toward the GLST minor and another
major or minor. No more than three courses total may count for the global
studies minor and all other declared majors/minors.
Regional Studies and Elective Courses
Global Studies elective courses must be tagged with the GLST program
and must include at least two courses that focus on speciﬁc wor ld areas
(Africa, Asia, Europe, Latin America, and the Middle East). However,
students may not take their electives in the same world area. Courses
taken abroad may be substituted for LUC GLST courses only if they
are pre-approved by the director of the GLST program. In addition, for
students who declare the major starting Fall 2015, elective coursework
must be from at least three departments. No more than three courses
taken from any single department can count for the GLST major.
If a student wishes to concentrate on a particular region (e.g., Africa, Asia,
Europe, Latin America, or the Middle East) within the global studies major,
he or she may choose to take up to six GLST electives that focus on the
chosen world area. It is not required, however, that students do this.
Geographic Region:  Africa
Code Title Hours
ANTH 213 Culture in Africa 3FNAR 355Art of Africa3
HIST 213 African History: Themes & Issues 3HIST 342BAfrican History Post-16003
HIST 342M African Music's Influence on American Music 3HONR 210AEncountering Africa3
HONR 210B Encountering Africa 3HONR 210CEncountering Africa3
LITR 219 African Film 3PLSC 340International Relations of Africa3
PLSC 342 African Politics 3
Geographic Region:  Asia
Code Title Hours
ANTH 215 Contemporary Japanese Culture 3ASIA 101Explorations in Asian Studies3
CHIN 341 Modern Chinese Literature in Chinese 3COMM 269Observing China3
COMM 301 Discovering China Through Film 3ENGL 292South Asian Literature and Civilizations3
ENGL 315 South Asian Literatures in English 3ENGL 315CSouth Asian Literature Since 19003
FNAR 357 South Asian Visual Culture 3FNAR 358Chinese Art and Culture3FNAR 359 Japanese Art and Culture 3HIST 208East Asian History: Themes & Issues3
HIST 208Z Modern Chinese History 3HIST 343Modern South Asia3
HIST 346B Reform & Revolution in China, 1800-1949 3HIST 346CHistory of Christianity in China3
HIST 347A China Since 1949: The People's Republic 3HIST 347CCultural Revolution-China3
HIST 347D Modern Chinese History through Film 3HIST 349AWomen in East Asia3
HIST 388A Vietnam War 3HONR 209BEncountering Asia3
HONR 209C Encountering Asia 3LITR 243South Asian Literature3
LITR 244 Indian Film 3LITR 245Asian Masterpieces3
LITR 287 Topics in Asian Literature 3LITR 290Classical Chinese Literature3
LITR 292 Modern Chinese Fiction 3PHIL 192Chinese Ethics and Asian Values3
PHIL 193 Contemporary Chinese Philosophy 3PHIL 335Asian Philosophy3
PLSC 345 South & Southeast Asian Politics 3PLSC 346East Asian Politics3
SOCL 251 Peoples of China: Their Cultures and Customs 3SOCL 263Political and Social Movements in China3
SOCL 266 Development and Social Change in Modern China 3THEO 299Religions of Asia3
THEO 352 Topics in Buddhism 3
Geographic Region:  Europe
Code Title Hours
ANTH 222 Culture in Contemporary Europe 3FREN 271Main Currents of French Literature & Culture II3
FREN 309 Francophone Literature 3FREN 311French Modernity3
FREN 390 French & Francophone Cultures & Civilizations 3GERM 270Modern German Literature and Culture I3
GERM 271 Modern German Literature and Culture II 3GERM 370German Cinema3
HIST 267A Modern German Culture and Ideas I 3HIST 267BModern German Culture and Ideas II3
HIST 322 Modern France: From Empire to Postcolonial
Nation3HIST 324Italy 19th & 20th Centuries3
HIST 325A The British Empire: From Barbados to Brexit 3HIST 326Ireland: Colony to Nation State3
HIST 327A The Balkans: History, Fiction, Film 3HIST 329CEmpire, Sex, Violence: European Colonial History3
HIST 329N Modern European Nationalism: Myth and Reality 3HIST 330Europe in the Age of Catastrophe, 1900-19453
HIST 330F Fascinating Fascism:  1919 to the Present 3HIST 331AFood, Hunger and Power in the Modern World3

--- Page 453 ---
484  Global Studies Minor
HIST 334B The Holocaust: History and Memory 3HIST 335The Second World War3
HIST 336 Contemporary Europe 1945 to Present 3HIST 337Rise & Fall of Soviet Union3
HIST 337A Women in Russia and Eurasia, 1860-Present 3HIST 338AHistory of European Communism3
HIST 339C Modern Europe and the Arts 3HIST 359CNationalist Politics: A Global Perspective3
HONR 216A Encountering Contemporary Europe 3HONR 216BEncountering Contemporary Europe3
HONR 216C Encountering Contemporary Europe 3ITAL 271Main Currents of Italian Literature II3
ITAL 284 Studies in Italian Film 3ITAL 319Survey of 20th Century Prose3
ITAL 320 Survey of 20th Century Poetry 3ITAL 390Culture & Civilization3
LITR 161 Introduction to Italian Culture 3LITR 200European Masterpieces3
LITR 202 European Novel 3LITR 203European Drama3
LITR 204 European Film 3LITR 221Polish Authors3
LITR 225 Russian Masterpieces 3LITR 230German Masterpieces3
LITR 260 Italian Masterpieces 3LITR 262Modern Italian Novel3
LITR 264 Italian Film Genre 3LITR 267Italian Film History3
LITR 268 Italy: Cultural History 3LITR 268RItalian Culture: Food & Wine3
LITR 283 Major Authors in Translation 3LITR 291Italian & Italian-American Women Writers3
PLSC 232 Politics of the United Kingdom 3PLSC 347The European Union3
PLSC 348 Soviet & Post-Soviet Politics 3PLSC 349Eastern European Politics3
PLSC 352 Canadian Politics 3PLSC 360Western European Politics3
PLSC 365 Italian Politics & Government 3ROST 382Human Rights: View from Rome3
SOCL 267 Italy Today 3SPAN 271Introduction to Iberian Literature and Culture3
SPAN 311 Generation of 1898 3SPAN 32120th Century Theatre3
SPAN 331 20th Century Poetry 3SPAN 34120th Century Spanish Literature3
SPAN 349 Realism and Naturalism 3SPAN 362History of Hispanic Feminism3
SPAN 363 Borges 3SPAN 366Spanish Cinema3
SPAN 390 Latin American Culture and Civilization 3UNIV 301Ricci Seminar Rome3Geographic Region:  Latin America
Code Title Hours
ANTH 211 Peoples of Latin America 3ANTH 217Mexican Culture & Heritage3
ANTH 321 Human Rights in Latin America 3ENGL 316CCaribbean Literature in English Since 19003
ENVS 340 Natural History of Belize 3HIST 210Latin American History: Themes & Issues3
HIST 278A Violence Drug Trafﬁcking & Crime in Latin America 3HIST 353Latin America in Recent Times3
HIST 355 The Caribbean & Central America in Colonial/
Modern Times3HIST 356Mexican History-Ancient to Modern Times3
HIST 357 The Mexican Revolution in Popular Imagination 3HIST 358Women in Latin American History3
HONR 208A Encountering Latin America and the Caribbean 3HONR 208BEncountering Latin America and the Caribbean3
LASP 395 Capstone in Latin American Studies 3LITR 211Latina Authors3
PLSC 343 Latin American Politics 3PLSC 344Contemporary Issues in Latin America3
PLSC 351 Latin American International System 3SPAN 271Introduction to Iberian Literature and Culture3
SPAN 363 Borges 3SPAN 370Latin American Poetry3
SPAN 380 Latin American Prose Fiction 3SPAN 381Contemporary Spanish-American Novel3
SPAN 385 Caribbean Literature 3SPAN 389Latin American Short Story3
SPAN 390 Latin American Culture and Civilization (Topic: The
Hispanic World)3
Geographic Region:  Middle East
Code Title Hours
ANTH 220 Contemporary Cultures of the Middle East 3HIST 209Islamic History: Themes & Issues3
HIST 300 Topics in History (Topic: Ottoman Empire) 3HIST 341Modern Middle East3
HIST 341B Arab-Israeli Conflict 3HONR 212BEncountering the Middle East3
LITR 238 Arabic Literature in Translation 3PLSC 300DContemporary Political issues in International
Relations3
PLSC 368 Politics of the Middle East 3THEO 350Topics in Islam3
THEO 365 Women, Gender and Embodiment in Islam 3THEO 366Contemporary Islamic Thought and Movements3
General International Studies
Code Title Hours
ANTH 100 Globalization and Local Cultures 3ANTH 104The Human Ecological Footprint3
ANTH 203 Violence, Social Suffering, and Justice 3ANTH 207Economies, Culture, and Development3

--- Page 454 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 485
ANTH 216 Cultures of Migration 3ANTH 303People and Conservation3
ANTH 305 Violence and Culture 3ANTH 306Anthropology and Human Rights3
ANTH 319 Anthropology of Tourism 3ASIA 101Explorations in Asian Studies3
CJC 336 Political Violence and Crime 3CJC 337 /
PLSC 337Terrorism3
CJC 378 International Criminal Justice 3COMM 272Intercultural Communication3
COMM 278 International Public Relations 3COMM 303Media, Politics, & Propaganda3
ECON 323 International Economics 3ECON 324International Monetary Relations3
ECON 325 Economics of Growth & Development 3ELPS 230Globalization, Education and Childhood3
ENGL 312 Studies in World Literature in English 3ENGL 313Border Literatures3
EXPL 292 International Service Learning 3FINC 355International Finance Management3
FNAR 202 Global Art History: Modern Art 3FNAR 352Islam and Visual Culture3
Any GLST Course (not used in above requirements)Any GLST Transfer Credit (not used in above requirements)GLST 370 Internship in Global Studies 3-6HIST 104Global History Since 15003
HIST 279E Climate and History 3HIST 349Contemporary Global Issues: Historical
Perspectives3
HIST 359 Teaching World History 3HIST 359CNationalist Politics: A Global Perspective3
HIST 359F Genocides in the Modern World 3HIST 359HAnti-Colonial Resistance in the Twentieth Century3
HSM 210 Introduction to Global Healthcare Delivery 3IBUS 201Introduction to International Business3
IBUS 315 International Management 3LITR 280World Masterpieces in Translation3
LITR 283 Major Authors in Translation 3LITR 284International Film3
LITR 299 Comparative Literature 3MARK 363International Marketing3
PLSC 102 International Relations in an Age of Globalization 3PLSC 103Comparative Politics3
PLSC 204 Conflict Management 3PLSC 232Politics of the United Kingdom3
PLSC 252 Capitalism and Its Discontents 3PLSC 300CContemporary Political Issues: Comparative
Politics (Topic: Cuba Today: Politics & Society)3
PLSC 300C Contemporary Political Issues: Comparative
Politics (Topic: Contemporary Political Issues)3PLSC 300DContemporary Political issues in International
Relations3PLSC 316 Politics of Genocide 3PLSC 317Politics of International Health3
PLSC 325 American Foreign Policy 3PLSC 333Crossing Borders: The Politics of Immigration3
PLSC 337 Terrorism 3PLSC 339Political Ideologies3
PLSC 350 Politics of International Economic Relations 3PLSC 353International Law3
PLSC 354 Global Environmental Politics 3PLSC 355CWomen and Politics: A Cross-National Perspective3
PLSC 356 Intervent in World Politics 3PLSC 358War, Peace and Politics3
PLSC 358D The Scientiﬁc Study of War 3PLSC 359Revolutions3
PLSC 362 Politics Developing Societies 3PLSC 363International Politics3
PLSC 364 UN & International Organization 3PLSC 366Dictatorship3
PLSC 367 Model United Nations 3POLS 270Contemporary Polish Culture in the Original
Language3
SOCL 252 Global Inequalities 3SOCL 265Globalization & Society3
SOCL 278 Global Health 3THEO 272Judaism3
THEO 282 Hinduism 3THEO 295Islam3
THEO 297 Buddhism 3THEO 330Liberation Theology3
Language Requirement
The language requirement for the minor in global studies may be satisﬁed
in any of the following ways:
•Successful completion with a grade of "C" or better of three or
more years of high school instruction in the same modern foreign
language.  
•Successful completion with a grade of "C" or better of a 103-level
or higher course in one of the accepted languages offered by the
Department of Modern Languages and Literatures.
•Completion of a language proﬁciency examination or the equivalent,
administered by the Department of Modern Languages and
Literatures, demonstrating proﬁciency at the 103 level or higher. 
Please email CASLanguageTesting@luc.edu  for information about
language proﬁciency exams.
•Determination by the director of the Global Studies Program, in
consultation with appropriate specialists, that a student has at least
a 103-level reading and writing proﬁciency in a language that is not
taught or tested at Loyola.
Please note that English, American Sign Language, computer languages,
and other US-based languages do not satisfy this requirement.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of

--- Page 455 ---
486  History
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Fulﬁllment of the required language proﬁciency is not included below as
those courses do not count toward the credit hours of the minor.  Courses
must be taken or waived by placement examination before completion of
the minor.
Course Title Hours
Year One
Semester IGLST 101Introduction to Global Studies3 Hours3
Semester IIGeneral Global Studies Course3 Hours3
Year Two
Semester IIIGLST 300-level Required Course3 Hours3
Semester IVRegional Studies Course #13 Hours3
Year Three
Semester VRegional Studies Course #23 Hours3
Semester VIElective3 Hours3 Total Hours18
Declaring a Minor in Global Studies
Please use LOCUS to declare a minor. We encourage you to also meet
with the global studies director to discuss program requirements, career
goals, and internship options.
Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of the program, global studies minors will be able to do
the following:
•Demonstrate an ability to describe and analyze some important
contemporary global concerns (e.g., the environment, violence,
human trafﬁcking, poverty, child labor)
•Demonstrate geographical and historical knowledge of different world
regions (Asia, Africa, South America, Europe, and the Middle East)
•Demonstrate an ability to describe and analyze important elements of
some non-US cultures
•Demonstrate an ability to describe and analyze the modern political
system of at least one country outside of North AmericaHistory
Overview
History Department faculty are engaged with wide-ranging ﬁelds
of history across the globe, wrestling with the human past in all its
complexity and contingency. Our curriculum is designed to develop a
deep understanding of that past and to provide students with insight
into the world in which they live through a perspective of change over
time. History courses include a consideration of ideas and value systems
in the past, enhancing students' understanding of both their own and
other cultures in the present. At the same time, our curriculum teaches
historical writing, analysis,  and research as vital skills, and it fosters an
appreciation of historical prose as a distinctive form of literature.
A History major prepares students to be critical thinkers ready for a wide
range of careers and graduate programs.  History majors thrive in careers
in law, education, business, government, academia, and other ﬁelds that
value the ability to ask broad questions, research speciﬁc answers, and
craft compelling narratives.
Undergraduate Programs
•History (BA)  (p. 503)
•History (BA/MA)  (p. 1240 )
•History/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1245 )
•History Minor  (p. 506)
•Honors in History  (p. 507)
History Department Policies
Double Dipping Policy
The History Department's policy on 'double dipping', or having courses
count toward more than one major or minor, is below; it is consistent with
the general policy of the College of Arts and Sciences.
1.Students may not major and minor in the same discipline.
2.Majors: Not less than 21 credit hours in the individual student’s
transcript must be unique to each major; that is, the courses in
question are considered as actually fulﬁlling requirements of one
major, not of more than one major.
3.Minors and interdisciplinary minors: not less than 8 credit hours in
the individual student’s transcript must be unique to each minor;
that is, the courses in question are considered as actually fulﬁlling
requirements of one minor, not of more than one minor or major.
4.General exceptions to Rules 2 and 3 will be made if approved by
the chairs/directors of the department(s)/program(s) housing each
affected major and minor. A list of standing general exceptions will be
maintained by the Dean's ofﬁce.
5.Individual student exceptions may be made in appropriate cases by
department chairs and program directors.
6.Departments and Programs may enforce stricter double-dipping
policies than those stated above, which also should be provided to
the Dean’s Ofﬁce.
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.

--- Page 456 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 487
History (HIST)
HIST 101   Culture, Power and Identity: Western Ideas & Institutions to
17th Century   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course traces the early development of Western ideas and
institutions from the ancient Near East; Greece and Rome; the medieval
civilization(s); to the European Renaissance and Reformation.
Knowledge Area:  Foundational Historical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST101/CATH101/ACHIS101   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of history as a discipline; be able
to place Judaism, Christianity, and Islam in historical context; explain
the expansion of the West; and develop their critical thinking and
communications skills
HIST 102   Culture, Power and Identity: Western Ideas & Institutions from
17th Century   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course traces the development of Western ideas and institutions and
their global impact from the seventeenth century to the present.
Knowledge Area:  Foundational Historical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Course equivalencies:  ACHIS 102 / HIST 102   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of history as a discipline, develop
critical thinking skills based on historical knowledge about th e key
people, places, and events that shaped the modern world, and hone their
communication skills
HIST 103   American Pluralism   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to the origins, development and structure
of the United States as a pluralistic and multiracial society f rom 1609 to
the present.
Knowledge Area:  Foundational Historical Knowledge   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of history as a discipline,
demonstrate historical knowledge, draw links between the American
experience and national identities, and develop critical thinking and
communication skills
HIST 104   Global History Since 1500   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course deals with the emergence of the modern world, including
such topics as the expansion and intensiﬁcation of cross-cultural
interaction; imperialism, colonialism, and nationalism; the spread of
information; capitalism, industrialism, and popular sovereignty; race and
ethnicity, gender, and socio-economic status.
Knowledge Area:  Foundational Historical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  HIST / ACHIS 104   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of history as a discipline; Evaluate
and explain the forces of historical continuity and change; Demonstrate
how the encounters/changes between and among societies produced the
world we have today; Analyze and discuss the signiﬁcance of primary and
secondary sources and how they relate to the history under discussion
HIST 205   Modern Western Civilization: Social Sciences in Context   (3
Credit Hours)   
An introduction to history as a discipline and an analysis of the history of
Western civilization since the 17th century that emphasizes the contexts
from which emerged the concepts of the social sciences and their related
value systems.HIST 208   East Asian History: Themes & Issues   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  HIST 101, HIST 102, HIST 103, HIST 104, or equivalent;
please check requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course explores the roles and contributions of China, Japan, and
Korea from the sixteenth century to the present tracing such themes
as nationalism, capitalism, socialism, imperialism, war, peace, race, and
gender struggles.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Historical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies, Japanese Language
and Culture   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST108/ASIA108/INTS108   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an ability to evaluate and explain the forces
of historical continuity and change; understand the relationships among
historical events, cultures and social forces; analyze and discuss the
signiﬁcance of primary and secondary sources
HIST 208X   Pre-Modern Chinese History   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course starts with the formative periods of Chinese civilization from
the Neolithic era and ends with the Opium War and the collapse of the
Manchu Qing Empire in 1911. This course will provide students with an
understanding of modern-day China by looking at China's dynamic and
multilayered past.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Historical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Chinese Language & Culture   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST342A/ASIA342A   
Outcomes:
Students will learn to: situate major historical events in China's early
history in their proper geographical, chronological, and thematic context;
and use primary and secondary sources to construct interpretations of
historical problems and events
HIST 208Z   Modern Chinese History   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course is speciﬁcally designed for foreign students studying in
Beijing with the objective of enabling them to understand the ongoing
social, economic and political trends which have roots in the past. The
time period studied will span from the end of the 19th century through
the 20th century.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Historical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Chinese Language & Culture   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST346A/ASIA346A/INTS346A   
Outcomes:
students will learn to situate major historical events such as the May
Fourth Movement in their proper geographical, chronological, and
thematic context; and recognize the extent to which history is at the core
of current Chinese leaders' speeches, policy making, and rule making
HIST 209   Survey of Islamic History   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  HIST 101, HIST 102, HIST 103, HIST 104, or equivalent;
please check requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions   
The course will introduce the historical development of Islamic
civilization and the formation of Muslim social and political institutions
from the 7th century to the present.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Historical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Arabic
Language and Culture, Asian Studies, Global Studies, Islamic World
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  HIST/ASIA/IWS/INTS109/AFR111   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge of the historical
development and diversity of Islamic beliefs, practices, and institutions in
varied regional contexts and historical periods

--- Page 457 ---
488  History
HIST 210   Latin American History: Themes & Issues   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  HIST 101, HIST 102, HIST 103, HIST 104, or equivalent;
please check requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course explores the formation of modern Latin America by
examining the region as a global nexus where ideologies, cultures,
peoples, and political entities have conjoined and clashed from the
ﬁfteenth century to the present. Demonstrate and understanding of
the relationships among historical events, culture and social forces.
Differentiate between students' values and ways of understanding the
world & those of other cultures.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Historical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Global
Studies, Latin American Studies   
Outcomes:
Demonstrate and ability to evaluate and explain forces of historical
continuity and change; Demonstrate and understanding of the
relationships among historical events, culture and social forces;
Differentiate between students' values and ways of understanding the
world & those of other cultures
HIST 211   US History to 1865: Themes & Issues   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  HIST 101, HIST 102, HIST 103, HIST 104, or equivalent;
please check requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course is an introduction to the history of the United States from the
colonial era through the Civil War.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Historical Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  HIST201/HIST111/ACHIS201   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of Native American
societies, the impact of European colonization, the creation and evolution
of democratic institutions in a multicultural society, the geographic
expansion of the United States, and the impact of slavery
HIST 212   US History since 1865: Themes & Issues   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  HIST 101, HIST 102, HIST 103, HIST 104, or equivalent;
please check requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course is an introduction to the history of the United States from the
Civil War to the present.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Historical Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  HIST202/HIST112/ACHIS202   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of how the United States
became a modern industrial society, the emergence and evolution of the
modern welfare state, the rise of the United States as a global power, and
the impact of controversies over civil rights and liberties on American
society
HIST 213   African History: Themes & Issues   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  HIST 101, HIST 102, HIST 103, HIST 104, or equivalent;
please check requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course surveys the history of Africa from dynastic Egypt to
post-colonialism. The primary focus of this class is to examine the
interactions African peoples had with non-Africans from the 15th century
to the present. Engage communication skills and sensitivities. Possess a
heightened understanding of diversity in the world.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Historical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Global
Studies, Islamic World Studies   
Outcomes:
Engage in critical thinking skills and disposition; Engage communication
skills and sensitivities; Possess a heightened understanding of diversity
in the worldHIST 253A   Barbarians and the Fall of the Roman Empire   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course examines the interaction between Romans and the so-called
'barbarians' such as the Goths, Huns, Slavs, and Arabs from the 2nd to
the 7th centuries, with a focus on how new archaeological and skeletal
data is changing our understanding of the barbarians.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Italian Studies, Medieval
Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will study the role of neighboring peoples in the collapse of
the Roman Empire; interpret archaeological data; compare receptions of
immigrants and refugees in the ancient and modern world
HIST 254A   The Vikings   (3 Credit Hours)   
The Vikings are popularly thought of as invaders, marauders, destroyers
of civilized peace. However, recent research has focused on their society,
culture, accomplishments and contributions in a much more positive
sense.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Medieval Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST334/MSTU326   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of the impact of the Vikings
on European development; a knowledge of historiographical issues
concerning the Vikings; and awareness of various types of primary
sources
HIST 257A   Witchcraft and Science in Pre-Modern Europe   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course will trace the history of medieval and early modern ideas
about nature, magic, demonology, and witchcraft, exploring the history of
reason and rationality, elite and popular culture, persecution and society,
and the intersections between Magic, Science, and Witchcraft.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Medieval Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will understand connections between witchcraft and popular
religions; the gendering of witches; the political and economic aspects of
witch trials; and modern portrayals of witches in popular media
HIST 258A   Blood, Heresy, and Treason: The Tudors and Stuarts   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course covers the most crucial period in the history of England,
encompassing the Reformation, The Tudors, the Civil War, the Glorious
Revolution, and the rise of Britain as a great power. Major ﬁgures featured
include Richard III, Henry VIII, Thomas More, Elizabeth I, Shakespeare,
Oliver Cromwell, and Charles II. Students will confront developments
signiﬁcant not just for the British Isles, but across the globe for centuries.
Students will hone their critical thinking skills through the analysis of
historical evidence.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
HIST 265A   The First World War   (3 Credit Hours)   
World War I is arguably the greatest watershed separating us from our
pre-modern past. This course proposes to explore the causes, campaigns
consequences, and cultural legacies of the war. Students will be required
to read eyewitness accounts and memoirs, and view ﬁlms that assess
the war's impact on world civilization. Students will learn about the First
World War by engaging with primary accounts by combatants and non-
combatants. Students will hone their critical thinking skills t hrough the
analysis of historical evidence.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   

--- Page 458 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 489
HIST 267A   Modern German Culture and Ideas I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will investigate intellectual and cultural responses to major
events of nineteenth-century German history, including the Napoleonic
Wars, the Restoration, the Revolution of 1848, the uniﬁcation of Germany,
the German Empire under Bismarck and Wilhelm II, and events leading to
the First World War.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, German Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST321A/INTS321A   
Outcomes:
The student will be able to connect German cultural life to political and
social developments, and be able to identify intellectual currents such as
Romantic Germany, Idealist Germany, and Dionysian Germany
HIST 267B   Modern German Culture and Ideas II   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will cover the major phases of modern German history:
Wilhelmine Germany, Volkish Germany, Germany in the First World War,
Weimar Germany, National Socialist Germany, Germany in the Second
World War, Post-War West Germany, East Germany, and Reuniﬁcation.
While setting forth the background of political and social developments,
we will carefully consider responses to these issues by leaders in German
intellectual and cultural life.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, German Studies, Global
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST336/INTS336   
Outcomes:
Students will apprehend the role of Germany in World War I; the turn
to the Weimar Republic; the Rise and Fall of National Socialism; the
emergence of two Germanies as a consequence of defeat in World War II;
reuniﬁcation in 1989; and cultural responses to these developments
HIST 275A   The Silk Roads: Global Trade, Culture, & Politics   (3 Credit
Hours)   
The course will cover: exchanges between nomad and sedentary
populations in East Asia and the flourishing of information routes to
modern day Mongolia, Afghanistan, India, Greece and Rome; interactions
with European powers, concepts of colonialism, imperialism, and the
emergence of 20th century world wars; contemporary geo-political
challenges in the region.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Understand diversity in the World from a historical, political, and
economic point of view; familiarize oneself with the relations between
Asia and the West; highlight differences, similarities and reciprocal
influences
HIST 278A   Violence Drug Trafﬁcking & Crime in Latin America   (3 Credit
Hours)   
The aim of this course is to examine the historical factors behind Latin
America's contemporary security crisis. With a particular focus on the
region's process of modernization, state building and democratization,
the course examines the linkages between political and criminal, as well
as between past and present forms of violence. Students will be able to
demonstrate an understanding of the main institutional, cultural, and
political reasons behind the prevalence of violence and crime in the Latin
American region.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Latin American Studies   HIST 279C   History of Computing   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will teach students about the history of computing from the
development of number systems and arithmetic, through calculating
and computing machines, to advanced communication technology via
the Internet. The History of Computing will foster historical awareness
about the ongoing relationships between social organization, intellectual
climate, and technological innovation. Students will attain computer
science literacy while studying core historical concepts. They will learn
the background of the computing discipline, which plays a signiﬁcant role
in modern human experience.
Course equivalencies:  X - COMP 111 / HIST 279C   
HIST 279E   Climate and History   (3 Credit Hours)   
Explores the role of climate in history, from the emergence of homo
sapiens to recent anthropogenic climate change. Major topics include
the social impact of climate variability, sources of resilience, origins of
scientiﬁc knowledge, and the use of historical knowledge in the  present.
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST279E/ ENVS279   
Outcomes:
Students will analyze examples of climate shaping history, learn different
ways that scholars have treated this relationship, and reflect on how this
knowledge might be useful today
HIST 280A   Pirates and Sailors in the Revolutionary Atlantic   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Moving beyond seafaring lore and legend, this course places the history
of pirates and sailors in the context of "Atlantic history. " Students
will explore how organized conquests and trading ventures led to the
formation of the ﬁrst British empire and the expansion of commercial
networks around the Atlantic and beyond.
Outcomes:
Course prepares students to confront the way political and economic
power is exercised, justiﬁed, questioned, and resisted during periods of
rapid, global capitalist expansion
HIST 290A   History of Sexuality in the United States   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides a historical introduction to sexual behaviors and
attitudes in the United States from the early American period to the
present. The primary emphasis concerns the impact of social and
political change on sexual norms and behavior.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST392/WOST/WSGS320   
Outcomes:
The course enables students to comprehend the evolving boundaries of
sexual behavior and the historical transformations of the family, sexuality,
gender, and personal identity in the United States
HIST 291A   American Icons: Heroes, Images, Ideas   (3 Credit Hours)   
We explore US history through Iconic photographs, movies, artworks
and essays. For example, the ﬁlm "To Kill a Mockingbird, " allows us to
delineate the image of race, class and family in the South during the
Great Depression, even as the ﬁlm opens up Hollywood's role in shaping
popular ideologies. Learn about 20th-century US history, including the
Great Depression, Civil Rights Movement, and Cold War; develop writing
and discussion skills; learn about the relationship between history and
memory.

--- Page 459 ---
490  History
HIST 297E   North American Environmental History   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course surveys the environment and environmentalism in United
States history, from the transformation of New England into a farm
ecology, the expansion of the cotton South, the settlement of the West, to
the rise of industrial cities, suburban sprawl, and the globalization of the
economy.
Course equivalencies:  X-ENVS297/HIST297E   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate historical knowledge of
environmental thought and ecological science, to draw links between
environmental concerns and public policies, and to develop critical
thinking and communication skills
HIST 298A   History and the Public: Intro to Public History   (3 Credit
Hours)   
History and the Public explores the ﬁeld of public history with special
emphasis on the theory, methods, practice, ethics, and controversies
faced when preserving or presenting history outside of a formal
classroom environment.
Outcomes:
Appreciate how public historians shape public perceptions of the past
and how public perceptions of the past shape public history; appreciate
the diverse areas of historical practice; enhance teamwork skills
HIST 299   Historical Methods   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  12 hours in HIST   
This course studies the ways historians arrive at their interpretation
of events. This is accomplished through a history of historical writing
or through a special selected topic that illustrates the use of different
methods by past and present historians. Students are expected to take
this course after completing their four introductory courses for the major.
Outcomes:
students will understand that history is not a set of facts but a discipline
that depends on competing paradigms and the ongoing interpretation of
primary sources
HIST 300   Topics in History   (3 Credit Hours)   
Special topics or new approaches of current interest to the instructor.
They may be used, like all other 300-level courses, to fulﬁll the history
major distribution requirements. The title of each Topics course,
specifying date and/or area, will indicate which distribution requirement
it fulﬁlls within the history major. Students can take HIST 300 multiple
times.
HIST 300A   Topics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Special topics or new approaches of current interest to the instructor.
This course counts as a 300-level history elective. Students may repeat
the course for credit when the topic changes.
Outcomes:
Students will gain familiarity with the topic; the ability to m ake
connections between secondary and primary sources; and the capacity
to think critically about the ways that historians have approached major
issues
HIST 300B   Topics in Premodern History   (3 Credit Hours)   
Special topics or new approaches of current interest to the instructor.
This course may be used to fulﬁll the history major distribution
requirement in 300-Level Pre-1700 European History or may count as
a 300-Level history elective. Students may repeat the course for credit
when the topic changes.
Outcomes:
Students will gain familiarity with the topic; the ability to m ake
connections between secondary and primary sources; and the capacity
to think critically about the ways that historians have approached major
issuesHIST 300C   Topics in European History (Post-1700)   (3 Credit Hours)   
Special topics or new approaches of current interest to the instructor.
This course may be used to fulﬁll the history major distribution
requirement in 300-Level Post-1700 European History or may count as
a 300-Level history elective. Students may repeat the course for credit
when the topic changes.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain familiarity with the topic; the ability to m ake
connections between secondary and primary sources; and the capacity
to think critically about the ways that historians have approached major
issues
HIST 300D   Topics in U.S. History   (3 Credit Hours)   
Special topics or new approaches of current interest to the instructor.
This course may be used to fulﬁll the history major distribution
requirement in 300-level U.S. history or may count as a 300-level history
elective. Students may repeat the course for credit when the topic
changes.
Outcomes:
Students will gain familiarity with the topic; the ability to m ake
connections between secondary and primary sources; and the capacity
to think critically about the ways that historians have approached major
issues
HIST 300E   Topics in World History   (3 Credit Hours)   
Special topics or new approaches of current interest to the instructor.
This course may be used to fulﬁll the history major distribution
requirement for a 300-level course in the history of Africa, Asia, Latin
America, or the Middle East or may count as a 300-level history elective.
Students may repeat the course for credit when the topic changes.
Outcomes:
Students will gain familiarity with the topic; the ability to m ake
connections between secondary and primary sources; and the capacity
to think critically about the ways that historians have approached major
issues
HIST 301   Plagues: The Black Death and Other Pandemics   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course examines some of the worst pandemics ever to strike
humanity, starting with the outbreaks of smallpox and bubonic in the
ﬁnal centuries of the Roman Empire, the devastating Black Death of the
14th century, and the diseases that destroyed the native Americans in the
wake of Columbus's voyages.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST301/ESP 304   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of: the role of poverty, nutrition,
and population in epidemics; state, church, or community responses to
epidemics; how science has changed the history of disease
HIST 302   History of Western Education   (3 Credit Hours)   
History of Western Education. (ELPS 310)
Course equivalencies:  X-ELPS301/HIST302   
HIST 303   Pre-Industrial City in Europe   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course traces urban development from late antiquity to the early
modern period.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Medieval Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST303/MSTU324   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the origins and
chronology of European town planning and development; and make
comparisons with Islamic and Asian cities

--- Page 460 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 491
HIST 307   Greece to Alexander the Great   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores ancient Greek history, society and culture, from the
Bronze Age through the period of Classical Greece ending with Alexander
and his empire.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-CLST309/HIST307   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to evaluate and interpret different types of sources
critically and explain how these affect our understanding of the ancient
Greeks
HIST 308A   History of Rome to Constantine   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course surveys ancient Roman history, with a focus on Rome's
conquest of the Mediterranean, the civil wars that ended the Roman
Republic, the good and bad emperors of the Principate, and the
conversion of Constantine to Christianity.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-CLST308/HIST308/ROST308   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the interrelationship among political, social,
economic, and cultural developments and develop their research and
writing skills
HIST 308B   Pompeii and Herculaneum   (3 Credit Hours)   
The two best known Roman towns - Pompeii and Herculaneum - whose
remains were preserved by the eruption of Mt. Vesuvius in 79 CE - will
serve as a microcosm for understanding Roman society.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Italian Studies   
Course equivalencies:  HIST328/CLST328/ANTH328   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of how recent archaeological
discoveries have changed our view of Pompeii and Herculaneum and
learn to "read" such things as dining and bathing rituals, gladiator games,
and public and private architecture to gain insight into the structures of
Roman social and cultural life
HIST 308C   History of Early Christianity   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the history of Christian communities and beliefs
from their emergence in Jewish Palestine to the legalization of that
religion in the Late Antique period. Students will gain familiarity with the
diversity of early Christian belief, the interaction with the Roman imperial
government, the evangelization and spread of Christianity both within the
Roman Empire and outside it, the impact of Christianity on Roman social
and family life, and the birth of monasticism.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST309/CATH309   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to evaluate the impact of discoveries such as the
Dead Sea Scrolls and the Nag Hammadi library on the history of early
Christianity; appreciate the extraordinary diversity of early Christianity;
understand why Christianity was seen as a threat to Roman family life;
improve their research, writing, and oral presentation skills; improve their
critical reading skills of both secondary and primary sourcesHIST 308D   Transformations of Rome in Late Antiquity   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the City of Rome itself from the third century up
to the reign of Charlemagne. It demonstrates that this period was a time
of gradual transformation and continuity. Both literary sources and the
archaeology and epigraphy of the City shall be combined to show that
barbarian invasions did not destroy the walls of Rome, and that the arrival
of Christianity did not cause the fall of classical culture.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, German Studies   
Course equivalencies:  HIST 339/CLST 318   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the working
of historical mechanisms, evaluate and critically analyze this historical
period
HIST 309   Shipwreck Archaeology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students study how the technology of scuba diving combined with
scientiﬁc archaeology has created a new discipline of shipwreck
archaeology since the 1960s. They follow the history of the discipline
and explore shipwrecks from Bronze Age Greece to nineteenth-century
Chicago. They synthesize the research and conclusions of nautical
archaeologists worldwide and organize those ﬁndings for presentation
to a broader public in the coherent and imaginative form of their own
Museum.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Medieval Studies   
Course equivalencies:  XHIST324MSTU330ANTH347CLST324   
Outcomes:
Students understand the importance of vessels conserved at Skuldelev,
Lake Nemi and Uluburun for tracing the development of commerce and
technology among the Vikings, the Romans, and the Syro-Palestinians of
the Levant
HIST 310   The Middle Ages   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines European, Islamic and Byzantine society and
culture in the Middle Ages.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, German Studies, Medieval
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST310/MSTU328/CATH310   
Outcomes:
Students will learn of the Middle Ages, including relations between
religious and political institutions; cultural developments; the rise of
towns; reactions to the Black Death and the Hundred Years War
HIST 310A   Medieval World 1100-1500   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines European society and culture in the later Middle
Ages.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, German Studies, Medieval
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  HIST311/MSTU332/CATH311   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of new forms of schools and
learning; the origins of national monarchies; the crusades; chivalry;
courtly love and the role of women; the rise of towns; church and state
relations; the Black Death and the Hundred Years War
HIST 310B   Medieval Culture   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores the three cultures of the Middle Ages - Islam,
Byzantium, and Europe, with particular emphasis on art, music, and
literature.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, German Studies   
Outcomes:
students will understand how these cultures developed through shared
roots, mutual influence, interaction and reaction; be able to interpret
artistic expression and material culture in historical context; and gain skill
in the analysis of primary sources

--- Page 461 ---
492  History
HIST 310C   Medieval Women   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores the lives of medieval women from 500-1500
CE. While paying close attention to medieval ideas about gender and
sexuality, students will examine experiences of medieval women from a
range of backgrounds and social statuses as well as male and female
roles in family life, religion, and politics.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Medieval Studies, Women & Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will understand resources concerning medieval women
while gaining appreciation for the need to challenge historical "master
narratives" that frequently ignore or minimize the experiences and roles
of women
HIST 310D   Medieval Popular Religion   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will explore the "lived" religious experience of medieval
people through their actions, behaviors and artifacts. "Folk" (or pagan)
survivals, pilgrimage, music and arts, devotion to saints, magical beliefs
and practices, and attitudes to the natural/supernatural world[ s] may be
covered, depending on subtitle.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, Medieval Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will appreciate the complex world view and agency of regular
medieval people; they will acquire research skills and be able to critically
assess primary and secondary source materials
HIST 310F   Medieval Inquisitions and Heresy   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the intriguing range of religious beliefs and
practices in medieval Europe. Over the course of the semester, students
will explore the criteria and processes by which local communities and
translocal authorities deﬁned heresy as well as the political interests and
cultural assumptions that shaped labels and deﬁnitions.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Medieval Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will understand beliefs that shaped medieval religiosity, gain
appreciation for roles played by heretics and inquisitions in premodern
Europe, and look for similar phenomena in the modern world
HIST 310G   Supernatural in the Middle Ages   (3 Credit Hours)   
Understanding the medieval supernatural leads to an appreciation of the
richness of medieval society and intellectual culture. How were "natural"
and "supernatural" deﬁned across time and space, popular and elite
cultures? How were ideas about the "supernatural" shaped by daily life,
theology?
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies, Medieval
Studies   
Outcomes:
Think historically about social and intellectual approaches to the
supernatural; Assess arguments; interpret and contextualize primary
sources; Develop research skills and ability to formulate questions
HIST 310L   Love and Violence in Medieval Culture and Society   (3 Credit
Hours)   
We will investigate the extent to which chivalric ideas controlled or
encouraged aristocratic violence; the relationship between violence and
courtliness; the extent to which chivalry threatened or strengthened royal
government; and the influence of courtly love on gender.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Medieval Studies, Women & Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
Familiarity with medieval ideas about acceptable forms of violence;
understand long-term influence of medieval ideas about love, sexuality,
and violence; how to read and interpret medieval literary and social textsHIST 311B   The Crusades: Christianity and Islam   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the origins and development of the Crusades and
the Crusader States in the Islamic East. It will explore crusade ideology,
political and military histories of crusades, compare Christian, Jewish,
and Muslim perceptions of the crusading movement, and consider
invocations of Jihad and Crusade into the modern era.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies, Interreligious
and Interfaith Studies, Islamic World Studies, Medieval Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will learn about the histories of the Crusades, the communities
impacted by them, and historiographical debates on the topic; They will
write papers using primary and secondary sources
HIST 312   England to 1485   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the history of medieval England, with an emphasis
on its cultural history as manifested through written documents, material
remains, art and music.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Medieval Studies, Shakespeare Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST329/MSTU340   
Outcomes:
Students will understand that English culture is an amalgamation of
Anglo-Saxon and Norman-French culture, with influences from the Celtic
and the Latin culture of Roman Catholicism; and will gain skill in the
analysis of primary sources
HIST 314   Renaissance   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the political and cultural life of Italy's ﬁve principal
city-states (Rome, Florence, Venice, Milan and Naples) from the era of St.
Francis and Dante until the sack of Rome in 1527.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies, Italian
Studies, Medieval Studies, Shakespeare Studies   
Course equivalencies:  HIST314/MSTU336   
Outcomes:
Students gain appreciation for the debate about a rebirth of ancient
culture in the city-states of Italy; They acquire special cognizance of
humanism as a historical phenomenon and the influence of humanism on
education, politics, the visual arts and religion
HIST 314A   The Jesuits: Life and History   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the history of the Society of Jesus from its
founding by Ignatius Loyola in the 16th century to its activities in the
contemporary world.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST297/CATH297   
Outcomes:
Students will gain a sense of the characteristics of Jesuit spirituality and
the contribution of Jesuits to various ﬁelds of human endeavor such as
evangelization, education, politics, literature, and the visual arts
HIST 315   The Reformation   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the birth and progress of the Reformation in
Europe from Luther's protest in 1517 to the conclusion of the Thirty Years
War in 1648.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies, German
Studies, Shakespeare Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST315/CATH316   
Outcomes:
Students gain familiarity with the social, religious, intellectual, and
political background of the Reformation; Luther's personal religious
experience and his theological convictions; the Swiss Reformation of
Zwingli and Calvin; the nature and spread of Calvinism; the elements of
the Radical Reformation; and the efforts for Catholic Reform culminating
at the Council of Trent

--- Page 462 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 493
HIST 316   History of Poland   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines political, socioeconomic, and cultural
developments in Poland since the ﬁrst Polish state. Its major themes
include: the consolidation of the Polish state; economic and political
problems in the 17th Century; revolution and independence; World War II;
Communist rule in Poland; and Solidarity.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, European Studies, German
Studies, Global Studies, Polish Studies, Shakespeare Studies, European
Studies, European Studies, German Studies, Global Studies, Polish
Studies, Shakespeare Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will improve their analytical, quantitative synthetic, and critical
cognitive skills; develop written and oral communications skills; and gain
historical knowledge
HIST 317   Age of Absolutism & the Enlightenment   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course explores the period that leads directly into the French
Revolution.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students gain an appreciation of the social and economic role of Western
Europe in the world of the 17th and 18th centuries; the nature of classic
absolutism as illustrated by the reign of Louis XIV of France; and the
origin and evolution of Prussia and Austria as examples of enlightened
absolutism
HIST 318A   Early Modern England 1485-1760   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course surveys the major political, social, economic, religious, and
cultural developments in England under the Tudors, Stuarts and early
Hanoverians (1485-1760).
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Shakespeare Studies   
Outcomes:
Students examine the complexities of the aftermath of the Wars of the
Roses; the English Reformation; Elizabethan and Jacobean culture and
society; the English Civil War and Glorious Revolution of 1688; the wars
against Louis XIV; and the rise of England as a great power
HIST 318B   English Social History 1450-1750   (3 Credit Hours)   
This is a course in the social and cultural history of early-modern
England. It focuses, in particular, upon the tension between how early
modern English men and women saw their world (ordered, hierarchical,
stable, divinely sanctioned) and what their world was actually like
(disordered, socially mobile, unstable, secular).
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of the best and most recent work
in demography, iconography, family history, women's history, and the
histories of material culture, popular culture, religion, education and
crime, and be exposed both to a wide variety of historical methodologies
as well as related ﬁelds such as anthropology and art history
HIST 318C   London 1550 - 1715   (3 Credit Hours)   
This interdisciplinary introduction to the history of London will assess the
economic, political, social, and cultural reasons for the city's importance
in British and world history.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Shakespeare Studies, Urban
Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of how a variety of source materials
can be are used to develop an urban history of Great Britain's capital and
apply this knowledge to enhance their own communication and critical
thinking skillsHIST 320   Era French Revolution & Napoleon   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course analyzes the causes, meanings, and consequences of the
French Revolution of 1789 by examining French society and culture from
the age of absolutism to the end of Napoleon Bonaparte's empire.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of both the Revolution itself and its
effects on the course of world history and become familiar with variety of
analytic styles, such as narrative, political, economic, social, Marxist, and
revisionist approaches to the history of the period
HIST 321   19th Century European Culture and Ideas   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course investigates the main currents of European thought and
culture from the Romantic era to the ﬁn de siècle. Using literary texts and
music, as well as visual arts, we will study the major intellectual trends
of the nineteenth century and attempt to determine their influence on
European society.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, German Studies   
Outcomes:
By using their historical knowledge of nineteenth century Europe as a
guide, students will develop critical thinking and communications skills
about the art, music, and literature of the era
HIST 322   Modern France: From Empire to Postcolonial Nation   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course explores the cultural and political development of modern
France as a nation and imperial power. It examines the formation of
national identities; the discourse and practice of French nationalism and
republicanism; and the forms of resistance and collaboration that shaped
relations between citizens, state, colonized peoples, and empire.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST338/INTS338   
Outcomes:
Students will understand how the development of French republicanism
and Enlightenment thinking shaped nation and empire building in the
19th century but also influenced colonial resistance in the 20th century
HIST 324   Italy 19th & 20th Centuries   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course studies the major currents in Italy from the defeat of
Napoleon to the present.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies, Italian American
Studies, Italian Studies, European Studies, Global Studies, Italian
American Studies, Italian Studies   
Course equivalencies:  HIST335/INTS335/ROST335   
Outcomes:
Students explore the political, social, religious, economic and intellectual
currents against the background of Italy's uniﬁcation as a nation-state
HIST 325   Modern Britain: Empire, Industry, Democracy   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines political changes in Britain, economic and social
causes and consequences of industrialization, and the changing position
of Great Britain in Europe and the world.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the political process of
democratization and the global affect of economic change on Britain
as evidenced in the extension of voting rights, the growth of Empire, the
creation of the Commonwealth and participation in the European Union

--- Page 463 ---
494  History
HIST 325A   The British Empire: From Barbados to Brexit   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course examines the rise and decline of Britain's empire.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST332/INTS332   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the different factors responsible for its growth;
relationship of empire and British economic and political change; place of
empire in the Victorian ethos; different imperial governing arrangements;
growth of nationalism and movements for independence within the
empire and commonwealth
HIST 326   Ireland: Colony to Nation State   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course traces the transformation of Britain's oldest colony into an
independent nation between the seventeenth and twentieth centuries.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  HIST333/INTS333   
Outcomes:
Students will develop an understanding of how Irish nationalism shaped
British and Irish history and use Ireland as a template to develop critical
thinking and communications skills about the transformation of colonies
into independent states
HIST 327A   The Balkans: History, Fiction, Film   (3 Credit Hours)   
Covering southeast European areas once ruled by the Habsburg,
Venetian, and Ottoman Empires, the course explores the following
issues: the rise and fall of empires; nationalism and nation-formation;
Communism and post-socialist transformations; popular culture and
politics; and experiences of war, organized violence, and international
intervention. Students will gain fain factual knowledge (terminology,
trends, basic structures) of Balkan societies and develop advanced skills
in speaking and writing about history
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies, Islamic World
Studies   
HIST 328   Russia Pre-1917: Empire Building   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines how, by the middle of the 19th century, Russia
emerged as the largest empire in the world.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to explain how Russia survived the ravages of
the Mongols under Chingis Khan, the reign of terror under Ivan the
Terrible, westernization under Peter the Great; opened itself to new ideas
under Catherine the Great, while it continued to preserve an oppressive
institution of serfdom and remained a deeply divided society ready to
explode in 1917
HIST 328A   Russian Empire and Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines a history of the Russian empire through the works
of Russian literature. What Russian writers from Pushkin to Tolstoy
can tell us about Russia and how a history of the Russian empire is
crystallized in the works of ﬁction are among the issues addressed in this
course. Course introduces students to the history of the Russian empire
and classics of Russian literature. A historical and literary context will
help students understand the predicament of contemporary Russia.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   HIST 329   Women's Sphere in Past Society   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines comparative perspectives on feminism, sexuality,
and women in the family and in public life in Europe 1700-present.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST293/WOST256/WSGS256   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of women's contributions to
history, historian's perspectives on women in history, and the gendered
deﬁnition of public and private spheres
HIST 329C   Empire, Sex, Violence: European Colonial History   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course examines European colonialism in Africa and Asia. Topics
include theories of imperial expansion; the rise of "scientiﬁc" racism;
the role of class and gender in colonial ideologies; the relationship
between ideas of "civilization" and colonial violence; the forces behind
decolonization; and globalization in the post-colonial world. Students
will know the political and socio-economic factors that shaped European
imperialism in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries and understand the
consequences of colonialism and decolonization on the world tod ay.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies, Women &
Gender Studies   
HIST 329N   Modern European Nationalism: Myth and Reality   (3 Credit
Hours)   
The course will begin by tracing the origins and various forms of
European nationalism, continue with the establishment of nation-
states in Western and Eastern Europe, and end with a discussion of
various national and ethnic issues that dominate European political and
ideological discourse today.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies, Polish Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will explore ways in which nationalism has affected relations
between individuals, communities, and states in Europe; Students will
assess nationalism's adaptability to diverse social, political, and cultural
environments
HIST 330   Europe in the Age of Catastrophe, 1900-1945   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course traces the origins of the two world wars in the ﬁrst half of the
twentieth century and assesses the cultural and political movements that
transformed Europe and the west in those years.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, German Studies, Global
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST325/INTS376   
Outcomes:
Students will develop critical thinking and communications skills about
how the contemporary world was shaped by the political, military,
cultural, and social transformations in the ﬁrst half of the twentieth
century
HIST 330F   Fascinating Fascism:  1919 to the Present   (3 Credit Hours)   
The recent emergence of populist nationalism in the western world has
sparked a renewed interest in the political phenomenon of Fascism.
This course explores the rise and evolution of Fascist movements and
regimes from early twentieth century to the present. Students will learn
about the characteristics of Fascist movements, the circumstances that
brought some of them to power, and the factors that shaped the behavior
of Fascist Regimes.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   

--- Page 464 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 495
HIST 331A   Food, Hunger, and Power in the Modern World   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course explores how conflicts over food shaped the modern world.
We compare shifting interpretations of famine (in Ireland, India, and
Ethiopia), and explore how food became a "weapon of war" during the
World Wars. Finally, the course analyzes how race, gender, and class
shaped American food and welfare policies.); Students will develop skills
in analytically interpreting both primary and secondary sources; Students
will have engaged in independent research with both primary and
secondary sources to complete a historical research project; Students
will understand how race and gender have shaped and been shaped by
the modern food system.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics, European Studies, Global Studies,
Women & Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will have developed an awareness of the biological, political,
social, cultural, and economic meanings of food in modern societies;
Students will have gained exposure to different methodological
approaches to studying food and hunger (anthropology, economics,
sociology, psychology, gender studies etc
HIST 334A   The Nazi Revolution   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course will deal with the causes, main features and consequences of
the Nazi movement in Germany and Europe from 1919 to 1945.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, German Studies   
Outcomes:
The students explore the origins of Nazism and the reasons for Hitler's
success; Students appreciate the elements of "Nazi culture, " the nature
of Nazi rule in the 1930s, Nazi foreign policy and aggression in the
1930s, and World War II; They acquire a sense of the Nazi movement as
a phenomenon growing out of unique German circumstances as well as
one reflecting the larger context of modern western history
HIST 334B   The Holocaust: History and Memory   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores a deﬁning event of modernity, the genocide of
Europe's Jews, by exploring Nazi actions, victims' varied experiences,
and international reactions. We will also tackle questions like: Was the
Holocaust unique? What does it mean to be a "bystander"? What are the
politics of memory and commemoration?
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies, Peace, Justice,
and Conflict Studies, Polish Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST304/PAX 304   
Outcomes:
Students acquire a sense of the causes, processes and implications of
recent genocide; They are challenged to develop the outlines of a theory
for predicting when genocide is likely to occur and to provide a clear
deﬁnition of the term; Most importantly, they articulate from the historical
data ways to prevent genocide
HIST 335   The Second World War   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course examines the history of the war from its origins to the
destruction of the Axis powers and the onset of the Cold War.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, German Studies, Global
Studies, Polish Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST326/INTS328/PAX 326   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the interrelationship among political, social,
economic, military, and diplomatic developments as demonstrated in the
events of the Holocaust, the spread of nationalism, and the origins of the
Cold WarHIST 336   Contemporary Europe 1945 to Present   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the postwar world, the movement toward European
integration; the tensions between East and West; problems and proposed
solutions in contemporary Europe, as well as responses to these issues
made by intellectual and cultural leaders of the modern age.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, German Studies, Global
Studies, Polish Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST327/INTS327   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the process of European integration, including
the effects of the Cold War on Europe, the challenges of the re-uniﬁcation
of Germany, the integration of ten Central European nations into the
European Union, and cultural reactions to these developments
HIST 337   Rise & Fall of Soviet Union   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will cover such issues as the Revolution and Civil War, Stalin's
repression, victories in World War II, the years of stagnation, Soviet
society, its institutions and culture.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies, Polish Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST341/INTS392   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to explain how the Russian Socialist revolution
came into being, what kind of society it sought to create, and how this
new society, the Soviet Union, developed and ﬁnally dissolved in 1991
HIST 337A   Women in Russia and Eurasia, 1860-Present   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course surveys the experiences of women in the late Russian
empire, the Soviet Union, and the states that now comprise the region.
In particular, we will examine the ways in which writers, ﬁlmmakers, and
activists of the 19th, 20th, and 21st centuries have addressed the 'woman
question. '
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies, Women &
Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain understanding of key concepts related to women's
history in Russia; they will produce written and oral commentaries on the
texts and issues studied in class
HIST 338A   History of European Communism   (3 Credit Hours)   
In this course students will study the history of European Communism
from its inception. The success that this ideology enjoyed among
European societies makes it necessary to study this phenomenon in
detail. The course will begin by tracing the origins of Communism and
end with a discussion of its downfall.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, German Studies, Global
Studies   
Outcomes:
Improved cognitive skills and communications skills; Enhanced historical
knowledge
HIST 338B   Eastern Europe in the 20th Century   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course offers a historical survey and analysis of the processes of
political, social, cultural, and economic change that affected Eastern
Europe in the twentieth century. The course will begin with the break-up
of multi-national empires in Eastern Europe and end with the collapse of
communism.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Improved cognitive skills and communications skills; Enhanced historical
knowledge

--- Page 465 ---
496  History
HIST 339C   Modern Europe and the Arts   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course takes advantage of Chicago's access to one of the most
important collections of modern European art in the world. The Art
Institute of Chicago offers masterpieces representing every major
aesthetic movement in Western history. Full appreciation of these
treasures involves recognizing the historical circumstances that
surrounded their creation and considering the ideas their creators
intended to communicate.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST305/INTS305A   
Outcomes:
Students will better appreciate the great works themselves and learn
from them about major developments in modern European social,
political, and cultural history
HIST 339F   History of Feminist Thought and Social Action   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course focuses on the history and development of feminist thought
and activism since the late eighteenth century. Attention goes beyond
just U.S. and European feminist history, exploring Indigenous, Black, and
postcolonial feminism to investigate their unique feminist ideas and the
challenges they pose to "traditional" feminist thought and action.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X - WSGS 330 / HIST 339F   
Outcomes:
Students will learn to identify key concepts, thinkers, activists; analyze
and critique some of the major works; and develop an integrated
understanding of the history of feminist thought, broadly conceived
HIST 340B   Introduction to Islamic History   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the early and medieval history of the states,
societies, and cultures of the Middle East from the prophetic mission until
the fall of the 'Abbasid empire in 1258.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Islamic World Studies, Medieval Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST312/IWS312   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the impact of Islam as a
religious and cultural phenomenon and be able to analyze historically the
Quran as well as primary sources from jurisprudence, philosophy, ethics,
and historiography
HIST 341   Modern Middle East   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course surveys the modern Middle East, with a focus on the Arab
world.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Arabic Language and Culture, Global Studies,
Islamic World Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST313/INTS313/IWS313   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the Ottoman background;
the age of imperialism; and the 20th century, and be able to approach the
period from an anthropological as well as historical perspective
HIST 341B   Arab-Israeli Conflict   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores the history of the Arab-Israeli conflict since the
beginnings of the immigration of the East Europeans and Russian Jews
to Ottoman Palestine in the late 19th century.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Islamic World Studies, Peace,
Justice, and Conflict Studies   
Course equivalencies:  HIST322/INTS322/PAX 322/IWS322   
Outcomes:
Students will gain understanding of national Zionism in Europe; Ottoman
and British Palestine; the declaration of the state of Israel; the Palestinian
refugee problem; the Arab-Israeli wars; the Camp David agreement and
recent peace talks and their aftermathHIST 341C   Tunisia On-Site: Arab Spring, Democratic Change, Islam   (3
Credit Hours)   
A combination of site visits, lectures, and group discussions throughout
Tunisia provides a unique experiential understanding of the relationship
between the Arab spring, democratic change, Islam, gender relations, and
U.S. foreign policy amidst the historical inheritances of the Carthaginian,
Roman, Islamic, and French empires in North Africa.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Arabic
Language and Culture, Global Studies, Islamic World Studies, Women &
Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC 399/HIST 313T   
Outcomes:
Experientially based knowledge of the politics, society, culture, history,
and international relations of a country (Tunisia) in a region (North Africa)
at the intersection of Africa and the Middle East
HIST 342A   African History to 1600   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course traces the history of the African continent to 1600.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST350/BWS 386/INTS378   
Outcomes:
students will demonstrate understanding of the development and
diversity of political, economic, ecological, cultural and religious forces in
Africa, as well as the relationship between Africa and other world areas
HIST 342B   African History Post-1600   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course traces the history of the African continent from 1600 to the
present, i.e., from the tumult of the slave trade through Africa's resistance
to European imperialism and colonialism, and its eventual emergence as
an independent continent.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Global
Studies, Islamic World Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST351/BWS 387/INTS351   
Outcomes:
Students will appreciate the legacies of colonialism and place the
contemporary problems of independence in historical perspective
HIST 342C   The History of Islam in Africa   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the development of Islam in Africa, including
issues such as Islamic mysticism, eschatology, and state formation.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Islamic
World Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST349/BWS300/IWS349   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of how and when Islam entered
Africa and how the religion shaped African societies prior to the colonial
period
HIST 342D   African Diaspora in the Middle East and South Asia   (3 Credit
Hours)   
The purpose of this course is to explore the African Diaspora as it
pertains to the Middle East and South Asia. Issues such as the concept
of slavery in Islam, and identity preservation will be treated throughout
the course of the semester. Emphasis will be placed on the role Black
Africans such as Antara ibn Shadad, Malik Kafur, and Malik Ambar, just to
name a few, played in the formation and crystallization of Middle Eastern
and South Asian states, kingdoms and empires.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora   

--- Page 466 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 497
HIST 342M   African Music's Influence on American Music   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This historically-based exploration will analyze the role that African music
from the continent played in shaping and forming such American musical
forms as the Blues, Jazz, Rock and Roll, Soul Music, and Hip-Hop. The
course begins in 15th century West Africa, and ends in the late 20th
century American milieu.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Global
Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of the development and
diversity of African, as well as the influence of African music on American
culture
HIST 343   Modern South Asia   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will examine the modern history of South Asia. It will explore
the history of South Asia with a thematic and chronological approach.
Important subjects to be examined include: early modern state formation,
colonial forms of knowledge, religious identity, gender and class relations,
and the political economy in the early modern and colonial state.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies, Islamic World
Studies, Asian Studies, Global Studies, Islamic World Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will enhance their written and oral communication skills;
improve their critical thinking skills and improve their ability to engage in
historical analysis
HIST 345A   Traditional China from Antiquity to 1550   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will trace Chinese history from the origins of classical
Chinese civilization in the Shang and Zhou periods to the evolution of an
agrarian society under the imperial state.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Chinese Language & Culture, Asian
Studies, Chinese Language & Culture   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST342/ASIA341   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of how domination by aristocratic
lineage gave way to the Confucian state and society based on peasant
farming; and how a bureaucratic and autocratic polity existed in
symbiosis with a socioeconomic elite that maintained itself through the
dominance of the agrarian economy as well as through increasing access
to the sources of commerce and trade
HIST 346A   Early Modern China: 1550-1800   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course studies early modern Chinese society, economy, and the state
from ca. 1550 to 1800, a period which marked the culmination of the
development of the centralized, bureaucratic, imperial state and exhibited
signiﬁcant innovations in economic structure and activity. Students will
be able to describe the pressure of unprecedented demographic growth,
and explain how the society began to experience many of the problems
that continue. They will be able analyze China's failure to build on its
earlier economic and technological successes by exploring intellectual
life and its relation to scientiﬁc and technological innovation.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Chinese Language & Culture   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST344/ASIA344/INTS371   HIST 346B   Reform & Revolution in China, 1800-1949   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores China's attempt to adjust to the complex
transformations in its economy, society, politics and intellectual life
initiated during the early modern period and transﬁgured into crisis
proportions by unchecked demographic growth. These challenges were
heightened and made more acute by the often hostile encounter with ﬁrst
the West and then Japan through the end of World War II.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Chinese Language & Culture, Global
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST345/ASIA345/INTS372   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to describe and assess the numerous evolutionary
and revolutionary strategies for change during the period in China under
discussion
HIST 346C   History of Christianity in China   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course will cover the encounter between China and Christianity,
from 7th century Nestorian monks, 12th century Franciscan Missions,
16th century Jesuit missionaries, Christianity in the period of Western
imperialism, the expulsion of Western missionaries after the 1949
Communist revolution, and the formation of underground churches.
Develop critical, writing, and research skills. Deepen understanding of
Christianity as a world religion, the history of China, Christianity in China,
and historical ties between China and The West.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Catholic Studies, Chinese
Language & Culture, Global Studies   
HIST 347A   China Since 1949: The People's Republic   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the attempt to create and foster the growth of a
socialist state and society in China under the Chinese Communis t Party,
with attention to the steady transformation of society, the economy, and
political life since 1949.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Chinese Language & Culture, Global
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST346/ASIA346/INTS373   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to assess the major convulsive episodes such
as land reform, the Great Leap Forward, the Great Proletarian Cultural
Revolution, the Four Modernizations, and the impact and legacy of Mao
Zedong
HIST 347C   Cultural Revolution-China   (3 Credit Hours)   
The Great Proletarian Cultural Revolution (1966-1976) was a watershed in
China's modern history. Over the course of a decade, Mao summoned the
populace to battle "bourgeoisie" of the state by attacking various parts of
the social, cultural and political structure.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Chinese Language & Culture, Global
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST346B/ASIA346B/INTS346B   
Outcomes:
Students will examine the Cultural Revolution from the perspectives of
political, social, and cultural history, utilizing memoirs, oral histories,
documentary and dramatized ﬁlms, primary documents written by
China's party leaders, and scholarly writings; come to understand these
events not solely from the hindsight of post-reform China, but from the
perspective of the times during which these events unfolded; and develop
their own understandings of what these years meant for the shaping of
modern China's state, economy, institutions, and citizens

--- Page 467 ---
498  History
HIST 347D   Modern Chinese History through Film   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course presents Chinese modern History through the lens of feature
ﬁlms and documentaries. Through a chronological approach, it focuses
on the period from the Opium Wars to the present. It discusses political
struggles, economic shifts, the encounter with Western Imperialism, the
birth of Communist China, the shift to a market economy; it focuses on
issues of war, gender, society, rural versus urban, and the environment.
Acquire a non-Western Historical perspective; understand diversity in the
World; be conversant in modern Chinese History; connect those notions
to the historical development of the West; understand ﬁlm theory and
practice.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Chinese Language & Culture, Film &
Digital Media Studies, Global Studies, International Film & Media Studies   
HIST 349   Contemporary Global Issues: Historical Perspectives   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course will introduce students to important contemporary issues
such as globalization, resurgent ethnic and religious strife, racism,
imperialism, and the crisis of the nation state, among others. Both
thematic and chronological approaches will be employed in examining
selected world regions.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  HIST299BCDE/INTS298   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the way history
shapes pressing issues in the contemporary world, the way a historical
approach helps make sense of these same issues, and the value of
comparative study and analysis across time and place
HIST 349A   Women in East Asia   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course studies the lives of Asian women in China, Japan, and Korea
from early modern times to the present by examining changing roles of
women and how these changes have come about.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies, Japanese Language
and Culture, Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST296/ASIA296/INTS296/WOST   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to explain how life reflects law in the political, social,
economic and cultural history of Asian women; how imperialism and war
have affected women; how women have effected change
HIST 350   Colonial Latin America   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will introduce students to the major themes in the colonial
history of the region known today as Latin America from conquest to
independence.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Latin American Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST352/LASP350   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the following
broad themes: the nature and difﬁculties of colonial rule in culturally
diverse societies; the different ways in which individuals from all walks of
life fared in the colonies; and the role that religion and the church played
in everyday lifeHIST 351   Latin American Independence, 1750-1830   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines independence movements and wars in the region
known today as Latin America. Course readings and lectures will explore
the impact of the Enlightenment on Bourbon Spain and Spanish America,
new movements toward free trade, friction between the church and state,
and crown policies toward indigenous peoples.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Latin American Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST353/LASP351   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the basic
contours of independence movements in Latin America
HIST 352   Latin America in the 19th Century   (3 Credit Hours)   
This is a survey course that introduces students to the history of Latin
America during the nineteenth century through two: 1) Nation Formation:
1780s-1850s and 2) Liberal Reforms and Progress: 1850s-1910.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Latin American Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST354/LASP352   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the persistence of
political instability, the problems of economic development, and elite and
popular perceptions of race, class, and gender; Students will also be able
to draw comparisons between different Latin American experiences
HIST 353   Latin America in Recent Times   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines major political, cultural and socio-economic
developments in Latin America from the twentieth century to today.
Topics to be covered include nationalism and revolution, military
dictatorship and state oppression, and hemispheric relations.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Latin American Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST355/INTS389/LASP353   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate a broad understanding of the
impetus behind the following events and themes: the Mexican Revolution
of 1910; Castro and the Cuban Revolution; Peronism; Dirty Wars in Chile,
Argentina and Central America; Cold War politics and CIA operations; and
the current Drug War in Colombia
HIST 355   The Caribbean & Central America in Colonial/Modern Times   (3
Credit Hours)   
This course examines the Caribbean and Central America from European
conquest and colonization to the present day.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Latin American Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST356/INTS380/LASP354   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the signiﬁcance of the
Caribbean and Central America region in world, but especially US, politics
since the nineteenth century and increasingly during the Cold War;
Students will demonstrate an ability to draw comparisons and contrasts
between nations in these regions, especially as they relate to the rest of
Latin America and the United States
HIST 356   Mexican History-Ancient to Modern Times   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will introduce students to the major themes in Mexican
history from pre-Columbian to contemporary times based on three
historical periods: Early Mexico, the Nineteenth Century, and Recent
Mexico.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Latin American Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST357/INTS379/LASP355   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an ability to draw on the major
themes in Mexico history as they relate to the Aztec empire, Spanish
conquest and colonialism, independence, modernization, revolution, and
democratization

--- Page 468 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 499
HIST 357   The Mexican Revolution in Popular Imagination   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course explores debates about the Mexican Revolution (1910-1917)
by analyzing its interpretation in scholarship and its representations in
memoir, ﬁction, art and ﬁlm.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Latin American Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the Mexican Revolution
as an event and as a myth in history and popular culture
HIST 358   Women in Latin American History   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces students to the life experiences of women in Latin
America through history, ﬁlm, oral history, and their personal narratives.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Latin American Studies, Women &
Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  HIS358/INT368/LASP299/WSGS385   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the way notions of
femininity have been constructed and have changed over time throughout
Latin American history, the various and sometimes subtle ways that
women have empowered themselves, and the more overt politicization of
women since the mid-twentieth century
HIST 359   Teaching World History   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on pedagogical approaches, curricular analysis, and
methodological developments in the ﬁeld of World (or Global) history.
Students will become familiar with world history by developing a syllabus
for a course they may teach in the future at the high school or college
level.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
HIST 359C   Nationalist Politics: A Global Perspective   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course traces the origins and different forms of nationalism,
discussing the establishment of nation-states in Europe and the
escalation of nationalist conflicts across the globe, from the Balkans
to the Middle East to Latin America. It explores how nationalism
affected relations between states and various populations and ethnic
communities. Students will acquire factual knowledge (terminology,
classiﬁcation, structures) and theoretical frameworks (methods and
debates) about the origins and global spread of nationalism.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
HIST 359D   The Ottoman Empire: A Global Perspective   (3 Credit Hours)   
The main themes of the course include rise and development of the
Ottoman Empire; relations between Muslims, Jews, Christians, and
other communities; the practices of inclusion and exclusion along class,
gender, and ethno-religious lines; the rise of nationalism; experiences of
violence and war; and imperial legacies in post-Ottoman states.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Interreligious and Interfaith
Studies, Islamic World Studies   
Outcomes:
Gain factual knowledge; Learn to analyze different ideas and texts
HIST 359E   Concentration Camps: A Global History   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores the underlying logic of extrajudicial encampment
from the camps of 19th-century colonialism to the Soviet Gulag, Nazi
death camps, and more contemporary detention centers for refugees
and political prisoners. Why have modern states - across the ideological
spectrum - made use of camps against real and perceived enemies?
Students will understand the underlying political, racial, and economic
motives that lead to concentration camps. A transnational approach will
help students contextualize speciﬁc camp regimes within a larger global
history.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   HIST 359F   Genocides in the Modern World   (3 Credit Hours)   
This class evaluates the motives and circumstances of global genocides
and uncovers the experiences of those targeted by genocidal violence.
The course will range widely from settler colonial violence in the
Americas to the Armenian Genocide, the Holocaust, the Khmer Rouge,
Rwanda, ISIL, and beyond.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Race and Ethnicity   
Outcomes:
Students will compare and contrast global genocides across space and
time, evaluate the conﬁgurations of twentieth-century politics that have
generated multiple genocides, and hone critical reading and writing skills
HIST 359H   Anti-Colonial Resistance in the Twentieth Century   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course will explore the end of modern colonialism and the
emergence of nation-states in Africa and Asia: one of the most signiﬁcant
transformations in modern history. It will consider how imperial agents
justiﬁed their subjugation of colonized peoples and how colonial objects
came to resist and end colonial rule. Students will learn about theoretical,
political, and historical explanations about the processes of resistance
and decolonization. Further, they will develop critical analysis skills and
historical knowledge.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies, Islamic World
Studies   
HIST 360   Community and Culture in Colonial America   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course covers the story of America's colonial past from its origins in
the Atlantic world of the 16th century through its contact and conflicts
with Native American peoples.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the process of colonial
settlement, colonial labor and economic patterns, trans-Atlantic
immigration, Colonial Wars of Empire and the conquest of native lands
HIST 360A   Slavery and Abolition: Then & Now   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will ﬁrst examine the history of slavery in the ancient and
medieval eras, but is devoted mainly to the rise and maturation of slavery
and slave trading in the Atlantic world (ca. 1500-1865). The last third of
the class charts the resurgence of post-abolition slavery.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Race and Ethnicity   
Outcomes:
Students will learn about slavery past and present to fashion a moral
philosophy of human freedom that can make a world without slavery a
reality
HIST 361   The American Revolution, 1763-1815   (3 Credit Hours)   
When British colonists in North America declared themselves
independent from the British Crown in 1776, they affected the most
successful revolution in modern history. This course covers the
antecedents and outcomes of their actions from the Seven Years War
through the American Revolution to the War of 1812.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the origins, actions and
signiﬁcance of the American Revolution; the development of the United
States Constitution; and the development of the nation up the War of
1812
HIST 362   America in the Age of Slavery and Capitalism   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course covers United States social, cultural, economic, and political
development during the ﬁrst half of the nineteenth century.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of how Modern America was
built between 1800 and 1850 through the study of urban development,
immigration, gender history, educational developments, wars of
expansion, and the growth of a democratic society

--- Page 469 ---
500  History
HIST 363   Civil War & Reconstruction 1850-1877   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course covers the crisis of the Union from the Compromise of 1850
through the Civil War and the era of Reconstruction.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST363/BWS 363   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the institution o f slavery,
the rise of abolitionist sentiment, the failure of democratic political
institutions, the military history of the war, its cultural impact on the
nation, and the struggle for racial justice in the Reconstruction era
HIST 366A   World War I and American Culture   (3 Credit Hours)   
Although World War I's impact on America paled in comparison to that of
the European combatants, the wartime experiences affected the nation's
economic, political, and cultural life for the remainder of the twentieth
century. This course examines America's World War I experience and
explores its legacy.
Outcomes:
Students will understand how the United States underwent the
transformation from a relatively minor player on the international
scene to an international presence, how those living through these
years experienced social, cultural, economic, and political challenges
associated with American life in the twentieth century; and how the roads
taken and not taken during this period have shaped the options available
to us today
HIST 367   United States from Great Depression to Recession   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course focuses on American history from 1929 to the present,
a period of economic turmoil, domestic reform, and international
engagement.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Sociolegal Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate historical knowledge of the politics and
government of the United States since the start of the Great Depression
and develop critical thinking and communication skills
HIST 369   20th Century Popular Culture   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the social and cultural patterns of twentieth
century life as revealed in popular novels, vaudeville, movies, music,
nightlife, and advertising.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate historical knowledge of American
traditions of success, family, home, consumption and culture, to draw
links between gender and social life, and to develop critical thinking and
communication skills
HIST 370   American Business, Wealth, and Inequality   (3 Credit Hours)   
Beginning with colonization and extending to the 2000s global expansion
of Starbucks, this course outlines the history of American business,
wealth, and the attendant inequality by exploring the interplay between
business, labor, politics, and culture.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Sociolegal Studies, Sociolegal Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will improve their written communication skills; develop their
critical thinking skills; and learn how to execute historical analysisHIST 372   American Constitutional & Legal History to 1865   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course focuses on the constitutional and legal history of the U. S.
from colonial times to the end of the Civil War.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate historical knowledge of American
legal traditions of common law, federalism, and civil liberties, to draw
links between social and legal change; to evaluate US Supreme Court
decisions, and to develop critical thinking and communication skills
HIST 373   US Law & Public Policy   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the constitutional, legal, & public poli cy history of
the U. S. from the end of the Civil War to the twenty-ﬁrst century
Interdisciplinary Option:  Sociolegal Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of American legal traditions of
federalism, civil rights, criminal justice, and civil liberties; understand
social, legal, & policy changes; and evaluate US Supreme Court decisions
HIST 373A   Crime and Punishment   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines how notions of crime and punishment have
evolved between the nineteenth and twentieth centuries (with the early
modern period serving as a backdrop).
Interdisciplinary Option:  Sociolegal Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST373A/CRMJ345   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to draw conclusions on what precisely caused
the shifts in punishment, with attention to such things as the
professionalization of the judiciary, industrialization and urbanization, the
American Civil War, and Constitutional changes; Students will also gain
an understanding of sociological and anthropological approaches to this
topic
HIST 374   Black Politics   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will present a general overview of black politics in America,
including the major black political ideologies and their theoretical
underpinnings and the role of race in urban politics in the late twentieth
and early twenty-ﬁrst centuries.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Race
and Ethnicity, African Studies and the African Diaspora, Race and
Ethnicity   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST374/PLSC393/BWS374   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of how the circumstances of
Reconstruction shaped black political ideologies; how blacks came into
political power in major urban centers; and what the contours of debate
are in the black community over provocative issues such as the criminal
justice system, afﬁrmative action, reparations, and education
HIST 375   Digital History   (3 Credit Hours)   
Digital resources make primary source material available while
database, mapping, and text-mining applications allow us to ask new
types of research questions. Digital history is more than just gaining
familiarity with digital resources, applications, and platforms; it is about
understanding how using these tools has changed the way we study
history.
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST375/LASP375/INTS375A   
Outcomes:
Gain an introductory technical knowledge of digital tools or methods;
Learn to apply technical knowledge about digital history tools to
historical questions; Acquire experience managing and creating a team-
based digital humanities

--- Page 470 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 501
HIST 376   History of the American Frontier Movement   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will cover the process of frontier expansion in American
history.
Outcomes:
Students will understand the frontier as a social process that was part
of the American experience from its earliest colonial origins to the end
of the nineteenth century; Students will also understand the frontier
as a place in the western United States where Americans engaged in
cooperation, conflict, and conquest with native peoples, Mexicans, and
Asians
HIST 376A   History of the American Indian   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a survey of the history of American Indians, including the
variety of Pre-Columbian societies, the encounter between Indians and
European settlers, the impact of Eurasian diseases, American Indians'
ﬁght to avoid removal from their homelands, and the resurgence of
Indians as sovereign peoples.
Outcomes:
The student is to emerge from the course with an enhanced ability to
appreciate the unique cultures and experiences of American Indians;
appreciate the many and important ways in which Indian peoples have
changed and adapted over time; and understand the religious, racial,
and cultural values that motivated European-American policies toward
American Indians
HIST 377   African American Women's History   (3 Credit Hours)   
Course deepens students' understanding of African American Hist ory
by emphasizing African American women's leadership, intellectualism,
challenges, and social impact. Covering multiple eras from slavery, the
civil rights movement to the present-day and difﬁcult topics (including
sexual assault), the course examines the diverse experiences of
historically marginalized black women.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies, Women & Gender
Studies   
Outcomes:
Students become familiar with multiple important African American
historical ﬁgures; increase their understanding of intersectionality (race,
gender, sexuality, class) in American history; and gain essential research
skills
HIST 378   Latina/o History   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces the history of Latinos in the United States from
the Spanish Colonial period to the present.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Latin American Studies, Race and Ethnicity   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST378/LASP378   
Outcomes:
students will develop a greater appreciation and understanding of the
important roles played by Latino men and women in U.S. society; the
heterogeneity of the Latina/o population, including generational, regional,
class, and gender divisions; and the formation of transnational immigrant
communities
HIST 379A   Italian Americans in World War II   (3 Credit Hours)   
The impact of World War II on Italian-Americans and their roles in the war
effort. Topics include influence of Fascism in the U.S., classiﬁcation of
Italian-Americans as "ENEMY ALIENS, " participation of Italian-Americans
on the home front and as OSS members, and lasting impact of GI
experience and the GI Bill.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Italian American Studies, Italian Studies   
Outcomes:
To understand and analyze the effect that World War II had upon Italian-
Americans as a community and representative ethnic group, drawing on
detailed knowledge of World War II historyHIST 379B   History of Italians in Chicago   (3 Credit Hours)   
The History of Italians in Chicago offers an in-depth look at one of
Chicago's important ethnic groups. The course will utilize local resources
and include a number of guest speakers from the ﬁelds of sociology,
literature and political science.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Italian American Studies, Italian Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the major social-economic forces shaping
the history of Italians in Chicago; learn how to do primary research; see
themselves and local institutions as a part of history
HIST 380   Introduction to African-American History   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a general survey of African-American history from its
African origins to the Present.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Race
and Ethnicity   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST380/BWS 380   
Outcomes:
Upon completion of this class students should have a broad
understanding of African-American History from 17th to the early 21st
century
HIST 380A   Islam in the African-American Experience   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course traces the development of Islam among African Americans
from West African societies prior to the trans-Atlantic slave trade to the
influence of Islam on popular culture in the 21st century.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Islamic
World Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST380A/BWS302/IWS380   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of how Islamic identity was
maintained in the face of slavery, how and if African-American Muslim
communities differ from their emigrant counterparts, and how black
nationalist groups such as the Moorish Science Temple and Nation of
Islam influenced the Islamization of black consciousness in the 20th
century
HIST 381   Rebels & Reformers in U.S. History   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores the success and failure of radical political and social
movements in the United States.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Peace,
Justice, and Conflict Studies, Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  HIST381/AFR388/PAX387/WSGS303   
Outcomes:
Students will understand ﬁve major movements for social change in the
United States: abolition, women's rights, socialism, peace, and the quest
for racial equality
HIST 382   Teaching Race, Class, and Gender   (3 Credit Hours)   
What resources are there for future K-12 teachers wanting to explore the
intersections of gender, race, ethnicity, and class into their classrooms
and meet new requirements, like those in Chicago, to broaden the K-12
curriculum? This course is designed for primary and secondary education
majors eager to explore digital resources.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Italian American Studies, Latin American Studies,
Sociolegal Studies, Women & Gender Studies, Italian American Studies,
Latin American Studies, Sociolegal Studies, Women & Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will: discover a range of free, digital resources; hone their
critical reading and writing skills; craft and share lesson plans and
reflections; write and present a peer-reviewed research paper

--- Page 471 ---
502  History
HIST 384   Irish Diaspora in America   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the origins and diversity of Irish migration to the
United States since the eighteenth century.
Outcomes:
Students will use historical knowledge to develop critical thinking and
communications skills about the ﬁrst large American ethnic minority and
its impact on the history of the United States
HIST 385   Chicago in America   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course surveys the history of Chicago from its origins to the present,
using the city as a case study of American urbanization.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Urban Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST385/URB385   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate historical knowledge of Ch icago's
environmental, economic, social, cultural, and political history, to draw
links between race relations and urban change, and to develop critical
thinking and communication skills
HIST 386   Creation the American Metropolis   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the transformation of the United States from a
simple agrarian and small-town society to a complex urban and suburban
nation, covering the pre-Columbian period to the present.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Urban Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST386/URB386   
Outcomes:
Study history of American urbanization; improve writing and analytical
thinking
HIST 388   U.S. Wars   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will study United States Military history from the
Revolutionary War to the War on Terror. We will study key battles,
strategy, weapons and leaders. We will also focus on the individual
soldier: his pay, recreation, beneﬁts and equipment.
Outcomes:
Students will gain familiarity with the military aspects of warfare in U.S.
history and the social aspects of warfare; They will be challenged to
integrate those varying perspectives into a coherent synthesis of the
topic
HIST 388A   Vietnam War   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course offers a comprehensive examination of origin, execution, and
failure of America's war in Vietnam.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST/ASIA/PAX389/INTS388   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the ancient origins of the Vietnamese nation,
the rise and fall of the French colonial regime, the role of Vietnam in the
Cold War, the peace movement, the political and cultural impact of the
war on America, the success and failures of the United States military, the
impact of the war on the Indo-China region, and the memory of the war in
American culture
HIST 389B   Topic: Gender, Race, & Class in US History   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the historical interplay of gender, race and class in
the lives of African-American and white women in the United States.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Race and Ethnicity, Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST295/PAX295/WSGS299   
Outcomes:
Students will understand critical themes and periods in the development
of racism and sexism, especially the ways in which the two relate;
differences and similarities in the manifestations of and reactions to
racism and sexism in the lives and thought of African-American and white
women of differing class backgroundsHIST 389C   Gender Benders   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the changes in gender roles and the relationship
between men and women from the colonial era to the present.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST294/WOST290/WSGS294   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of the changing expectations
about and deﬁnitions of men and women of how families were organized,
how childrearing was handled, who made up the home, and how work and
family production followed a sexual division of labor
HIST 389F   The Sixties   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the turbulent years from 1960 to 1974 in
American history, a period of active social movements and foreign wars.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate historical knowledge of American
social, political, gender, and cultural change during the 1960s, to draw
links between popular mobilizations, countercultures, and social change,
and to develop critical thinking and communication skills
HIST 389K   Autobiography and Memoir in Recent US History   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Autobiography and Memoir in Recent US History uses personal
recollections as a way to get at large themes in history. Topics include
immigration, nativism, ethnicity, gender, regionalism, war, religion,
and class. Students read intensively as a way of understanding how
individuals live their lives within large historical forces and events. This is
a writing intensive course. It is also a reading intensive course. It is run as
a seminar - learning to discuss and engage with ideas is a key element.
HIST 389N   Anti-Immigrant Politics in U.S. History   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course features studies of anti-immigrant politics sponsored by: 1.
the Federalist Party (late 18th c); 2. the "Know Nothing" Party (mid-19th
c); 3. the Populist Party (late 19th c); 4. the Ku Klux Klan (1920s); 5. the
Republican Party (early 21st c).
Interdisciplinary Option:  Italian American Studies, Latin American Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will use historical perspective to deconstruct the rhetoric and
analyze the socio-economic and political contexts of past and present
nativist political movements
HIST 389W   Races to the White House: Presidential History   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course aims to show how the president's election, job, power, and
mystique has changed since the Founding. Students will delve into the
modern primary and party system's origins, the ﬁerce debates about the
Electoral College, the controversies over executive power, the media's
importance, and the ﬁrst families' changing role.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Sociolegal Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain historical knowledge of the American presidency,
federalism, and electoral politics and develop critical thinking and
communication skills
HIST 390   Senior Capstone   (3 Credit Hours)   
Each participant will utilize the research skills, historical studies and
writing abilities acquired to date to produce a signiﬁcant paper based
largely on historical research in primary sources and bolstered by
appropriate secondary sources. Restricted to students in senior standing.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate appropriate historical scholarship,
analysis and writing skills

--- Page 472 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 503
HIST 397   History Honors Tutorial   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students in this course will produce a signiﬁcant research paper on a
topic of their own choice (25-30 pages) based largely on primary sources
through archival research and will present their work in a symposium at
the end of the course.
Course equivalencies:  HIST397H / HIST397   
HIST 398   History Internship   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides three hours credit for students engaged in history
related internships in the public and private sectors.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to obtain an internship position, to learn on-the-
job from an experienced practitioner in a wide variety of public and
private sector settings, to draw links between their present situation and
historical research, and to develop critical thinking and communication
skills
HIST 399   Directed Study   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides students with the opportunity to work under the
direction of a faculty member on a particular area of interest that is not
part of the department's usual curriculum.
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of a speciﬁc area of history through
the close reading of selected texts and the preparation of a research
paper
History (BA)
The History BA degree helps students develop broad and deep knowledge
about the complexity and contingency of the past.  History majors
learn theories and read arguments that help explain both persistent
continuity and enormous change in human civilizations.  In courses
and assignments, students learn to wrestle and unpack sources that
provide the foundational evidence for interpretations of the past.  Finally,
the major develops skills of critical thinking, research, analysis, and
communication that are essential for the modern world.
The History major prepares students for graduate and law schools as well
as for careers in such ﬁelds as teaching in secondary schools, curatorial
and educational positions in museums and historical associations,
foreign service, library science, public administration and journalism.
Moreover, history courses may be especially pertinent to students of
language, business, science, or public health who wish to learn the
traditions of other nations and cultures.
Related Programs
Minor
•History Minor  (p. 506)
Combined
•History (BA/MA)  (p. 1240 )
•History/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1245 )
Curriculum
The major in history consists of a total of twelve (12) courses (36 hours)
and a portfolio, detailed below.
Code Title Hours
Introductory (Core) CoursesSelect two courses, one from each of the following categories:Tier 1 Foundational Historical Knowledge 3HIST 101Cultures, Powers, and Identities: Western Ideas
and Institutions to 1700HIST 102 Cultures, Powers, and Identities: Western Ideas
and Institutions since 1700HIST 103American PluralismHIST 104 Global History Since 1500HONR 101Western Traditions - Antiquity to the Middle AgesHONR 102 Western Traditions-Renaissance to ModernityTier 2 Historical Knowledge3
HIST 208 East Asian History: Themes & IssuesHIST 208XPre-Modern Chinese HistoryHIST 208Z Modern Chinese HistoryHIST 209Islamic History: Themes & IssuesHIST 210 Latin American History: Themes & IssuesHIST 211US History to 1865: Themes & IssuesHIST 212 US History since 1865: Themes & IssuesHIST 213African History: Themes & IssuesSelected Honors Courses: HONR 203A, HONR 203B, HONR 203C,
HONR 208A, HONR 208B, HONR 208C, HONR 209A, HONR 209B,
HONR 209C, HONR 210A, HONR 210B, HONR 210C, HONR 212A,
HONR 212B, HONR 212CMethods CoursesSelect one of the following: 3HIST 299Historical Methods 1INDS 380 Newberry Seminar 2Required AreasSelect four Upper-Level Courses, one from each of the following: 12Upper-Level Pre-Modern History  (p. 504) (see descriptions
below)Upper-Level Modern European History  (p. 504) (see descriptions
below)Upper-Level U.S. History  (p. 505) (see descriptions below)Upper-Level World History  (p. 504) (see descriptions below)Elective CoursesSelect any ﬁve (5) history courses at any level:  315HIST 101 - HIST 399  4CLST 362 Roman LawECON 327American Economic & Business HistoryTHEO 317 Christian Thought: Ancient-MedievalTHEO 318Christian Thought: Reformation to ModernSelected Honors Classes: HONR 101, HONR 102, HONR 203A,
HONR 203B, HONR 203C, HONR 208A, HONR 208B, HONR 208C,
HONR 209A, HONR 209B, HONR 209C, HONR 210A, HONR 210B,
HONR 210C, HONR 212A, HONR 212B, HONR 212CTotal Hours36
1To register for HIST 299 Historical Methods  Historical Methods, please
contact the History Department Administrative Assistant.
2For information on the Newberry Seminar, please contact Dr. Shermer
at eshermer@luc.edu .
3One of which can be  HIST 398 History Internship .

--- Page 473 ---
504  History (BA)
4Any 100-Level, 200-Level, or 300-Level course can count toward the
electives if not used for another requirement in the major. See History
Courses  (p. 487) for a complete list.
Required Areas: Upper-Level Pre-Modern History
Courses
Code Title Hours
Students must take at least one of the courses below as part of the
Required AreasHIST 253ABarbarians and the Fall of the Roman Empire3
HIST 254A The Vikings 3HIST 257AWitchcraft and Science in Pre-Modern Europe3
HIST 258A Blood, Heresy, and Treason: The Tudors and
Stuarts3HIST 300BTopics in Premodern History3
HIST 301 Plagues: The Black Death and Other Pandemics 3HIST 303Pre-Industrial City in Europe3
HIST 307 Greece to Alexander the Great 3HIST 308AHistory of Rome to Constantine3
HIST 308B Pompeii and Herculaneum 3HIST 308CHistory of Early Christianity3
HIST 308D Transformations of Rome in Late Antiquity 3HIST 309Shipwreck Archaeology3
HIST 310 The Middle Ages 3HIST 310AMedieval World 1100-15003
HIST 310B Medieval Culture 3HIST 310CMedieval Women3
HIST 310D Medieval Popular Religion 3HIST 310FMedieval Inquisitions and Heresy3
HIST 310G Supernatural in the Middle Ages 3HIST 310LLove and Violence in Medieval Culture and Society3
HIST 311B The Crusades: Christianity and Islam 3HIST 312England to 14853
HIST 314 Renaissance 3HIST 314AThe Jesuits: Life and History3
HIST 315 The Reformation 3HIST 316History of Poland3
HIST 317 Age of Absolutism & the Enlightenment 3HIST 318AEarly Modern England 1485-17603
HIST 318B English Social History 1450-1750 3HIST 318CLondon 1550 - 17153
HIST 342A African History to 1600 3HIST 345ATraditional China from Antiquity to 15503
CLST 362 Roman Law 3THEO 317Christian Thought: Ancient-Medieval3
Required Areas: Upper-Level Modern Europe Courses
Code Title Hours
Students must take at least one of the courses below as part of the
Required AreasHIST 265AThe First World War3
HIST 267A Modern German Culture and Ideas I 3HIST 267BModern German Culture and Ideas II3HIST 300C Topics in European History (Post-1700) 3HIST 320Era French Revolution & Napoleon3
HIST 321 19th Century European Culture and Ideas 3HIST 322Modern France: From Empire to Postcolonial
Nation3
HIST 324 Italy 19th & 20th Centuries 3HIST 325Modern Britain: Empire, Industry, Democracy3
HIST 325A The British Empire: From Barbados to Brexit 3HIST 326Ireland: Colony to Nation State3
HIST 327A The Balkans: History, Fiction, Film 3HIST 328Russia Pre-1917: Empire Building3
HIST 328A Russian Empire and Literature 3HIST 329Women's Sphere in Past Society3
HIST 329C Empire, Sex, Violence: European Colonial History 3HIST 329NModern European Nationalism: Myth and Reality3
HIST 330 Europe in the Age of Catastrophe, 1900-1945 3HIST 330FFascinating Fascism:  1919 to the Present3
HIST 331A Food, Hunger and Power in the Modern World 3HIST 334AThe Nazi Revolution3
HIST 334B The Holocaust: History and Memory 3HIST 335The Second World War3
HIST 336 Contemporary Europe 1945 to Present 3HIST 337Rise & Fall of Soviet Union3
HIST 337A Women in Russia and Eurasia, 1860-Present 3HIST 338AHistory of European Communism3
HIST 338B Eastern Europe in the 20th Century 3HIST 339CModern Europe and the Arts3
HIST 339F History of Feminist Thought and Social Action 3THEO 318Christian Thought: Reformation to Modern3
Required Areas: Upper-Level World History Courses
Code Title Hours
Students must take at least one of the courses below as part of the
Required AreasHIST 275AThe Silk Roads: Global Trade, Culture, & Politics3
HIST 278A Violence Drug Trafﬁcking & Crime in Latin America 3HIST 279CHistory of Computing3
HIST 279E Climate and History 3HIST 300ETopics in World History3
HIST 340B Introduction to Islamic History 3HIST 341Modern Middle East3
HIST 341B Arab-Israeli Conflict 3HIST 341CTunisia On-Site: Arab Spring, Democratic Change,
Islam3
HIST 342B African History Post-1600 3HIST 342CThe History of Islam in Africa3
HIST 342D African Diaspora in the Middle East and South Asia 3HIST 342MAfrican Music's Influence on American Music3
HIST 343 Modern South Asia 3HIST 346AEarly Modern China: 1550-18003
HIST 346B Reform & Revolution in China, 1800-1949 3HIST 346CHistory of Christianity in China3
HIST 347A China Since 1949: The People's Republic 3

--- Page 474 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 505HIST 347CCultural Revolution-China3
HIST 347D Modern Chinese History through Film 3HIST 349Contemporary Global Issues: Historical
Perspectives3
HIST 349A Women in East Asia 3HIST 350Colonial Latin America3
HIST 351 Latin American Independence, 1750-1830 3HIST 352Latin America in the 19th Century3
HIST 353 Latin America in Recent Times 3HIST 355The Caribbean & Central America in Colonial/
Modern Times3
HIST 356 Mexican History-Ancient to Modern Times 3HIST 357The Mexican Revolution in Popular Imagination3
HIST 358 Women in Latin American History 3HIST 359Teaching World History3
HIST 359C Nationalist Politics: A Global Perspective 3HIST 359DThe Ottoman Empire: A Global Perspective3
HIST 359E Concentration Camps: A Global History 3HIST 359FGenocides in the Modern World3
HIST 359H Anti-Colonial Resistance in the Twentieth Century 3
Required Areas: Upper-Level U.S. History Courses
Code Title Hours
Students must take at least one of the courses below as part of the
Required AreasHIST 280APirates and Sailors in the Revolutionary Atlantic3
HIST 290A History of Sexuality in the United States 3HIST 291AAmerican Icons: Heroes, Images, Ideas3
HIST 297E North American Environmental History 3HIST 298AHistory and the Public: Intro to Public History3
HIST 300D Topics in U.S. History 3HIST 360Community and Culture in Colonial America3
HIST 360A Slavery and Abolition: Then & Now 3HIST 361The American Revolution, 1763-18153
HIST 362 America in the Age of Slavery and Capitalism 3HIST 363Civil War & Reconstruction 1850-18773
HIST 366A World War I and American Culture 3HIST 367United States from Great Depression to Recession3
HIST 369 20th Century Popular Culture 3HIST 370American Business, Wealth, and Inequality3
HIST 372 American Constitutional & Legal History to 1865 3HIST 373US Law & Public Policy3
HIST 373A Crime and Punishment 3HIST 374Black Politics3
HIST 375 Digital History 3HIST 376History of the American Frontier Movement3
HIST 376A History of the American Indian 3HIST 377African American Women's History3
HIST 378 Latina/o History 3HIST 379AItalian Americans in World War II3
HIST 379B History of Italians in Chicago 3HIST 380Introduction to African-American History3
HIST 380A Islam in the African-American Experience 3HIST 381Rebels & Reformers in U.S. History3
HIST 382 Teaching Race, Class, and Gender 3HIST 384Irish Diaspora in America3
HIST 385 Chicago in America 3HIST 386Creation the American Metropolis3
HIST 388 U.S. Wars 3HIST 388AVietnam War3
HIST 389B Topic: Gender, Race, & Class in US History 3HIST 389CGender Benders3
HIST 389F The Sixties 3HIST 389KAutobiography and Memoir in Recent US History3
HIST 389N Anti-Immigrant Politics in U.S. History 3HIST 389WRaces to the White House: Presidential History3
ECON 327 American Economic & Business History 3
Optional Concentrations
History Majors have the option to declare a concentration, an area of
interest. A concentration consists of at least three courses focused
on a particular theme. Concentrations include: War & Peace; Law &
Government; Gender, Sexuality, & Race; Teaching History; Globalization,
Social Justice, & Human Rights; and Cultural & Intellectual His tory
  Students may also build their own geographic or period-based
concentration in consultation with their departmental adviser.
Portfolio
Every history major must build a portfolio over the course of his/her
undergraduate studies. The student must upload the two required
documents  listed below to a History Department website by Friday of the
last week of classes prior to graduation.  For more information, please
contact the History Department Undergraduate Program Director.  The
required documents are:
1.A historiographical essay (typically a paper from  HIST 299 Historical
Methods ). This paper must both summarize and evaluate historians’
principal arguments about a particular topic.
2.A 300-level Research Paper with a bibliography . This paper --- a
minimum of 12-15 pages, usually from a 300-level course --- makes
use of both primary and secondary sources to prove a historical
thesis. All good historical writing has a thesis that the author seeks
to establish through interpretation of the primary source evidence. In
lieu of uploading a 300-level research paper, students have the option
of submitting a platform appropriate project such as a public history
or digital history project that makes an analytical argument based on
both primary and secondary sources to prove a historical thesis. 
Students should submit papers or projects that showcase their best
work.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study. While there is no set sequence of
classes, students are encouraged to take at least two Introductory (Core)
Courses before taking upper division classes. It is strongly suggested
that students take  HIST 299 Historical Methods  at the end of their
sophomore or beginning of their junior year. Once students have declared
the major, they are encouraged to contact their History Advisor or the
History Department’s Undergraduate Program Director, Kelly O'Connor

--- Page 475 ---
506  History Minor
at kocon6@luc.edu  for further guidance on how best to progress with
their studies.
Course Title Hours
Freshman
FallFoundational Historical Knowledge Course3 Hours3
SpringTier 2 Historical Knowledge Course3 Hours3
Sophomore
FallUpper-level US History Course (see course list below)3 Hours3
Spring
HIST 299 Historical Methods 3History Elective3 Hours6
Junior
FallUpper-level World History (see course list below)3History Elective3 Hours6
Spring
Upper-level Pre-Modern History (see course list below) 3History Elective3 Hours6
Senior
FallUpper-Level Modern Europe (see course list below)3History Elective3 Hours6
SpringHistory Elective3 Hours3 Total Hours36
Residency Requirements
•At least 6 courses for this major must be successfully completed in
residence at Loyola University Chicago.
•At least 4 300-level courses for this major must be successfully
completed in residence at Loyola University Chicago.
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Produce analytical arguments by using evidence and facts to
interpret past events, behavior and processes in their own historical
writing and projects.
•Identify the arguments put forth by historians in order to compare,
evaluate and criticize different interpretations of the past. In doing
so, our graduates will be able to evaluate the adequacy of evidence
(including a variety of sources: documents, ﬁlms, diaries, images, oral
and digital histories, etc.) that historians use to make truth claims
about the past.
•Demonstrate an understanding of the processes of historical change
and be able to discuss and evaluate causes, complexities and
consequences of change over time in relationship to historical events
and processes.
•Demonstrate an understanding that human values and beliefs are
shaped by historical context and they will gain the capacity to make
informed judgements about past and present behavior and ideas
with a goal of fashioning a more just world. In this endeavor, students
will gain an understanding of the ethical practices and standards for
historical research and writing.
History Minor
The minor in history, in conjunction with a major in a related ﬁeld, will
provide historical understandings desirable for a well-grounded liberal
arts degree, the preferred background for admission to most professional
programs.
Related Programs
Major
•History (BA)  (p. 503)
Combined
•History (BA/MA)  (p. 1240 )
•History/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1245 )
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Introductory (Core) CoursesSelect two of the following:6
HIST 101 Cultures, Powers, and Identities: Western Ideas
and Institutions to 1700HIST 102Cultures, Powers, and Identities: Western Ideas
and Institutions since 1700HIST 103 American Pluralism (203)HIST 104Global History Since 1500 (204)HIST 208 East Asian History: Themes & IssuesHIST 209Islamic History: Themes & Issues

--- Page 476 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 507
HIST 210 Latin American History: Themes & IssuesHIST 211US History to 1865: Themes & IssuesHIST 212 US History since 1865: Themes & IssuesHIST 213African History: Themes & IssuesRequired AreasSelect two 300-level courses from the list below:6
Any HIST 300-Level Course  1CLST 362Roman LawECON 327 American Economic & Business HistoryTHEO 317Christian Thought: Ancient-MedievalTHEO 318 Christian Thought: Reformation to ModernElectivesSelect any two additional 3-hour classes  26Total Hours18
1For a complete list of 300-Level courses, see History Courses
(p. 487).
2These can be introductory (History 100-Level & HIST  205 - HIST  213)
OR Upper-level (HIST  250 - HIST  299, History 300-Level; or  CLST 362 ;
ECON 327 ; THEO 317 ; or THEO 318 ).
Suggested Sequence of Courses
Students can begin the History Minor (HIST -MINR) at any point in their
undergraduate studies, in consultation with their advisor.  While there is
no set sequence of classes, students are encouraged to take at least two
introductory classes (HIST  101 - HIST  213) before taking upper division
classes. Once students have declared the minor, they are encouraged to
contact the History Department’s Undergraduate Program Director for
further guidance on how best to progress with their studies.
Course Title Hours
Freshman
FallIntroductory (Core) Course #13 Hours3
SpringIntroductory (Core) Course #2  Hours0
Sophomore
FallElective #1  13 Hours3
Junior
FallHIST 300-Level Course #1  Hours0
SpringHIST 300-Level Course #23 Hours3Senior
FallElective #2  13 Hours3 Total Hours12
1This course could also be taken in Spring term instead.
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Learning Outcomes
•Produce analytical arguments by using evidence and facts to
interpret past events, behavior and processes in their own historical
writing and projects.
•Identify the arguments put forth by historians in order to compare,
evaluate and criticize different interpretations of the past. In doing
so, our graduates will be able to evaluate the adequacy of evidence
(including a variety of sources: documents, ﬁlms, diaries, images, oral
and digital histories, etc.) that historians use to make truth claims
about the past.
•Demonstrate an understanding of the processes of historical change
and be able to discuss and evaluate causes, complexities and
consequences of change over time in relationship to historical events
and processes.
•Demonstrate an understanding that human values and beliefs are
shaped by historical context and they will gain the capacity to make
informed judgements about past and present behavior and ideas
with a goal of fashioning a more just world. In this endeavor, students
will gain an understanding of the ethical practices and standards for
historical research and writing.
Honors in History
Honors Program
The Department of History's honors program recognizes the work of
outstanding History Majors and gives them an opportunity to dig deeper
in the discipline. It is not the same as collegiate honors, and students
do not need to belong to collegiate honors in order to participate in this
program. Students are invited to apply to the history honors program
during their junior year. The qualiﬁcations for the program are as follows:
•History major
•3.67 GPA in history courses
•3.50 overall GPA
•Completion of HIST 397 History Honors Tutorial
The required GPAs include courses taken elsewhere if the credits have
been transferred. The major with History Honors consists of a total of
twelve (12) courses (36 hours). HIST 397 History Honors Tutorial  is
typically offered in the Fall Semester. Students are invited to take the
Tutorial at the end of their sophomore and/or junior years. The Tutorial
involves writing a research paper, based on primary sources, of about
20–30 pages. The results of this research are presented in a short oral

--- Page 477 ---
508  Honors in History
presentation at a ﬁnal class to which friends, family, and other faculty are
invited.
Here is the honors history major program in schematic form:
Code Title Hours
Introductory (Core) CoursesSelect two courses, one from each of the following categories:6
Tier 1 Foundational Historical KnowledgeHIST 101Culture, Power and Identity: Western Ideas &
Institutions to 17th CenturyHIST 102 Culture, Power and Identity: Western Ideas &
Institutions from 17th CenturyHIST 103American PluralismHIST 104 Global History Since 1500HONR 101Western Traditions - Antiquity to the Middle AgesHONR 102 Western Traditions-Renaissance to ModernityTier 2 Historical KnowledgeHIST 208 East Asian History: Themes & IssuesHIST 209Survey of Islamic HistoryHIST 210 Latin American History: Themes & IssuesHIST 211US History to 1865: Themes & IssuesHIST 212 US History since 1865: Themes & IssuesHIST 213African History: Themes & IssuesSelected Honors Courses: HONR 203A, HONR 203B, HONR 203C,
HONR 208A, HONR 208B, HONR 208C, HONR 209A, HONR 209B,
HONR 209C, HONR 210A, HONR 210B, HONR 210C, HONR 212A,
HONR 212B, HONR 212CMethods CourseHIST 299 Historical Methods 3
or INDS 380 Newberry SeminarRequired Areas  1Select four Upper-Level Courses, one from each of the following: 12Upper-Level Pre-Modern History  (p. 508) (see descriptions
below)Upper-Level Modern European History  (p. 508) (see descriptions
below)Upper-Level World History  (p. 509) (see descriptions below)Upper-Level U.S. History  (p. 509) (see descriptions below)Elective Courses  1Any Four History Courses 12Courses Required for Honors ProgramHIST 397History Honors Tutorial (writing intensive)3Total Hours36
1A total of four 300-level courses required. In addition to HIST 397,
students must take at least three 300-level courses among their
Required Areas and Electives.
Required Areas: Upper-Level Pre-Modern History
Courses
Code Title Hours
Students must take at least one of the courses below as part of the
Required AreasHIST 253ABarbarians and the Fall of the Roman Empire3HIST 254A The Vikings 3HIST 257AWitchcraft and Science in Pre-Modern Europe3
HIST 258A Blood, Heresy, and Treason: The Tudors and
Stuarts3HIST 300BTopics in Premodern History3
HIST 301 Plagues: The Black Death and Other Pandemics 3HIST 303Pre-Industrial City in Europe3
HIST 307 Greece to Alexander the Great 3HIST 308AHistory of Rome to Constantine3
HIST 308B Pompeii and Herculaneum 3HIST 308CHistory of Early Christianity3
HIST 308D Transformations of Rome in Late Antiquity 3HIST 309Shipwreck Archaeology3
HIST 310 The Middle Ages 3HIST 310AMedieval World 1100-15003
HIST 310B Medieval Culture 3HIST 310CMedieval Women3
HIST 310D Medieval Popular Religion 3HIST 310FMedieval Inquisitions and Heresy3
HIST 310G Supernatural in the Middle Ages 3HIST 310LLove and Violence in Medieval Culture and Society3
HIST 311B The Crusades: Christianity and Islam 3HIST 312England to 14853
HIST 314 Renaissance 3HIST 314AThe Jesuits: Life and History3
HIST 315 The Reformation 3HIST 316History of Poland3
HIST 317 Age of Absolutism & the Enlightenment 3HIST 318AEarly Modern England 1485-17603
HIST 318B English Social History 1450-1750 3HIST 318CLondon 1550 - 17153
HIST 342A African History to 1600 3HIST 345ATraditional China from Antiquity to 15503
CLST 362 Roman Law 3THEO 317Christian Thought: Ancient-Medieval3
Required Areas: Upper-Level Modern Europe Courses
Code Title Hours
Students must take at least one of the courses below as part of the
Required AreasHIST 265AThe First World War3
HIST 267A Modern German Culture and Ideas I 3HIST 267BModern German Culture and Ideas II3
HIST 300C Topics in European History (Post-1700) 3HIST 320Era French Revolution & Napoleon3
HIST 321 19th Century European Culture and Ideas 3HIST 322Modern France: From Empire to Postcolonial
Nation3
HIST 324 Italy 19th & 20th Centuries 3HIST 325Modern Britain: Empire, Industry, Democracy3
HIST 325A The British Empire: From Barbados to Brexit 3HIST 326Ireland: Colony to Nation State3
HIST 327A The Balkans: History, Fiction, Film 3

--- Page 478 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 509HIST 328Russia Pre-1917: Empire Building3
HIST 328A Russian Empire and Literature 3HIST 329Women's Sphere in Past Society3
HIST 329C Empire, Sex, Violence: European Colonial History 3HIST 329NModern European Nationalism: Myth and Reality3
HIST 330 Europe in the Age of Catastrophe, 1900-1945 3HIST 330FFascinating Fascism:  1919 to the Present3
HIST 331A Food, Hunger, and Power in the Modern World 3HIST 334AThe Nazi Revolution3
HIST 334B The Holocaust: History and Memory 3HIST 335The Second World War3
HIST 336 Contemporary Europe 1945 to Present 3HIST 337Rise & Fall of Soviet Union3
HIST 337A Women in Russia and Eurasia, 1860-Present 3HIST 338AHistory of European Communism3
HIST 338B Eastern Europe in the 20th Century 3HIST 339CModern Europe and the Arts3
HIST 339F History of Feminist Thought and Social Action 3THEO 318Christian Thought: Reformation to Modern3
Required Areas: Upper-Level World History Courses
Code Title Hours
Students must take at least one of the courses below as part of the
Required AreasHIST 275AThe Silk Roads: Global Trade, Culture, & Politics3
HIST 278A Violence Drug Trafﬁcking & Crime in Latin America 3HIST 279CHistory of Computing3
HIST 279E Climate and History 3HIST 300ETopics in World History3
HIST 340B Introduction to Islamic History 3HIST 341Modern Middle East3
HIST 341B Arab-Israeli Conflict 3HIST 341CTunisia On-Site: Arab Spring, Democratic Change,
Islam3
HIST 342B African History Post-1600 3HIST 342CThe History of Islam in Africa3
HIST 342D African Diaspora in the Middle East and South Asia 3HIST 342MAfrican Music's Influence on American Music3
HIST 343 Modern South Asia 3HIST 346AEarly Modern China: 1550-18003
HIST 346B Reform & Revolution in China, 1800-1949 3HIST 346CHistory of Christianity in China3
HIST 347A China Since 1949: The People's Republic 3HIST 347CCultural Revolution-China3
HIST 347D Modern Chinese History through Film 3HIST 349Contemporary Global Issues: Historical
Perspectives3
HIST 349A Women in East Asia 3HIST 350Colonial Latin America3
HIST 351 Latin American Independence, 1750-1830 3HIST 352Latin America in the 19th Century3
HIST 353 Latin America in Recent Times 3HIST 355The Caribbean & Central America in Colonial/
Modern Times3
HIST 356 Mexican History-Ancient to Modern Times 3HIST 357The Mexican Revolution in Popular Imagination3
HIST 358 Women in Latin American History 3HIST 359Teaching World History3
HIST 359C Nationalist Politics: A Global Perspective 3HIST 359DThe Ottoman Empire: A Global Perspective3
HIST 359E Concentration Camps: A Global History 3HIST 359FGenocides in the Modern World3
HIST 359H Anti-Colonial Resistance in the Twentieth Century 3
Required Areas: Upper-Level U.S. History Courses
Code Title Hours
Students must take at least one of the courses below as part of the
Required AreasHIST 280APirates and Sailors in the Revolutionary Atlantic3
HIST 290A History of Sexuality in the United States 3HIST 291AAmerican Icons: Heroes, Images, Ideas3
HIST 297E North American Environmental History 3HIST 298AHistory and the Public: Intro to Public History3
HIST 300D Topics in U.S. History 3HIST 360Community and Culture in Colonial America3
HIST 360A Slavery and Abolition: Then & Now 3HIST 361The American Revolution, 1763-18153
HIST 362 America in the Age of Slavery and Capitalism 3HIST 363Civil War & Reconstruction 1850-18773
HIST 366A World War I and American Culture 3HIST 367United States from Great Depression to Recession3
HIST 369 20th Century Popular Culture 3HIST 370American Business, Wealth, and Inequality3
HIST 372 American Constitutional & Legal History to 1865 3HIST 373US Law & Public Policy3
HIST 373A Crime and Punishment 3HIST 374Black Politics3
HIST 375 Digital History 3HIST 376History of the American Frontier Movement3
HIST 376A History of the American Indian 3HIST 377African American Women's History3
HIST 378 Latina/o History 3HIST 379AItalian Americans in World War II3
HIST 379B History of Italians in Chicago 3HIST 380Introduction to African-American History3
HIST 380A Islam in the African-American Experience 3HIST 381Rebels & Reformers in U.S. History3
HIST 382 Teaching Race, Class, and Gender 3HIST 384Irish Diaspora in America3
HIST 385 Chicago in America 3HIST 386Creation the American Metropolis3
HIST 388 U.S. Wars 3HIST 388AVietnam War3
HIST 389B Topic: Gender, Race, & Class in US History 3HIST 389CGender Benders3

--- Page 479 ---
510  Human Services
HIST 389F The Sixties 3HIST 389KAutobiography and Memoir in Recent US History3
HIST 389N Anti-Immigrant Politics in U.S. History 3HIST 389WRaces to the White House: Presidential History3
ECON 327 American Economic & Business History 3
Residency Requirements
•At least 6 courses for this major must be successfully completed in
residence at Loyola University Chicago.
•At least 4 300-level courses for this major must be successfully
completed in residence at Loyola University Chicago.
Optional Concentrations
History Majors have the option to declare a concentration, an area of
interest. A concentration consists of at least three courses focused
on a particular theme. Concentrations include: War & Peace; Law &
Government; Gender, Sexuality, & Race; Teaching History; Globalization,
Social Justice, & Human Rights; and Cultural & Intellectual His tory
  Students may also build their own geographic or period-based
concentration in consultation with their departmental adviser.
Portfolio
Every history major must build a portfolio over the course of his/
her undergraduate studies. The student must upload the  two
required  documents  listed below to a History Department website
by Friday of the last week of classes prior to graduation.  For more
information, please contact the History Department Undergraduate
Program Director.  The required documents are:
1.A historiographical essay (typically a paper from  HIST 299 Historical
Methods ). This paper must both summarize and evaluate historians’
principal arguments about a particular topic.
2.A 300-level Research Paper with a  bibliography . This paper --- a
minimum of 12-15 pages, usually from a 300-level course --- makes
use of both primary and secondary sources to prove a historical
thesis. All good historical writing has a thesis that the author seeks
to establish through interpretation of the primary source evidence. In
lieu of uploading a 300-level research paper, students have the option
of submitting a platform appropriate project such as a public history
or digital history project that makes an analytical argument based on
both primary and secondary sources to prove a historical thesis. 
Students should submit papers or projects that showcase their best
work.
Human Services
About Us
Social and human services assistant is a generic term for individuals
with a wide variety of job titles, including human services worker, case
management aide, social work assistant, community support worker,
mental health aide, community outreach worker, life-skills counselor or
gerontology aide.
Human services assistants provide direct and indirect client services
to ensure that individuals in their care reach their maximum level of
functioning. They assess clients’ needs, establish eligibility for public
beneﬁts and help clients obtain them, arrange for transportation and
escorts, monitor and keep case records, organize and lead group
activities, assist clients in need of counseling or crisis inte rvention,administer food banks and emergency fuel programs, help clients with
daily living and communication skills, and provide emotional support.
Although the human services ﬁeld is broad and diverse, it is uniﬁed by
the goal of meeting human needs by applying an interdisciplinary base
of knowledge and skills, focusing on prevention as well as remediation
of problems, and improving the overall quality of life of individuals,
families and communities through direct services to clients. The
human services profession also promotes improved service delivery
systems by addressing the quality of direct services provided and by
seeking to improve accessibility, accountability and coordination among
professionals and agencies in delivering human services.
Undergraduate Programs
•Human Services (BS)  (p. 510)
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Human Services (HMSV)
HMSV 101   Survey of Human Services   (3 Credit Hours)   
Survey of Human Services will cover basic concepts and models of
service delivery in the ﬁeld. Primary emphasis will be on the growth and
evolution of the ﬁeld, types of services and needy populations, and issues
that affect the delivery of human services in the United States.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services   
HMSV 201   Human Services Practice   (3 Credit Hours)   
The purpose of this course is to prepare students for their future work in
HMSV agencies and to introduce them to HMSV clients. The course will
teach students about the basic issues that face HMSV providers and will
help them put a human face on HMSV clients. In addition, the course will
emphasize the importance of client diversity in formulating assessment
and case management strategies for HMSV clients.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
HMSV 390   Supervised Fieldwork II   (6 Credit Hours)   
No course description is available
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Human Services (BS)
The BS in Human Services degree program is a 45-credit-hour
multidisciplinary program that draws courses from ﬁve Loyola
departments: criminal justice, political science, psychology, sociology and
social work.
Emphasizing Loyola's Jesuit, Catholic mission of knowledge in the care
and service of others, coursework focuses on laying a strong foundation
in the liberal arts and sciences while sharpening students' applied skills.
Located near numerous human services organizations and professionals,
the program takes full advantage of Chicago's many resources for
students.

--- Page 480 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 511
Related Programs
Major
•Political Science (BA)  (p. 638)
•Social Work (BSW)  (p. 951)
•Sociology (BA)  (p. 665)
Curriculum
The human services major requires 45 credit hours of coursework,
including:
Code Title Hours
Basic CoursesPSYC 101General Psychology3
HMSV 101 Survey of Human Services 3HMSV 201Human Services Practice3
Select one course in Statistics from the following: 3CJC 206StatisticsPSYC 304 StatisticsSOCL 301Statistics for Social ResearchSelect one course in Research Methods from the following: 3CJC 205Research MethodsPSYC 306 Research Methods in PsychologySOCL 206Principles of Social ResearchSOWK 390 Research and Evaluation in Social Work PracticeSelect one course in Urban Politics from the following:3
PLSC 333 Crossing Borders: The Politics of ImmigrationPLSC 334Urban Policies and ProblemsPLSC 390 Urban Politics
or PLSC 391 Chicago PoliticsSelect one course in Clinical Competency from the following:3
PSYC 368 CounselingSOWK 303Group Work Practice in Social Work: Micro/Mezzo/
MacroSelect one course in Supervised Fieldwork I from the following: 3CJC 390Capstone Experience InternshipPLSC 370 Fieldwork in Political Science-InternshipPSYC 390Internship in Psychologyor SOCL 380Internship
HMSV 390 Supervised Fieldwork II 6Concentration Area CoursesSelect nine credit hours from one of the following three areas: 9Child, Adolescent and Family ServicesCJC 302 Juvenile Justice SystemCJC 395Special TopicsPSYC 238 Gender & Sex Differences & SimilaritiesPSYC 273Developmental PsychologyPSYC 348 Psychology of AdolescenceSOCL 231Childhood and SocietySOCL 240 FamiliesSOWK 205Children and Youth: Systems and ServicesMental HealthCJC 372Race, Ethnicity, and Criminal JusticeCJC 395 Special TopicsPSYC 235Psychology of Human SexualityPSYC 331 PsychopathologyPSYC 346Psychopathology of ChildhoodPSYC 373 Health PsychologySOWK 361Special TopicsGerontology and AgingSOCL 221Sociology and Culture of the Life CourseSOCL 236 Population StudiesElective CoursesSelect two courses (six credit hours), one from each of the following
categories:6Social Solutions and Social ChangeCJC 372 Race, Ethnicity, and Criminal JusticePSYC 275Social PsychologyPSYC 374 Community PsychologySOCL 221Sociology and Culture of the Life CourseSOCL 255 Deviance and Social ControlSOCL 261Social Movements & Social ChangeSOWK 305 Life Span Development, Human Behavior, Trauma,
& TheoryHuman DiversityANTH 102 Culture, Society, and DiversityANTH 100Globalization and Local CulturesPLSC 218 African-American PoliticsPLSC 319Women, Law & Public PolicyPLSC 323 Children, Law & Public PolicyPSYC 235Psychology of Human SexualityPSYC 340 Psychology of WomenPSYC 386Psychology Seminar: Selected TopicsSOCL 122 Race and Ethnic RelationsSOCL 171Sociology of Sex and GenderSOCL 250 Inequality in SocietySOCL 252Global InequalitiesSOCL 272 Environmental SociologySOWK 361Special TopicsSOWK 370Power, Oppression, Privilege, and Social JusticeTotal Hours45
Major Speciﬁc Requirements
In keeping with Loyola's principles of values-based education, students
take two service-learning courses. These classes, which pair classroom
learning with active service in the community, may be selected from the
list of basic, concentration or elective courses, or from courses outside
the major.
Students obtain hands-on experience through two required ﬁeldwork
courses. A three-hour course introduces students to the operations of
human services agencies, the mechanics of service delivery and the
fundamentals of client contact. A six-hour course immerses students in
agencies for more extensive and in-depth skills training and direct client
contact.
To further ensure that the education of students will be both well-rounded
and content-speciﬁc, all human services majors are required to minor

--- Page 481 ---
512  Interdisciplinary Honors Program
in one of the major's ﬁve constituent ﬁelds: criminal justice, political
science, psychology, sociology or social work. Also, students must take
at least one course from each of these ﬁve departments; and for students
who double major in human services and one of these departments, no
more than six courses may count for both majors.
In addition to fulﬁlling major requirements to earn an undergraduate
degree (usually 120 credit hours), students complete Loyola's Core
Curriculum  (p. 1405 ), which teaches them important skills and values,
and develop their own interests by taking general electives.
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Interdisciplinary Honors Program
Academics
Interdisciplinary in design and international in scope, Loyola’s Honors
Program offers a dynamic general education that enables our students
to bring many perspectives to real world problem-solving, in the Jesuit
tradition. Faculty craft intensive courses that reﬁne analytical and
communication skills. The formal curriculum is supplemented with many
cultural excursions and service opportunities.
Requirements
•The program requires 27 credit hours (9 classes) of honors courses.
•All honors courses must be completed with a grade of "C" or bet ter.
•Students must have an overall GPA of 3.33 or better to graduate with
honors.
•For more information on core requirements, visit Honors and the Core
(p. 1417 ).
Honors courses differ in structure and content from non-honors courses,
and these courses are offered in a sequence. Honors students must
complete the following courses:
Code Title Hours
Course RequirementsHONR 101 
& HONR D101Western Traditions - Antiquity to the Middle Ages 
and Developments Western Thought I Discussion
16
HONR 102 
& HONR D102Western Traditions-Renaissance to Modernity 
and Developments in Historical Western Thought
II Discussion  26U.S. Experience (Anytime after 1st year)  33HONR 203 The United States Experience 3Science and Society (Choose one of the following)  33
HONR 204 Science and Society 3Area Studies (Two of the following courses anytime after 1st year)  36
HONR 208 Encountering Latin America and the Caribbean 3HONR 209Encountering Asia3
HONR 210 Encountering Africa 3HONR 212Encountering the Middle East3
HONR 216 Encountering Contemporary Europe 3Capstone  4HONR 301 Honors Capstone: Moral Responsibility 3
1Course taken Fall Freshman Year.
2Course taken Spring Freshman Year.
3Course taken any time after 1st year.  Students can take HONR 203,
HONR 204, and the area studies in any order they desire.
4Course taken 2nd semester of Junior year or during Senior year. 
Student must have 75 or more credit hours.
Program Description
Since 1936, the Honors Program has provided an enriched educational
experience for the university’s most talented students. Only a small
percentage of freshmen are invited into the program each year.  Honors
students are academically and professionally aspirational and ethical
leaders in their communities.
The Curriculum
Interdisciplinary in design and international in scope, Loyola’s Honors
Program offers a dynamic general education that enables our students
to bring many perspectives to real world problem-solving, in the Jesuit
tradition. Faculty craft intensive courses that reﬁne analytic and
communication skills. The formal curriculum is supplemented with many
cultural excursions and service opportunities. You can read more about
our award-winning teaching faculty on our website  (https://www.luc.edu/
honors/ ).
The Beneﬁts
As an Honors student, you will come into contact with Loyola’s most
effective teachers, our most exciting researchers, and, of course,
our most talented students. You’ll beneﬁt from priority registration
each semester; individualized advising; small class sizes; and faculty
mentorship. As the highest academic distinction awarded by the
university, the Honors Degree commands special acknowledgement.
Candidates are identiﬁed separately in the commencement program, and
the ofﬁcial transcript identiﬁes all Honors courses.
The Freshman Year Experience
Honors Freshmen are housed at Francis Hall and Regis Hall, modern
facilities located on the southern end of campus, close to the lake and the
city. In residence, you’ll have many opportunities to connect intellectually
and socially with students majoring in ﬁelds from across the university
and joining us from across the US and the globe. Together, you and your
friends will make your way through the Honors Freshman Seminars,
reading Darwin’s The Origin of Species  and visiting the Art Institute of
Chicago as a group. You can learn more about the freshman Honors
residence experience here  (https://www.luc.edu/honors/community/
honorsresidenceexperience/ ).

--- Page 482 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 513
For more information on our dynamic community and program, look
through the online issues of the Honors Magazine  (https://www.luc.edu/
honors/honorsmagazine/ ).
University Policies
Please see University Policies for academic policies that supersede those
of academic units within the University
Honors (HONR)
HONR D101   Developments Western Thought I Discussion   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This is the discussion section that complements the Honors Freshman
lecture course on the Western Intellectual Traditions: Antiquity to the
Middle Ages. All students enrolled in HONR 101 must also be enrolled in a
section of HONR D101.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HONRD101/CATH101D   
HONR D102   Developments in Historical Western Thought II
Discussion   (3 Credit Hours)   
This is the discussion section that complements the Honors Freshman
lecture course on the Western Intellectual Traditions: the Renaissance to
Modernism. All students enrolled in HONR 102 must also be enrolled in a
section of HONR D102.
HONR 101   Western Traditions - Antiquity to the Middle Ages   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course,(and its companion, HONR 102), opens perspectives on
works that have shaped the self-understanding of the Western intellectual
tradition. An interdisciplinary team of professors examines these
works from a variety of disciplinary paradigms. Students will examine
the recurring questions the works pose to each other and to our own
culture: questions about the nature of human existence and destiny,
and the characteristic problems and possibilities of humanity's struggle
for justice, search for truth and hunger for beauty. These courses are
structured as three hours of lecture and three hours of seminar each
semester.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-HONR10/CATH102   
Outcomes:
Studying a selection of major works from antiquity to the present,
students learn how each text reflects its own period, how texts within
each period present different views, and how ideas change over time;
Written and visual expressions of these themes are examined in relation
to the political and cultural background of each period: Ancient Greece
and Rome, the Middle Ages, the Renaissance, the Enlightenment, the
Romantic Period and modernismHONR 102   Western Traditions-Renaissance to Modernity   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course (and its companion, HONR 101) opens perspectives on works
that have shaped the self-understanding of the West. An interdisciplinary
team of professors examines these works from a variety of disciplinary
paradigms. Students will examine the recurring questions the works
pose to each other and to our own culture: questions about the nature
of human existence and destiny, and the characteristic problems and
possibilities of humanity's struggle for justice, search for truth and
hunger for beauty. These courses are structured as three hours of lecture
and three hours of seminar each semester.
Outcomes:
Studying a selection of major works from antiquity to the present,
students learn how each text reflects its own period, how texts within
each period present different views, and how ideas change over time;
Written and visual expressions of these themes are examined in relation
to the political and cultural background of each period: Ancient Greece
and Rome, the Middle Ages, the Renaissance, the Enlightenment, the
Romantic Period and modernism
HONR 203   The United States Experience   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, HONR D102   
Restricted to students in the Honors Program This course examines the
formation and development of the United States. Focusing on selected
topics, students learn how much is at stake in competing versions of
the past. Students read influential political, literary and historical texts.
Professors will introduce students to various ways of understanding the
United States experience.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the various
ways in which the distinctive U.S. experience has been presented;
Students will learn to use available public sources to conduct research on
aspects of the American experience
HONR 203A   The United States Experience   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102   
Restricted to students in the Honors Program. This course examines
the question, "Who are we in the United States of America?" Students
approach this question using multiple texts and visual materials that
address social, political, and cultural aspects of the U.S. experience.
The course illustrates the main contours of American society and the
American story and explores the ways in which our self-image as a
people reflects and contradicts reality.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Historical Knowledge   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the role of key historical processes such as the
frontier experience, industrialization, immigration, religious pluralism, and
the struggle for equality in the development of a distinctive American
story; They will learn to use available public sources to conduct research
on aspects of the American experience

--- Page 483 ---
514  Interdisciplinary Honors Program
HONR 203B   The United States Experience   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102   
Restricted to students in the Honors Program. This course examines
the question, "Who are we in the United States of America?" Students
approach this question using multiple texts and visual materials that
address social, political, and cultural aspects of the U.S. experience.
The course illustrates the main contours of American society and the
American story and explores the ways in which our self-image as a
people reflects and contradicts reality.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the role of key social processes such as the
frontier experience, industrialization, immigration, religious pluralism, and
the struggle for equality in the development of a distinctive American
story; They will learn to use available public sources to conduct research
on aspects of the American experience
HONR 203C   The United States Experience   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102   
Restricted to students in the Honors Program. This course examines
the question, "Who are we in the United States of America?" Students
explore the multiple ways in which key American experiences such as the
western expansion, industrialization, immigration, religious pluralism, and
the struggle for equality are reflected in its ﬁction and drama.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the various
ways in which the distinctive U.S. experience has been presented in its
literature; they will be able to analyze and defend interpretations of a
variety of literary texts
HONR 204   Science and Society   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Prerequisite HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, HONR
D102   
Restricted to Honors students. Students will examine the ways natural
science and social science address a particular issue as well as the
effects of science on society. They will study scientiﬁc ways of knowing
and organizing knowledge, and demonstrate the capacity to make
reasoned and ethical judgments about the impact of science on society.
Outcomes:
Students will learn scientiﬁc principles and methods of producing
knowledge and to make reasoned and ethical judgments about the
impact of science on the individual, community and society
HONR 204A   Science and Society   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Restricted to Honors students   
Students will examine the ways natural science and social science
address particular issues as well as the effects of science on society.
They will study the history of science and scientiﬁc ways of knowing, and
demonstrate the capacity to make reasoned and ethical judgments about
the impact of science on society.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Historical Knowledge   
Outcomes:
Students will learn the history of scientiﬁc principles and methods of
producing knowledge and to make reasoned and ethical judgments about
the impact of science on the individual, community and societyHONR 204B   Science and Society   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102   
Restricted to students in the Honors Program. Students will examine the
ways natural science and social science address a particular issue as
well as the effects of science on society. They will study scientiﬁc ways
of knowing and organizing knowledge, and demonstrate the capacity to
make reasoned and ethical judgments about the impact of science on
society.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Outcomes:
Students will learn scientiﬁc principles and methods of producing
knowledge and to make reasoned and ethical judgments about the
impact of science on the individual, community and society
HONR 204D   Science and Society   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102   
Restricted to students in the Honors Program. Students will examine the
ways natural science and social science address a particular issue as
well as the effects of science on society. They will learn scientiﬁc ways
of knowing and organizing knowledge and demonstrate the capacity to
make reasoned and ethical judgments about the impact of science on
society.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Scientiﬁc Knowledge   
Outcomes:
Students will learn scientiﬁc principles and methods of producing
knowledge and to make reasoned and ethical judgments about the
impact of science on the individual, community and society
HONR 204E   Science and Society   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102   
Restricted to students in the Honors Program. Students will examine the
ways natural science and social science address a particular issue as
well as the effects of science on society. They will learn scientiﬁc ways
of knowing and organizing knowledge, and demonstrate the capacity to
make reasoned and ethical judgments about the impact of science on
society.
Knowledge Area:  Quantitative Knowledge   
Outcomes:
Students will learn quantitative methods of producing knowledge and to
make reasoned and ethical judgments about the impact of science on the
individual, community and society
HONR 208   Encountering Latin America and the Caribbean   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102   
Restricted to students in the Honors Program. This course introduces
students to the history and culture of selected nations of Latin America
and the Caribbean. Students will study signiﬁcant ideas and events
that have shaped this area. These might include indigenous cultures,
colonization, slavery, race relations, independence and revolutionary
movements, economic dependency and political instability.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the relationships among cultural, economic,
political, and social forces, and their impact on human behavior; Students
will become aware of variations in human values and behavior, ideas of
justice, and shared understandings in unfamiliar cultures

--- Page 484 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 515
HONR 208A   Encountering Latin America and the Caribbean   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102   
Restricted to students in the Honors Program. This course introduces
students to the history and culture of selected nations of Latin America
and the Caribbean. Students will study signiﬁcant ideas and events
that have shaped this area. These might include indigenous cultures,
colonization, slavery, race relations, independence and revolutionary
movements, economic dependency and political instability. Students
will understand the relationships among cultural, economic, political,
and social forces, and their impact on human behavior. They will become
aware of variations in human values and behavior, ideas of justice, and
shared understandings in unfamiliar cultures.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Historical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
HONR 208B   Encountering Latin America and the Caribbean   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102   
This course introduces students to the history and culture of selected
nations of Latin America and the Caribbean. Students will study
signiﬁcant ideas and events that have shaped this area. These might
include indigenous cultures, colonization, slavery, race relations,
independence and revolutionary movements, economic dependency and
political instability. Restricted to students in the Honors Program.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the relationships among cultural, economic,
political, and social forces, and their impact on human behavior; They
will become aware of variations in human values and behavior, ideas of
justice, and shared understandings in unfamiliar cultures
HONR 208C   Encountering Latin America and the Caribbean   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102; Restricted to students in the Honors Program   
This course introduces students to the literature of selected nations
of Latin America and the Caribbean. Students will study the multiple
ways in which indigenous cultures, colonization, slavery, race relations,
independence and revolutionary movements, economic dependency and
political instability are reflected in the region's ﬁction and drama.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the various
ways in which human identities and values have been presented in
literature; they will be able to analyze and defend interpretations of a
variety of literary textsHONR 209   Encountering Asia   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102; Restricted to students in the Honors Program   
This course will introduce students to various regions in Asia and some
of the fundamental components of Asian civilizations as they have
evolved historically and persist in the modern world. Regions might
include East, South and Southeast Asia.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will learn different methods of interpreting cultural, economic,
political, and social forces, and their impact on human behavior; Students
will become aware of variations in human identities and values, ideas of
justice, and shared understandings in unfamiliar cultures
HONR 209A   Encountering Asia   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102; Restricted to students in the Honors Program   
This course will introduce students to various regions in Asia and some
of the fundamental components of Asian civilizations as they have
evolved historically and persist in the modern world. Regions might
include East, South and Southeast Asia.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Historical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will learn different methods of interpreting cultural, economic,
political, and social forces, and their impact on human behavior; They
will become aware of variations in human identities and values, ideas of
justice, and shared understandings in unfamiliar cultures
HONR 209B   Encountering Asia   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102; Restricted to students in the Honors Program   
This course will introduce students to various regions in Asia and some
of the fundamental components of Asian civilizations as they have
evolved historically and persist in the modern world. Regions might
include East, South and Southeast Asia.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will learn different methods of interpreting cultural, economic,
political, and social forces, and their impact on human behavior; They
will become aware of variations in human identities and values, ideas of
justice, and shared understandings in unfamiliar cultures
HONR 209C   Encountering Asia   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102; Restricted to students in the Honors Program   
This course will introduce students to the literature of various regions in
Asia. Students read representative literary texts, exploring cross-cultural
linkages and influences within Asia as a whole as well the dist inctive
characteristics of individual societies.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the various
ways in which human identities and values have been presented in
literature; they will be able to analyze and defend interpretations of a
variety of literary texts

--- Page 485 ---
516  Interdisciplinary Honors Program
HONR 210   Encountering Africa   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102; Restricted to students in the Honors Program   
This course introduces students to various regions in Africa and some
of the fundamental components of African civilizations as they have
evolved historically and persist in the modern world. These might include
classical African civilizations, origins of the slave trade, agriculture,
ethnicities, colonialism, nationalism, the modern state.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Islamic World Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will learn different methods of interpreting cultural, economic,
political, and social forces, and their impact on human behavior; Students
will become aware of variations in human identities and values, ideas of
justice, and shared understandings in unfamiliar cultures
HONR 210A   Encountering Africa   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102; Restricted to students in the Honors Program   
This course introduces students to various regions in Africa and some
of the fundamental components of African civilizations as they have
evolved historically and persist in the modern world. These might include
classical African civilizations, origins of the slave trade, agriculture,
ethnicities, colonialism, nationalism, the modern state.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Historical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Islamic World Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will learn different methods of interpreting cultural, economic,
political, and social forces, and their impact on human behavior; They
will become aware of variations in human identities and values, ideas of
justice, and shared understandings in unfamiliar cultures
HONR 210B   Encountering Africa   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102; Restricted to students in the Honors Program   
This course introduces students to various regions in Africa and some
of the fundamental components of African civilizations as they have
evolved historically and persist in the modern world. These might include
classical African civilizations, origins of the slave trade, agriculture,
ethnicities, colonialism, nationalism, the modern state.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Islamic World Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will learn different methods of interpreting cultural, economic,
political, and social forces, and their impact on human behavior; They
will become aware of variations in human identities and values, ideas of
justice, and shared understandings in unfamiliar cultures
HONR 210C   Encountering Africa   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102; Restricted to students in the Honors Program   
This course introduces students to the literature of various regions
in Africa. Topics might include the multiple ways in which classical
African civilizations, the slave trade, agriculture, ethnicities, colonialism,
nationalism, the modern state are reflected in the region's ﬁction or
drama.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Islamic World Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the various
ways in which human identities and values have been presented in
literature; they will be able to analyze and defend interpretations of a
variety of literary textsHONR 212   Encountering the Middle East   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102; Restricted to students in the Honors Program   
This course introduces students to various regions in the Middle East and
some of the components of selected civilizations in this region as they
have evolved historically and persist in the modern world. Topics might
include monotheistic religions, the Ottoman Empire, Islamic culture,
creation of the modern system of states after the First World War, the
place of women in Middle Eastern societies, urban and rural cul tures, the
political and economic consequences of water scarcity and oil wealth.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Islamic World Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will learn different methods of interpreting cultural, economic,
political, and social forces, and their impact on human behavior; Students
will become aware of variations in human identities and values, ideas of
justice, and methods of interpretation in unfamiliar cultures
HONR 212A   Encountering the Middle East   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102; Restricted to students in the Honors Program   
This course introduces students to various regions in the Middle East and
some of the components of selected civilizations in this region as they
have evolved historically and persist in the modern world. Topics might
include monotheistic religions, the Ottoman Empire, Islamic culture,
creation of the modern system of states after the First World War, the
place of women in Middle Eastern societies, urban and rural cul tures, the
political and economic consequences of water scarcity and oil wealth.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Historical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Islamic World Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will learn different methods of interpreting cultural, economic,
political, and social forces, and their impact on human behavior; They
will become aware of variations in human identities and values, ideas of
justice, and methods of interpretation in unfamiliar cultures
HONR 212B   Encountering the Middle East   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102; Restricted to students in the Honors Program   
This course introduces students to various regions in the Middle East and
some of the components of selected civilizations in this region as they
have evolved historically and persist in the modern world. Topics might
include monotheistic religions, the Ottoman Empire, Islamic culture,
creation of the modern system of states after the First World War, the
place of women in Middle Eastern societies, urban and rural cul tures, the
political and economic consequences of water scarcity and oil wealth.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Islamic World Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will learn different methods of interpreting cultural, economic,
political, and social forces, and their impact on human behavior; They
will become aware of variations in human identities and values, ideas of
justice, and methods of interpretation in unfamiliar cultures

--- Page 486 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 517
HONR 212C   Encountering the Middle East   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102; Restricted to students in the Honors Program   
This course introduces students to various regions in the Middle East and
some of the components of selected civilizations in this region as they
have evolved historically and persist in the modern world. Topics might
include monotheistic religions, the Ottoman Empire, Islamic culture,
creation of the modern system of states after the First World War, the
place of women in Middle Eastern societies, urban and rural cul tures, the
political and economic consequences of water scarcity and oil wealth.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Islamic World Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will learn different methods of interpreting cultural, economic,
political, and social forces, and their impact on human behavior; They
will become aware of variations in human identities and values, ideas of
justice, and methods of interpretation in unfamiliar cultures
HONR 216   Encountering Contemporary Europe   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102; Restricted to students in the Honors Program   
This course introduces students to selected areas of Europe as they have
evolved since World War II. Topics might include Europe's cultural history,
nationalism, the European Union, immigration, economic development,
and political life. Professors introduce students to various ways of
approaching an area with many languages, ethnicities, nation-states and
religions.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will learn different methods of interpreting cultural, economic,
political, and social forces, and their impact on human behavior; Students
will become aware of variations in human identities and values, ideas of
justice, and shared understandings in unfamiliar cultures
HONR 216A   Encountering Contemporary Europe   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102; Restricted to students in the Honors Program   
This course introduces students to selected areas of Europe as they have
evolved since World War II. Topics might include Europe's cultural history,
nationalism, the European Union, immigration, economic development,
and political life. Professors introduce students to various ways of
approaching an area with many languages, ethnicities, nation-states and
religions.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Historical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will learn different methods of interpreting cultural, economic,
political, and social forces, and their impact on human behavior; They
will become aware of variations in human identities and values, ideas of
justice, and shared understandings in unfamiliar culturesHONR 216B   Encountering Contemporary Europe   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102; Restricted to students in the Honors Program   
This course introduces students to selected areas of Europe as they have
evolved since World War II. Topics might include Europe's cultural history,
nationalism, the European Union, immigration, economic development,
and political life. Professors introduce students to various ways of
approaching an area with many languages, ethnicities, nation-states and
religions.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will learn different methods of interpreting cultural, economic,
political, and social forces, and their impact on human behavior; They
will become aware of variations in human identities and values, ideas of
justice, and shared understandings in unfamiliar cultures
HONR 216C   Encountering Contemporary Europe   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102; Restricted to students in the Honors Program   
This course introduces students to European literature as it has
evolved since World War II. Topics might include the various ways in
which Europe's cultural history, nationalism, immigration, economic
development, and political life are reflected in its ﬁction and drama.
Professors introduce students to various ways of approaching an area
with many languages, ethnicities, nation-states and religions.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the various
ways in which human identities and values have been presented in
literature; they will be able to analyze and defend interpretations of a
variety of literary texts
HONR 290   Literacy Center   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Students in or beyond their second semester; UCWR 110 or
equivalent   
This course offers training and practical experience in tutoring adults in
written and spoken English in a volunteer literacy program. Students will
be able to demonstrate understanding of societal and cultural factors
affecting literacy, and will develop communication and critical thinking
skills.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
HONR 301   Honors Capstone: Moral Responsibility   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is the capstone of the Interdisciplinary Honors Program
and may be taught from the disciplinary perspectives of philosophy or
theology. Students will be able to analyze ethical theories and to apply
principles of ethical reasoning and individual moral responsibility to
contemporary social issues and questions that arise in everyday life.
Students must have 75 credit hours or more to enroll.
Knowledge Area:  Ethics   
HONR 370   Fieldwork in Honors - Internship   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
The main goal of this course is to provide students with valuable work
experience in a professional ﬁeld connected with their academic program.
It allows students to apply and further develop their knowledge and
skills through an internship in a non-academic setting. The course
is also intended to serve as a "bridge" between college and career.
This internship presents an opportunity for students to gain valuable
professional experience as an intern in public or private institutions
engaged in public service projects. HONR 370 will satisfy the "service"
requirement for all Honors students.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   

--- Page 487 ---
518  Interreligious and Interfaith Interdisciplinary Program
Interreligious and Interfaith
Interdisciplinary Program
Undergraduate Programs
•Interreligious and Interfaith Studies Minor  (p. 518)
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Interreligious and Interfaith (IRIF) 
IRIF 300   Religious Diversity in Theory & Practice   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides an integrative overview of the ﬁeld of interreligious
and interfaith studies by way of its main components: Interreligious
literacy, religious pluralism, and interreligious conflict resolution. It is
intended to equip students to work in a multireligious setting.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Interreligious and Interfaith Studies   
Outcomes:
To be prepared to work in religiously diverse environments, understand
religious diversity in America and its practical implications, and
understand basic methodologies and concepts in the study of
interreligious relations
IRIF 380   Interreligious and Interfaith Internship   (3 Credit Hours)   
An internship in an interreligious or multireligious setting. Upon
completion students will write an analysis of the ways diverse religious
traditions interact in practical settings. Restricted to Interreligious and
Interfaith Minors.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Interreligious and Interfaith Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-IRIF 380/SOCL 380I   
Interreligious and Interfaith Studies
Minor
Curriculum
The program will consist of six courses:
Code Title Hours
Foundational CoursesTHEO 107Introduction to Religious Studies3
SOCL 145 Religion & Society 3ElectivesSelect two of the following: 6HIST 267AModern German Culture and Ideas IHIST 300 Topics in HistoryPAX 201Peace Studies OverviewSOCL 280 Topics in Contemporary Sociology (special
section)THEO 186Global Religious Ethics (special section)THEO 276 Black World ReligionTHEO 356Topics in JudaismTHEO 278 Religion & Gender (special section)THEO 280Religion & Interdisciplinary StudiesIntegrative CourseIRIF 300Religious Diversity in Theory & Practice (new and
speciﬁc to the program)3
Capstone InternshipIRIF 380Interreligious and Interfaith Internship3Total Hours18
Latin American and Latino Studies
Interdisciplinary Program
Our Minor Program offers an array of courses across disciplines
dedicated to the study of the region of Latin America, the Caribbean, and
the Latinx experience in the United States. With just six courses, students
can enhance and deepen their undergraduate education at Loyola with a
Hispanic / Latin@ American twist.
Undergraduate Programs
•Latin American and Latino Studies Minor  (p. 519)
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Latin American and Latino Studies
(LASP) 
LASP 196   Topics in Latin American Studies: Introductory   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This is the 100-level special topics course. It is interdisciplinary in nature,
and it may cover a wide variety of issues and topics related to Latin
America and to Latinos in the U.S.
Outcomes:
Students who successfully ﬁnish this class will be able to demonstrate
understanding of the topics covered in class, as shown in exams, papers,
and other assignments designed to evaluate students
LASP 297   Special Topics   (3 Credit Hours)   
This is the 200-level special topics course. It is interdisciplinary in nature,
and it may cover a wide variety of issues and topics related to Latin
America. Topics will vary from semester to semester.
LASP 395   Capstone in Latin American Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
Topics in Latin American Studies. Completes the minor in Latin American
studies. This tutorial course serves an integrative purpose, requiring the
student to focus on a speciﬁc issue or theme in Latin American studies
research. Each student completes a research project integrating Latin
American studies and his/her major ﬁeld.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Latin American Studies   
Course equivalencies:  LASP395/INTS395A   
LASP 396   Topics in Latin American Studies-Advanced   (3 Credit Hours)   
This is the advanced special topics course. It is interdisciplinary in nature,
and it may cover a wide variety of issues and topics related to Latin
America and to Latinos in the U.S.
Outcomes:
Students who successfully ﬁnish this class will be able to demonstrate
a more complex and nuanced understanding of the topics covered in
class, as shown in exams, papers, and other assignments designed to
test students at an advanced level

--- Page 488 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 519
Latin American and Latino Studies
Minor
Loyola University Chicago offers a minor in Latin American and Latino
Studies.
Related Programs
Minor
•Spanish Language Minor  (p. 584)
•Spanish Language and Literature Minor  (p. 583)
Combined
•Hispanic Studies (BA/MA)  (p. 1237 )
Curriculum
To complete a minor in Latin American and Latino Studies students
must complete 18 credit hours with an additional language competency
requirement and the completion of an eProtfolio their senior year.
Code Title Hours
Language Requirement  1Completion of SPAN 104 or PORT 102 with a C- or better -or- passing
a Language Competency Exam at or beyond the SPAN 104-level or
PORT 102-levelRequired Foundational Courses 6Select two of the following:HIST 210 Latin American History: Themes & IssuesANTH 211Peoples of Latin AmericaSPAN 352 Masterpieces of Latin American LiteraturePLSC 343Latin American Politics 2or PLSC 351Latin American International System
Electives  (p. 519) 312See elective list belowTotal Hours18
1Demonstration of language competency does not form part of the
required 18 credit hours for this minor.
2Either  PLSC 343 Latin American Politics  or PLSC 351 Latin American
International System , but not both, can count as a required
foundational course.
3No more than two elective courses can be taken from the same
department
LASP Minor Electives
Code Title Hours
ANTH 211 Peoples of Latin America 3ANTH 216Cultures of Migration3
ANTH 217 Mexican Culture & Heritage 3ANTH 242Mesoamerican Archaeology and Survivance3
ANTH 321 Human Rights in Latin America 3ANTH 332Language, Race, and Inequality3
COMM 272 Intercultural Communication 3FNAR 351Latin American Art I: Ancient to 19th Century3
HIST 210 Latin American History: Themes & Issues 3HIST 352Latin America in the 19th Century3
HIST 353 Latin America in Recent Times 3HIST 355The Caribbean & Central America in Colonial/
Modern Times3
HIST 356 Mexican History-Ancient to Modern Times 3HIST 357The Mexican Revolution in Popular Imagination3
HIST 358 Women in Latin American History 3HIST 359Teaching World History3
HIST 375 Digital History 3HIST 378Latina/o History3
HIST 382 Teaching Race, Class, and Gender 3HIST 389NAnti-Immigrant Politics in U.S. History3
LASP 395 Capstone in Latin American Studies 3PLSC 343Latin American Politics3
PLSC 344 Contemporary Issues in Latin America 3SPAN 352Masterpieces of Latin American Literature3
SPAN 365 Latin American Cinema 3SPAN 370Latin American Poetry3
SPAN 380 Latin American Prose Fiction 3SPAN 381Contemporary Spanish-American Novel3
SPAN 382 Latin American Theatre 3SPAN 385Caribbean Literature3
SPAN 389 Latin American Short Story 3SPAN 390Latin American Culture and Civilization3
SPAN 397 Topics in Hispanic Literature 3THEO 330Liberation Theology3
ePortfolio Requirement
ePortfolio to be completed by the 13th week of the student's ﬁnal
semester. Graduating LASP students will present their ePortfolio at the
LASP ePortfolio Tertulia . This reflective LASP ePortfolio will follow LUC
ePortfolio Program  (http://www.luc.edu/experiential/eportfolio/ ).
Transfer-Student Residency Requirement
At least 9 credit hours of LASP-MINR requirements (excluding language
course requirements) must be completed at Loyola.
Double-Dipping Policy
This department observes the  CAS Double-Dipping Policy  (https://
www.luc.edu/cas/double-dippingpolicy/ ) regarding unique credits
required for each declared major/minor. Not less than 9 credit hours in
the individual student’s transcript must be unique to each minor; that is,
the courses in question are considered as actually fulﬁlling requirements
of one minor, not of more than one minor or major.
Learning Outcomes
Upon graduating, students from our interdisciplinary undergraduate Latin
American and Latinx Studies Program will be able to:
•Gain an appreciation for the cultural, economic, and ethnic diversity
of Latin America and US Latinx communities by studying several
academic disciplines from all LUC campuses which include, but
are not limited to Anthropology, Communication, Sociology, History,
Modern Languages and Literatures, Philosophy, Political Science,
Women's Studies/Gender Studies, and Theology.

--- Page 489 ---
520  Mathematics and Statistics
•Engage with the integrative, multidisciplinary nature of Latin
American and US Latinx Studies and articulate how it is a connected
to other interdisciplinary ﬁelds of study.
•Recognize the value of studying from an intersectionality perspective
and intercultural framework while achieving a better understanding of
the Latin American region and the growing US Latinx communities.
•Develop knowledge and identify key Latin American/US Latinx
issues, including, but not limited to social (in)justice, mestizaje,
(im)migration, language and identity, neo/postcolonialism, gender
and sexuality studies, grassroots movements, popular culture, and
political resistance.
•Increase oral and written Spanish and/or Portuguese language
proﬁciency.
•Prepare for graduate study and for work in professional ﬁelds both in
the US and in Latin America.
Mathematics and Statistics
About Us
The Department of Mathematics and Statistics offers a wide variety of
undergraduate and graduate degree programs designed for students
with diverse career or higher educational goals. The faculty assists
students achieve these goals with up-to-date courses, seminars, and
research or internship projects. Our faculty members maintain highly
productive research programs which regularly result in publications in
leading journals and academic presses. Much of the faculty research is
supported by external agencies. The faculty is also actively engaged in
modernizing our elementary course offerings both in content and in the
use of technology.
Mission
The Department of Mathematics and Statistics at Loyola University
Chicago, in the College of Arts and Sciences, supports the Jesuit ideal
of knowledge in the service of humanity. The department endeavors
to advance knowledge in mathematics and statistics, engaged
with Chicago, the nation and the world. To achieve this mission, the
department participates in the discovery, development, demonstration
and dissemination of professional knowledge and practice within a
context of professional ethics and service to others.
Beyond honing students' analytical skills, the mathematics and statistics
curricula also foster critical thinking and the ability to articulate it... skills
that are in high demand in many diverse ﬁelds.
Commitment to Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
The Department of Mathematics and Statistics will work to ensure that
we invest in each student’s success, sense of belonging, and cultural
competency. We will strive to engage, empower, inform, and hold our
faculty and students accountable for fostering an environment where
every person shares in the responsibility for advancing diversity and
inclusive excellence. Likewise, the department decisions and policies
will be crafted with these goals in mind. We commit to this mission
recognizing a deﬁnition of diversity that includes, but is not limited to,
race, ethnicity, color, religion, national or ethnic origin, sex, age, military/
veteran status, disability, marital status, sexual orientation, gender
identity and expression, socio-economic background, and residency.Undergraduate Programs
•Actuarial Science Minor  (p. 530)
•Applied Mathematics (BS)  (p. 530)
•Biostatistics Minor  (p. 310)
•Data Science/Applied Statistics (BS/MS)  (p. 1083 )
•Data Science/Mathematics (BS/MS)  (p. 1086 )
•Mathematics (BS)  (p. 532)
•Mathematics (BS/MS)  (p. 1275 )
•Mathematics/Applied Statistics (BS/MS)  (p. 1279 )
•Mathematics - Education Track (BS)  (p. 533)
•Mathematics - Education Track/Applied Statistics (BS/MS)  (p. 1287 )
•Mathematics - Education Track/Mathematics (BS/MS)  (p. 1290 )
•Mathematics and Computer Science (BS)  (p. 534)
•Mathematics and Computer Science/Applied Statistics (BS/MS)
(p. 1282 )
•Mathematics and Computer Science/Mathematics (BS/MS)
(p. 1284 )
•Mathematics Minor  (p. 535)
•Statistics (BS)  (p. 535)
•Statistics/Applied Statistics (BS/MS)  (p. 1378 )
•Statistics/Mathematics (BS/MS)  (p. 1381 )
•Statistics Minor  (p. 537)
•Theoretical Physics and Applied Mathematics (BS)  (p. 537)
•Theoretical Physics and Applied Mathematics/Applied Statistics (BS/
MS) (p. 1393 )
•Theoretical Physics and Applied Mathematics/Mathematics (BS/MS)
(p. 1396 )
Mathematics and Statistics Department
Policies
Registration Restrictions
Students who have successfully completed (with a grade of C- or higher)
any 100-level course are not permitted to take or repeat a prerequisite
of such course without explicit permission from the Chair or Assistant
Chair of the Department of Mathematics and Statistics. For example, a
student who earned a grade of B in MATH 161 Calculus I  is not permitted
to register for MATH 100 Intermediate Algebra , MATH 117 Precalculus I
or MATH 118 Precalculus II .
Prerequisite Policy
A student’s lack of appropriate course prerequisites constitutes grounds
for withdrawal  from the class at any time.
AP Course Credit Policies
Students may receive credit for the following courses if they earn an
appropriate score on an Advanced Placement Test offered by the College
Board  (https://www.collegeboard.org/ ).
AP Calculus
Credit for the AP Calculus exams will be awarded as follows:
•4–5 on AB Calculus Exam 4 credits for MATH 161 Calculus I ;
•4–5 on BC Calculus Exam 8 credits for MATH 161 Calculus I  and
MATH 162A Calculus II, Alternate ;

--- Page 490 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 521
•4–5 on AB portion of BC Calculus Exam 4 credits for MATH 161
Calculus I .
AP Statistics
A score of 4 or 5 results in credit for STAT 103 Fundamentals of
Statistics .
Policy on Multiple Majors or Minors
The following modiﬁes and clariﬁes the "Double-Dipping" policy  (https://
www.luc.edu/cas/double-dippingpolicy/ ) of the College of Arts &
Sciences, as it pertains to the Department of Mathematics & Statistics.
Most combinations of majors or minors are allowed. In particular,
combinations of majors will be permitted as long as students respect
the College of Arts & Sciences policy that each major should include 21
credit hours not being counted for another major, along with the following
restrictions speciﬁc to the Department of Mathematics & Statistics:
1.MATH-BS may  be paired with TPAM-BS, but may not  be earned
together with a double-major  in TPAM-BS plus any Physics major ( e.g.,
BPHY-BS, PCSC-BS, PHYS-BS)
2.MATH-BS may  be paired with MSCS-BS, but may not  be earned
together with a double-major  in MCSC-BS plus any Computer Science
major.
3.DSCI-BS may  be paired with either STAS-BS or a computer science
major, but not with a double major in statistics and computer
science. 
All Minors offered by the department must contain at least 6 credit hours
at the 200 level or above not used to satisfy requirements of any other
major or minor, and at least three of these must be at the 300 level. This
condition may be met by taking additional electives, if necessary, from
the electives list for the minor. Furthermore, the following combinations
are not allowed. All other combinations are allowed provided they meet
the above criteria
•ACTU-MINR may not  be earned together with STAS-BS or DSCI-BS 
•BIOS-MINR may not  be earned along with STAS-BS or DSCI-BS  
•MATH-MINR may not  be earned together with AMTH-BS, MATH-BS,
MCSC-BS, MTED-BS, TPAM-BS  
•STAT -MINR may not  be earned together with STAS-BS. STAT -MINR
may  be earned with DSCI-BS but only  if STAT 304 Introduction to
Probability  and STAT 305 Introduction to Mathematical Statistics  are
taken as electives.   
•DSCI-MINR may not  be earned along with DSCI-BS or a double major
with STAS-BS and any computer science major.    
Policy on students who fail a class repeatedly
Any student wishing to enroll in a math or stats class who has failed
that class twice previously (with grades of D+ or lower) must obtain
permission from the department. For students who have failed exactly
twice permission can be obtained from the course coordinator or, for
un-coordinated classes, from the undergraduate program director.  For
students who have failed three or more times permission is needed from
the department chair. Permission will only be given if there is good reason
to believe you can be successful with an additional attempt at the class. 
Performance Withdrawal Policy
A student may be withdrawn from any of our majors  if:1.The student receives 2 grades less than C- in a two-year period in
courses required for the major, or
2.The student has a GPA in the major < 2.0 after completion of all 100-
level and 200-level requirements.
3.The chair has the right to reinstate students in the major for
exceptional cases.
Requirements for Departmental Honors
In order to receive departmental honors, students graduating with  any
major  (https://www.luc.edu/math/undergradprogs.shtml/ ) offered by the
Department of Mathematics and Statistics must satisfy the following two
criteria:
•Minimum 3.5 GPA for all program-required courses, at 200-level and
higher;
•Have taken an extra 3-credit course, beyond major requirements(*),
chosen from:
•A standard MATH/STAT offering at 300-level or above
•MATH/STAT 398
•EXPL 391 (supporting a joint project with a department faculty
member)
Interested students are encouraged to discuss this honor with their
departmental academic advisor or the department chair. However, no
application is required, as a full graduation audit will be conducted by the
Awards Committee each year.
(*) In most cases this extra course may also be used to count towards
another major or minor. So, for example, if you are pursuing a Math
major and a Stats minor your 300-level Stats elective could fulﬁll this
requirement. Please check with your department advisor if you are
unsure.
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Mathematical Sciences (MATH)
MATH 100   Intermediate Algebra   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Math Placement Test   
This course covers the fundamentals of algebra, ranging from linear
equations and their graphs through exponents and systems of equations.
Course equivalencies:  ACMAT100/MATH100   
Outcomes:
Students will receive the preparation needed to use algebra in other
courses or, if they plan to take calculus, to enroll in Precalculus I
MATH 108   Real World Modeling with Mathematics   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course investigates mathematical modeling applied to a variety of
topics such as linear programming, coding information, probability and
statistics, scheduling problems and social choice.
Knowledge Area:  Quantitative Knowledge   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the usefulness of mathematical modeling in
a variety of disciplines within the life sciences, the social sciences, and
business; This course satisﬁes the quantitative literacy requirement of
the core curriculum

--- Page 491 ---
522  Mathematics and Statistics
MATH 110   Business Precalculus   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (MATH100 or math placement of MATH117 or above)
AND (Declared major in the Quinlan School of Business OR the ECON-BA
Major)   
A one-semester course in precalculus designed for business students. It
includes the study of functions, their graphs, and their basic properties.
Techniques for solving equations involving linear, quadratic, polynomial,
exponential and logarithmic functions are explored, and ideas like
inverse functions are developed. An emphasis is placed on business
applications.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to work with and analyze polynomial, logarithmic
and exponential functions using a variety of techniques and apply those
skills in a variety of contexts, especially business applications
MATH 117   Precalculus I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Math Placement Test or MATH 100   
This course covers a variety of algebraic topics, including functions
and their applications, graph transformations, composition and inverse
functions, as well as polynomial and rational functions.
Course equivalencies:  ACMAT 117/MATH 117   
Outcomes:
Students who plan to study calculus will obtain the algebraic b ackground
needed to enroll in Precalculus II
MATH 118   Precalculus II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Math Placement Test or MATH 117   
This course covers topics ranging from exponential and logarithmic
functions to trigonometric functions. It also considers applications of
these topics in various settings.
Course equivalencies:  MATH 118/ ACMAT 118   
Outcomes:
Students will obtain the background needed to enroll in either of the
department's calculus sequences
MATH 123   Topics   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Freshman Mathematics/Statistics Seminar (1-3 Credit Hours): A
freshman seminar with no prerequisites on topics in the mathematical
sciences drawn from algebra, geometry, statistics, and their applications.
MATH 130   Business Calculus   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (MATH110 or MATH118 or math placement of MATH131
or 161) AND (Declared major in the Quinlan School of Business OR the
ECON-BA Major)   
An introduction to calculus focused on business applications. The
following topics are considered: modeling change using algebraic,
exponential and logarithmic functions, derivatives, optimization,
integration, functions of two variables, and partial derivatives.
Outcomes:
Students will understand and be able to use methods of calculus
(especially differential calculus) and be able to apply these in a variety of
contexts, especially business applicationsMATH 131   Applied Calculus I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Math Placement Test or MATH 118   
An introduction to differential and integral calculus, with an emphasis on
applications. This course is intended for students in the life and social
sciences, computer science, and business. Topics include: modeling
change using functions including exponential and trigonometric
functions, the concept of the derivative, computing the derivative,
applications of the derivative to business and life, social and computer
sciences, and an introduction to integration.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics, Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an understanding of calculus and methods
for applying calculus (especially differential calculus), including
modeling/analyzing processes (such as population growth and
cooling), interpreting the derivative (numerical, graphical, and algebraic),
and optimization (such as ﬁnding the time and level for a peak drug
concentration)
MATH 132   Applied Calculus II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 131   
This course is a continuation of MATH 131. Topics include: deﬁnition and
interpretations of the integral (numerically, graphically, and algebraically),
basic techniques for computing anti-derivatives, applications to
probability, an introduction to multi-variable calculus and optimization
for functions of several variables, and mathematical modeling using
differential equations. (This course is not a substitute for MATH 162.)
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics, Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an understanding of integral and multi-variable
calculus, including modeling/analyzing processes with the integral,
optimization of functions of several variables, and modeling with
differential equations
MATH 140L   Geometry for Middle Grade Teachers   (3 Credit Hours)   
The content covered in this course will include: Area, perimeter, volume,
surface area, Properties of two and three dimensional ﬁgures, points,
lines, planes, space, the Pythagorean theorem, transformations, fractals,
tessellations, perspective drawings and informal proofs. The material
covered will address Illinois Learning Standard Goal 7 and Goal 9 and
related content performance descriptors for educators. The course is
designed for Elementary education majors that wish to enhance, enrich
and deepen their knowledge of Geometry and apply for a 6th-8th grade
Mathematics endorsement from the State of Illinois. Mathematics
Content Area Standards 7 (Measurement) and 9 (Geometry) from the
Content-Area Standards for Educators document published by the Illinois
State Board of Education will be emphasized.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an understanding of the geometry topics taught in
the middle grade mathematics curriculum
MATH 141L   Number Theory for Middle Grade Teachers   (3 Credit Hours)   
Greatest common divisors, prime factorization, decimal fractions,
continued fractions, primes, composite numbers, tests for divis ibility,
perfect numbers, polygonal numbers, numbers bases, and patterns in
addition and multiplication tables are a sample of the topics covered.
(Illinois Learning Standard Goal 6 and related performance descriptors).
Appropriate use of technology (spread sheets, CAS, etc.) will also be
addressed.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an understanding of topics from Number Theory that
are addressed in the middle grade mathematics curriculum

--- Page 492 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 523
MATH 142L   History of Mathematics for Middle Grade Teachers   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course will provide a thematic approach to the history of
mathematics with emphasis on contributions by noted mathematicians,
mathematical societies and scientists highlighting women and under-
represented populations. The history of numbers and numerals,
computation, geometry, algebra, trigonometry, calculus, and science
patterns will be explored emphasizing the contributions of the
Babylonian, Egyptian, Chinese, and Roman civilizations as well as such
individuals as Euclid, Fermat, Archimedes, Kepler, Pythagoras, Euler,
Hypatia, Sonjs Kovalevsky, Emmy Noether and others as appropriate. The
influence of technology and its applications will also be presented as
appropriate.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain a unique historical perspective on the various
areas of mathematics that are studied in the middle grade mathematics
curriculum
MATH 143L   Probability and Statistics for Middle Grade Teachers   (3
Credit Hours)   
Data collection and display, simulations, surveys, probability and
elementary statistics such as mean, median, mode, standard deviation,
etc. will be the focus of this course (Illinois Learning Standa rd Goal
10) Appropriate techniques for graphing (scatter plots, histograms,
regression, correlation) with and without technology will be a focus of
this course.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain a background in the fundamentals of descriptive
and inferential statistics, along with an understanding of their uses and
misuses, as addressed in middle school mathematics curriculum
MATH 147   Mathematics For Teachers I   (3 Credit Hours)   
For course description, see CIEP 104.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  X-CIEP104/MATH147   
MATH 148   Mathematics For Teachers II   (3 Credit Hours)   
For course description, see CIEP 105.
Course equivalencies:  X-CIEP105/MATH148   
MATH 149   Intro to Computer Science For Teachers   (3 Credit Hours)   
For prerequisite and description, see COMP 120.
Course equivalencies:  X-COMP120/MATH149   
MATH 161   Calculus I   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Math Placement Test or MATH 118   
This course provides a standard introduction to differential and integral
calculus and covers topics ranging from functions and limits to
derivatives and their applications to deﬁnite and indeﬁnite integrals and
the fundamental theorem of calculus and their applications.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics, Forensic Science   
Course equivalencies:  ACMAT 161/MATH 161   
Outcomes:
Students will obtain a theoretical understanding of principles of
differential and integral calculus, will demonstrate computational skills
in support of reasoning and interpretation, and will apply concepts such
as the derivative and the integral to modeling processes; Students will be
able to make use of a wide variety of techniques of differentiationMATH 162   Calculus II   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 161   
This course is a continuation of Calculus I and includes the calculus of
various classes of functions, techniques of integration, applications of
integral calculus, three-dimensional geometry, and differentiation and
integration in two variables.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics   
Course equivalencies:  ACMAT 162/MATH 162   
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an understanding of techniques for ﬁnding anti-
derivatives, and applications of the integral to questions in three-
dimensional geometry and physics; Students will obtain conceptual
understanding about functions of several variables and apply these
concepts to optimization and integration questions for functions of
two variables; Students will employ techniques for solving differential
equations and their applications
MATH 162A   Calculus II, Alternate   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 161   
This course is a continuation of Calculus I and includes the calculus
of various classes of functions, techniques of integration, applications
of integral calculus, sequences and inﬁnite series, and an introduction
to differential equations. This course follows a traditional approach to
calculus sequencing.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics   
Outcomes:
Students will obtain the background needed for further study in
mathematics and to apply mathematics in the physical sciences
MATH 170   Service Learning in Mathematics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  B+ or higher in any of the following (MATH 118 or
MATH 131 or MATH 132 or MATH 161 or MATH 162 or MATH 263 or
MATH 263A)   
Students will learn best practices to communicate mathematical
concepts and skills to diverse populations by engaging in tutoring
mathematics to the undergraduate population at Loyola. This course
is designed to promote and encourage engagement and rigor in
mathematical concepts and skills among the diverse communities of
learners at Loyola.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students in this course will deepen their understanding of mathematical
concepts and skills and be able to communicate this effectively to
diverse communities of learners
MATH 201   Introduction to Discrete Mathematics & Number Theory   (3
Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 161   
This course covers topics from discrete mathematics and number theory,
areas of mathematics not seen in calculus courses and abundant in
applications, that provide students with the concepts and techniques of
mathematical proof needed in 300 level courses in mathematics.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an understanding of the basic concepts and
techniques involved in constructing rigorous proofs of mathematical
statements

--- Page 493 ---
524  Mathematics and Statistics
MATH 212   Linear Algebra   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 132 or MATH 162 or MATH 162A   
This course provides an introduction to linear algebra in abstract vector
spaces with an emphasis on Rn, covering topics such as Gaussian
elimination, matrix algebra, linear independence and spanning, linear
transformations and eigenvalues; software packages such as MAPLE
may be used.
Outcomes:
Students will receive an introduction to abstract mathematics in a setting
that encourages the thinking needed in more advanced mathematics
courses
MATH 215   Object-Oriented Programming with Mathematics   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 132 or MATH 162 or MATH 162A   
This is an introductory programming course for students interested in
mathematics and scientiﬁc computing. Students will program primarily in
a general object-oriented language such as Python, with supplementary
exercises in a computer algebra system. Examples will be drawn
primarily from applications of calculus, elementary number theory, and
cryptography.
Course equivalencies:  X-COMP215/MATH215   
Outcomes:
Students will learn basic scripting and object-oriented programming, with
the goal of being able to solve mathematical and scientiﬁc problems
MATH 263   Multivariable Calculus   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 162   
This course covers the differential and integral calculus of multivariable
and vector valued functions, and sequences and inﬁnite series,
culminating with Green's Theorem, the Divergence Theorem, and Stokes'
Theorem.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an understanding of multivariable calculus and
its applications, as well as background needed for the study of more
advanced mathematics
MATH 263A   Multivariable Calculus, Alternate   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 162A   
This course covers the differential and integral calculus of multivariable
and vector valued functions, culminating with Green's Theorem, the
Divergence Theorem, and Stokes' Theorem. This course follows a
traditional approach to calculus sequencing.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an understanding of multivariable calculus and
its applications, as well as background needed for the study of more
advanced mathematics
MATH 264   Ordinary Differential Equations   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 263 or MATH 263A (Can also be a corequisite)   
This course covers the theory, solution techniques, and applications
surrounding linear and non-linear ﬁrst- and second-order differential
equations, including systems of equations.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an understanding of elementary differential
equations and their applicationsMATH 266   Differential Equations and Linear Algebra   (3 Credit Hours)   
Co-requisites:  MATH 263 or MATH 263A   
This course provides an introduction to basic topics in ordinary
differential equations and linear algebra. Topics include ﬁrst and second-
order differential equations, Laplace transform, systems of ﬁrst-order
differential equations, systems of linear algebraic equations, matrix
algebra, bases and dimension for vector spaces, linear independence,
linear transformations, determinants, eigenvalues, and eigenvectors.
Prerequisites or
Outcomes:
Students will learn fundamental results and methods in ordinary
differential equations and linear algebra, with a strong emphasis on
topics that are particularly relevant for Engineering Science
MATH 277   Problem-Solving Seminar   (1 Credit Hour)   
In a seminar setting, students discuss and present proofs (or computer
examples) as solutions to regional and national mathematics contest
problems usually involving techniques drawn from elementary logic,
calculus of one and several variables, combinatorics, number theory,
geometry, basic algebra, and abstract algebra. Learning Outcome: To
improve a student's ability to communicate mathematically and to
strengthen the student's problem-solving skills.
MATH 298   Research Seminar in Mathematics   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 162 or MATH 162A   
A seminar-style course that covers various topics about how to conduct
research in mathematical sciences while engaging students in active
research projects with faculty mentors.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an initial insight into a number of areas of advanced
study in mathematics
MATH 301   History of Mathematics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 132 or MATH 162 or MATH 162A   
This course explores selected topics in the history of mathematics
ranging from Babylonian and Egyptian mathematics to Pythagoras and
Euclid to the Hindu-Arabic numeration system to Newton and Leibniz to
geometries other that Euclid's to the mathematical art of Escher.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain a unique historical perspective on the various areas
of mathematics that they are studying in their other courses
MATH 304   Introduction to Probability   (3 Credit Hours)   
For prerequisites and description, see STAT 304.
Course equivalencies:  X-MATH304/STAT304   
MATH 305   Introduction to Mathematical Statistics   (3 Credit Hours)   
For prerequisites and description, see STAT 305.
Course equivalencies:  X-MATH305/STAT305   
MATH 306   Intro to Stochastic Processes   (3 Credit Hours)   
For prerequisites and description, see STAT 306.
Course equivalencies:  X-MATH306/STAT306   

--- Page 494 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 525
MATH 309   Numerical Methods   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (COMP 170 or COMP 215) and [(MATH 212 and MATH 264)
or MATH 266]   
An introduction to numerical techniques for solving mathematical
problems where exact solutions are impractical or computationally
intensive. Topics include numerical errors, root ﬁnding, interpolation
and approximation, solutions to systems of linear equations, numerical
differentiation and integration, numerical solutions to ordinary and partial
differential equations equations, and other selected topics.
Course equivalencies:  X-COMP309/MATH309   
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an understanding of how numerical methods can be
used in a variety of areas of mathematics
MATH 313   Abstract Algebra   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 201 and 212   
This course provides a rigorous introduction to the study of structures
such as groups, rings, and ﬁelds; emphasis is on the theory of
groups with topics such as subgroups, cyclic groups, Abelian groups,
permutation groups, homomorphisms, cosets, and factor groups.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to read, understand, and communicate arguments
about group theory and abstract algebraic structures, preparing them for
further advanced work in mathematics
MATH 314   Advanced Topics Abstract Algebra   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 313   
This course studies advanced algebraic systems with an emphasis on
rings and ﬁelds, culminating with the Galois theory of equations.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to read, understand, and communicate arguments
about rings, ﬁelds and abstract algebraic structures, preparing them for
further advanced work in mathematics
MATH 315   Advanced Topics in Linear Algebra   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 313   
This course offers a rigorous abstract approach to vector spaces and
transformations, including similarity, duality, canonical forms, inner
products, bilinear forms, Hermitian and unitary spaces, and other
selected topics.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an understanding of advanced linear algebra
structures that will prepare them for graduate level work in mathematics
and industry work involving mathematics
MATH 318   Combinatorics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 162 or MATH 162A   
This course offers a rigorous introduction to combinatorics, including
topics such as induction, the pigeon-hole principle, permutations,
combinations, recurrence relations, generating functions, the inclusion-
exclusion principle, and other selected topics.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an understanding of the basic topics in
combinatorics that will prepare them for advanced study of related topics
in mathematics and computer scienceMATH 320   Mathematical Logic   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 201   
This course in modern mathematical logic begins with a study of
propositional logic and leads to the study of ﬁrst-order predicate logic,
including quantiﬁers, models, syntax, semantics, the completeness and
compactness theorems, and other selected topics.
Outcomes:
Students will develop a fuller understanding of mathematical logic
and therefore of the underlying theory behind proofs of mathematical
assertions
MATH 322   Advanced Number Theory   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 201   
This course will cover Pythagorean triples, problems related to Fermat's
Last Theorem, Pell's equation, Fermat's method of descent, primes in
arithmetic progressions, Mersenne primes, perfect numbers, primitive
roots, primality testing, Carmichael numbers, RSA public key encryption,
quadratic residues, and quadratic reciprocity. Additional topics will be
covered as time permits.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to solve important practical and theoretical number
theory problems; Students will be exposed to both signiﬁcant recently
solved number theory problems and currently unsolved conjectures
MATH 328   Algebraic Coding Theory   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 212 or MATH 266   
Codes with algebraic structure for error control are examined. Block
codes including Hamming codes and Reed-Muller codes, BCH codes, and
other cyclic codes and their implementation are treated. Other topics may
include: convolutional codes, efﬁciency considerations, and Shannon's
fundamental theorem of information theory.
Course equivalencies:  X-MATH328/COMP328   
MATH 331   Cryptography   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Theoretical Foundations: MATH201 or COMP363;
Programming Foundations: COMP125 or COMP150 or COMP170 or
COMP/MATH 215   
This course introduces the formal foundations of cryptography and also
investigates some well-known standards and protocols, including private
and public key cryptosystems, hashing, digital signatures, RSA, DSS, PGP ,
and related topics.
Course equivalencies:  X-COMP331/MATH331   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of cryptosystems widely used to
protect data security on the internet, and be able to apply the ideas in
new situations as needed
MATH 344   Geometry   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 212   
This course discusses axiomatic systems which deﬁne geometries and
includes topics from synthetic and analytic projective geometry.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an understanding of the many different geometries
that are studied by teachers and researchers

--- Page 495 ---
526  Mathematics and Statistics
MATH 345   Introduction to Financial Mathematics Derivatives   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (MATH 264 or MATH 266) and MATH 304   
The course provides an introduction to the mathematical theory of option
pricing. We will rigorously derive option relationships using no arbitrage
conditions, introduce rudimentary stochastic calculus and Brownian
motion as models for stock prices, and give an introduction to methods
for solving partial differential equations to give explicit Black-Scholes
formulas.
Outcomes:
The students will gain knowledge of the theory of options, bond and
stock pricing, portfolio optimization, and will be exposed to other relevant
applications of Mathematics to Finance
MATH 351   Introduction to Real Analysis I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 201 and (MATH 263 or MATH 263A) and (MATH 212
or MATH 266)   
An introduction to the topology of, and to the functions on the real line
or more general metric spaces. Topics include sequences, including
sequences of functions, completeness, compactness, continuity, uniform
continuity, and differentiation.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an understanding of the fundamentals of real
analysis that will prepare them for advanced work in mathematics
MATH 352   Introduction to Real Analysis II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 351   
A continuation of MATH 351. Topics include Riemann integration,
series, including series of functions, and select topics in continuity and
differentiation of multivariable functions, ﬁxed point, implicit and inverse
function theorems.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an understanding of topics in advanced analysis that
will prepare them for graduate level work in mathematics
MATH 353   Introduction to Complex Analysis   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (MATH 264 and MATH 266) and MATH 351   
An introduction to the algebra and geometry of complex numbers,
topology of the complex plane, and the theory of functions of a complex
variable, including: analytic functions, contour integrals, the Cauchy
integral formula, harmonic functions, Laurent series, residues and poles,
the Fundamental Theorem of Algebra, and other selected topics.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an understanding of the fundamentals of complex
analysis that will prepare them for advanced work in mathematics
MATH 355   Methods of Applied Mathematics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 264   
Vector calculus, linear transformations, matrices, series solutions of
differential equations, special functions; Fourier series, Fourier and
Laplace transforms; Partial differential equations and topics from
complex analysis, Green's functions, integral equations, the calculus of
variations.
Course equivalencies:  X-PHYS301/PHYS271/MATH355   
Outcomes:
Facility with mathematical methods used in sciences and engineeringMATH 356   Introduction to Mathematical Modeling   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 266 or (MATH 264 and MATH 212)   
This course will teach students how to use various areas of mathematics,
such as vector calculus, linear algebra, and/or differential equations, to
formulate and analyze mathematical models in, for example, mechanics,
physics, biology, economics, etc.
Outcomes:
Students will learn how to use the tools from previous mathematics
classes to formulate models of real world phenomena
MATH 358   Introduction to Optimization   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (MATH 162 or MATH 263A) and (MATH 212 or MATH 266)   
The course is an introduction to linear, nonlinear, and integer optimization,
and may include optimization on graphs, stochastic optimization, etc.
Modeling of real-life problems as optimization problems, mathematical
analysis of resulting optimization problems, and computational
approaches to solving the problems will be covered.
Course equivalencies:  X-MATH358/STAT358   
Outcomes:
Students will learn how to recognize optimization problems, model real-
life challenges as optimization problems, perform mathematical analysis
of the problems, and solve the problems using computational tools
MATH 360   Introduction to Game Theory   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 162 or MATH 162A   
The noncooperative and cooperative theories of games. Two person zero
sum matrix games, nonzero sum N-person games, Nash equilibria of
games with a continuum of strategies, auctions, duels. Cooperat ive game
theory, including the theory of bargaining, the theory of fair allocation of
rewards using the nucleolus and using the Shapley value.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an understanding of the fundamentals of
mathematical game theory and will be able to apply this knowledge in a
variety of settings
MATH 365   Introduction to Partial Differential Equations   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 264 or MATH 266   
This course provides an introduction to basic topics in partial differential
equations (PDE). In addition to ﬁrst order PDE, such as the transport
equation, the main types of second order PDE, including the Laplace
equation, the heat equation, and the wave equation, will be studied in
detail.
Outcomes:
Students will learn fundamental results and methods in partial differential
equations and their applications
MATH 366   Applied Dynamical Systems   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 266 Linear Algebra and Differential Equations
or (MATH 264 Ordinary Differential Equations and MATH 212 Linear
Algebra)   
Modeling, analysis, and prediction of short-term and asymptotic behavior
of dynamical systems is studied. Continuous-time and discrete-time
dynamical systems are considered, and modeled by differential and
difference equations, respectively. Motivation comes from biological,
chemical, mechanical, and engineering systems. Students will learn how
to model dynamical systems and predict their behavior.

--- Page 496 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 527
MATH 376   Formal Language & Automata   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 163 or MATH 201 or MATH 212 or MATH 266   
This course introduces formal language theory, including such topics
as ﬁnite automata and regular expressions, pushdown automata and
context-free grammars, Turing machines, undecidability, and the halting
problem.
Course equivalencies:  X-COMP376/MATH376   
Outcomes:
An understanding of the theoretical underpinnings of computability and
complexity in computer science
MATH 386   Introduction to Topology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 201 and 212 This ﬁrst course in topology discusses
topological spaces, continuity, connectedness and path-connectedness,
compactness, product spaces, quotient spaces, metric spaces,
countability and separation axioms, and other selected topics   
No course description is available
Outcomes:
Students will obtain a background in topology that will allow them to
apply this topic to other areas of mathematics or to pursue graduate
studies
MATH 388   Special Topics in Mathematics   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
This course covers advanced topics in mathematics, including analysis,
topology, algebra, applied mathematics, and logic.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an understanding of an advanced topic in their major
MATH 390   Advanced Research Seminar in Mathematics   (2 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 304/STAT 304 or MATH 313 or MATH 351   
The seminar will cultivate students' presentation skills through
participation in and critical discussion of brief lectures on familiar and
unfamiliar topics; preparation and presentation of two brief lectures by
the student (one on a familiar topic from the curriculum, one on a higher
level material not customarily from the curriculum); and preparation of an
extended abstract summarizing the advanced material presented.
Outcomes:
Students will gain the ability to present material in Mathematics and
applications to a general audience
MATH 395   Capstone Seminar   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 313 Abstract Algebra, MATH 351 Introduction to
Real Analysis I, and MATH 390 Undergraduate Seminar   
The course uniﬁes the knowledge gained in previous Mathematics
courses and provides an opportunity for in-depth study and presentation
of advanced material not usually covered in the standard Mathematics
curriculum.
Outcomes:
Students will learn how to integrate previous knowledge in exploring new
topics in Mathematics, discover applications to other disciplines, and
reﬁne their mathematical writing and presentation skills
MATH 398   Independent Study   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
This course allows students to engage in independent study on selected
topics in mathematics under the supervision of a faculty member.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an understanding of an advanced topic in their majorStatistics (STAT)
STAT 103   Fundamentals of Statistics   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides an introduction to statistical reasoning and
techniques in descriptive and inferential statistics and their applications
in economics, education, genetics, medicine, physics, political science,
and psychology. Not open to students who have completed ISOM 241.
Knowledge Area:  Quantitative Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  ISSCM/H/241/STAT103/ACST101/03   
Outcomes:
Students will obtain a background in the fundamentals of descriptive
and inferential statistics along with an understanding of their uses and
misuses; This course satisﬁes the quantitative literacy requirement of the
core curriculum
STAT 203   Introduction to Probability & Statistics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 132 or MATH 162 or MATH 162A; MATH 162 may
also be taken concurrently as a co-requisite   
This course is a Calculus-based rigorous introduction to basic topics in
probability (distributions, expectations, variance, central limit theorem
and the law of large numbers) and statistics (estimation, hypothesis
testing, regression, design of experiments) needed in engineering and
science applications.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain required knowledge in probability and statistics
useful in every area of engineering and science; They will learn how to
assess data and outcomes of experiments
STAT 303   SAS Programming & Applied Statistics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  STAT 103 or 203 or 335   
This course provides an introduction to SAS programming in the context
of practical problems taken from applied statistics.
Outcomes:
Students obtain extensive experience with data-set manipulations, SAS
procedures, and their application in contexts such as t-tests, simple and
multiple regression, ANOVA, and regression
STAT 304   Introduction to Probability   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 263 or MATH 263A   
This course provides a calculus based introduction to probability theory,
including topics such as combinatorial analysis, conditional probability,
and a variety of statistical distributions.
Course equivalencies:  X-MATH304/STAT304   
Outcomes:
Students obtain the theoretical background in probability needed for
further study in probability and statistics
STAT 305   Introduction to Mathematical Statistics   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a continuation of STAT 304 and applies the techniques of
calculus and probability to the study of advanced topics in statistics.
Course equivalencies:  X-MATH305/STAT305   
Outcomes:
Students obtain the theoretical background in statistics needed for
graduate level work in probability and statistics

--- Page 497 ---
528  Mathematics and Statistics
STAT 306   Intro to Stochastic Processes   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (STAT 203 or STAT 335) and (MATH 212 or MATH 266)   
This course discusses topics such as ﬁnite-state Markov processes and
Markov chains, classiﬁcation of states, long-run behavior, continuous
time processes, birth and death processes, random walks, and Brownian
motion.
Course equivalencies:  X-MATH306/STAT306   
Outcomes:
Students will obtain a background in stochastic processes that will allow
them to apply them in areas like genetics, population growth, inventory,
cash management, and gambling theory
STAT 307   Statistical Design & Analysis of Experiments   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (STAT 203 or STAT 335 with a C- or better) and STAT 308
with a C- or better   
This course discusses comparative experiments, analysis of variance
and covariance, ﬁxed and random effects models, and a variety of
experimental design models including cross-over and split plot designs;
contemporary statistical software will be used extensively.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain the background in statistical design and analysis of
experiments needed to apply them in their own areas of interest
STAT 308   Applied Regression Analysis   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  STAT 203 or 335   
This course discusses simple and multiple linear regression methods,
multiple comparison estimation procedures, residual analysis, and other
methods for studying the aptness of a proposed regression model;
contemporary statistical software will be used extensively.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an extensive background in the applications of
regression analysis and computer coding of regression models
STAT 310   Categorical Data Analysis   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (STAT 203 or STAT 335) and (STAT 303 or STAT 308)   
An introduction to modern-day extensions of simple linear regression
and ANOVA to the chi-square test including logistic regression and log-
linear modelling techniques based on generalized linear models. Methods
for matched-pair, small datasets, ordinal and multi-category data also
discussed. This course focuses on applications using real-life data sets,
and uses popular software packages.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an extensive background in the applications of
categorical data analysis methods
STAT 311   Applied Survival Analysis   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  STAT 308 (Applied Regression Analysis)   
This course focuses on methods for analyzing time-to-event data.
The course will explore non-parametric methods for analyzing time-
to-event data like Life tables, the Kaplan-Meier method, the Nelson-
Aalen method and the log-rank test. This course will also explo re semi-
parametric models such as the Cox proportional hazards regression
models and parametric models including exponential, Weibull and log-
logistic regression model.
Outcomes:
Derive survival and hazard functions from an underlying distribution,
calculate survival probabilities and hazard rates, compare survival
probabilities and hazard ratios between two or more cohortsSTAT 321   Computational Aspects of Modeling and Simulation   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  STAT 308   
This course uses SAS and R languages to address statistical modelling
and to conduct statistical simulations to assess linear, generalized linear,
nonlinear and complex models and experimental designs.
Course equivalencies:  X-STAT356/COMP321/STAT321   
Outcomes:
Students will gain practical experience and knowledge in real-world
statistical situations for which underlying theory is cumbersome or
intractable
STAT 335   Introduction to Biostatistics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 102 and (MATH 132 or MATH 162 or MATH 162A
(MATH 162 may be taken as a pre- or co-requisite))   
For Bioinformatics Majors only: BIOL 101 and (MATH 132 or MATH 162
or MATH 162A (MATH 162 may be taken as a pre- or co-requisite)). This
course provides an introduction to descriptive and inferential statistics
in the biological sciences. Topics include data visualization, probability,
discrete and continuous probability distributions, conﬁdence intervals, t-
tests, tests of proportions, chi-square tests, correlation, linear regression
and ANOVA. Contemporary computer software will be used to apply the
methods.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics, Forensic Science   
Course equivalencies:  X-BIOL335/STAT335   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to visualize data appropriately, to properly design
a statistical experiment, to apply the correct statistical methods and
properly analyze the results
STAT 336   Advanced Biostatistics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  STAT 203 or STAT 335   
This course overviews applied statistical methods useful in biomedical
modelling chosen from: experimental design, categorical data analysis
including logistic regression, nonlinear regression, bioassay and synergy
modelling, multivariate methods, survival statistics, and longitudinal
data analysis techniques. Modern statistical software methods will be
extensively used and illustrated.
Course equivalencies:  X-STAT336/BIOL336   
Outcomes:
Students are expected to obtain expertise in applying this course's
advanced biostatistical methods application areas including knowing
how best to implement these methods, interpret results, and use
statistical software output
STAT 337   Quantitative Methods in Bioinformatics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  STAT 203 or 335   
This course develops the mathematical and statistical methods
necessary to analyze and interpret genomic and proteomic data,
including signal analysis, sequence alignment methods, data-bas e search
methods useful in bioinformatics and data mining.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics   
Course equivalencies:  XSTAT337/BIOL337/BIOI337   
Outcomes:
Students will obtain the quantitative skills used in BLAST , including
inference, stochastic processes and hidden Markov models, random
walks, microarray analysis and biological sequence analysis

--- Page 498 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 529
STAT 338   Predictive Analytics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  STAT 308   
Students will study methods for predicting future events and properly
classifying data using both supervised and unsupervised statistical
learning techniques.
Outcomes:
Learn methods for predicting and classifying; Model Selection; Evaluate
the effectiveness and accuracy of a model/prediction
STAT 344   Longitudinal Data Analysis and Mixed Modelling   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (STAT 203 or STAT 335 with a C- or better) and STAT 308
with a C- or better or permission of the instructor   
Repeated measures and longitudinal data are ubiquitous in studies,
research and applications. This course explores methods for repeated
measures, longitudinal (time-series), and nested/hierarchical data in a
detailed manner. These methods take account of correlations between
measurements by allowing each individual in a study to serve as their
own control.
Outcomes:
Students are expected to master the analysis and interpretation of
repeated measures, longitudinal, mixed, and nested/hierarchical data;
This includes effectively using R, SAS or other software for these data
analyses
STAT 351   Nonparametric Statistical Methods   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  STAT 203 or STAT 335 with C- or better   
This course will cover the basic principles of nonparametric methods in
statistics including: one, two and K sample location methods; tests of
randomness; tests of goodness of ﬁt; nonlinear correlation; histogram;
density estimation; nonparametric regression. Students should learn
how to apply the nonparametric techniques in real datasets, interpret the
results and draw conclusions.
STAT 370   Data Science Consulting   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  STAT 308   
Students will work on a research project with a client acting as a
consultant on the statistical and computational aspects of the project.
Students are required to meet with a client, develop a strategy for
addressing their problem, and present their results to the client (and their
classmates).
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
1) Apply methods learned in classes to a address a real world problem; 2)
Oral and Written presentation skills; 3) Collaboration skills
STAT 388   Topics   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  STAT 203 or STAT 335   
This course covers advanced topics in statistics, such as multivariate
analysis, sampling theory, non-parametric methods, decision theory, and
Bayesian analysis.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an understanding of an advanced topic in their majorSTAT 390   Undergraduate Seminar   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  Senior Standing, including completion of MATH 304/
STAT 304   
The seminar will cultivate students' presentation skills through
participation in and critical discussion of brief lectures on familiar and
unfamiliar topics; preparation and presentation of two brief lectures by
the student (one on a familiar topic from the curriculum, one on a higher
level material not customarily from the curriculum); and preparation of an
extended abstract summarizing the advanced material presented.
Outcomes:
Students will gain the ability to present material in Statistics, and their
applications to a general audience
STAT 391   Internship in Actuarial Science   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  STAT 304 and 396; approval of the internship director   
This course offers an opportunity to obtain experience in actuarial
science in a professional environment; placement requires approval of
the internship coordinator and acceptance by an employer.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will obtain ﬁrst hand experience doing actuarial work in a real
world environment
STAT 396   Actuarial Seminar I   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 263   
The seminar provides a comprehensive review of the probability topics
that most commonly appear on the Actuarial Exam P . Topics covered
include: axiomatic probability, combinatorial probability, conditional
probability and Bayes' Theorem, independence, random variables and
their various distributions, joint distributions, marginal distributions,
conditional distributions of tow of more random variables.
Outcomes:
The purpose of the seminar is to prepare students for the Actuarial Exam
P; The students will also learn test-taking strategies and will  have the
opportunity to take practice tests
STAT 397   Actuarial Seminar II   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  MATH 263   
The seminar is a continuation of STAT 396. It provides a comprehensive
review of topics in probability and risk management directed toward
students preparing for the Actuarial Exam P . Additional topics may
include order statistics, moment-generating functions, the Central Limit
Theorem and risk analysis.
Outcomes:
The purpose of the seminar is to prepare students for the Actuarial Exam
P; The students will also learn test-taking strategies and will  have the
opportunity to take practice tests
STAT 398   Independent Study   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
This course allows students to engage in independent study on selected
topics in statistics under the supervision of a faculty member.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an understanding of an advanced topic in their major
STAT 399H   Honors Tutorial   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
This course allows students in the honors program to engage in
independent study of selected topics in statistics for honors c redit under
the supervision of a faculty member.
Course equivalencies:  STAT399H / STAT399   
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an understanding of an advanced topic in their major

--- Page 499 ---
530  Actuarial Science Minor
Actuarial Science Minor
The discipline of actuarial science deals with the mathematical and
statistical analysis of risk, especially as it pertains to the insurance and
ﬁnance industries. Students pursuing a Minor in Actuarial Science  will
gain the foundation necessary to prepare for the ﬁrst two Society of
Actuaries exams.
Related Programs
Minor
•Data Science Minor  (p. 379)
•Mathematics Minor  (p. 535)
•Statistics Minor  (p. 537)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesMATH 161Calculus I4
MATH 162 Calculus II 4MATH 263Multivariable Calculus4
MATH 212 Linear Algebra 3STAT 203Introduction to Probability & Statistics3or STAT 335Introduction to Biostatistics
STAT 304 Introduction to Probability 3STAT 305Introduction to Mathematical Statistics3STAT 396Actuarial Seminar I1Total Hours25
Double-Dipping Policy
Per our double dipping policy, at least 6 credit hours must be unique to
this minor.
Transfer-Student Residency Requirement
At least 13 credit hours of Actuarial Science Minor must be completed at
Loyola
Learning Outcomes
•Students will understand the foundational mathematics used in the
actuarial ﬁeld including single and multivariable calculus as well as
linear algebra.
•Students will learn foundational probability and statistics, enabling a
solid understanding of actuarial principles and techniques.
•Students will be prepared for the ﬁrst actuarial exam.
Applied Mathematics (BS)
Students earning a B.S. in Applied Mathematics will acquire foundational
knowledge in the ﬁeld, as well as competency in the critical thinking,
technological, and communication skills necessary for its application.
Applied math is a dynamic discipline with applications to many ﬁelds,
including Systems Biology, Data Mining and Data Privacy, Materials
Science, Computer Animation and Digital Imaging, Finance and
Economics, Ecology, Epidemiology, and Climatology, among others.Related Programs
Major
•Mathematics (BS)  (p. 532)
•Mathematics - Education Track (BS)  (p. 533)
Combined
•Mathematics (BS/MS)  (p. 1275 )
Curriculum
AP Credit Policies  (p. 520)
Code Title Hours
Lower Level Course RequirementsMATH 161Calculus I4
MATH 162 Calculus II 4
or MATH 162A Calculus II, AlternateMATH 201Introduction to Discrete Mathematics & Number
Theory3
MATH 212 Linear Algebra 3MATH 263Multivariable Calculus4or MATH 263AMultivariable Calculus, Alternate
MATH 264 Ordinary Differential Equations 3PHYS 121 
& PHYS 111LCollege Physics I with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion 
and College Physics Laboratory I4
Choose one of the following course sequences: 6-9COMP 170 
& COMP 271  
& COMP 272Introduction to Object-Oriented Programming 
and Data Structures I  
and Data Structures IIMATH 215 
& COMP 231Object-Oriented Programming with Mathematics 
and Data Structures & Algorithms for InformaticsAdditional Science RequirementsSelect one of the following: 3ANTH 101Human OriginsBIOL 101 General Biology IBIOL 102General Biology IICHEM 160 Chemical Structure and PropertiesENVS 101The Scientiﬁc Basis of Environmental IssuesPHYS 122 College Physics II with Calculus Lecture/
DiscussionProbability and Statistics RequirementsSelect one of the following: 6MATH 304 
& MATH 305Introduction to Probability 
and Introduction to Mathematical StatisticsSTAT 203 
& STAT 308Introduction to Probability & Statistics 
and Applied Regression AnalysisUpper Level Course RequirementsMATH 309 Numerical Methods 3MATH 356Introduction to Mathematical Modeling3
Electives ASelect two of the following:6
MATH 318 CombinatoricsMATH 331Cryptography

--- Page 500 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 531
MATH 345 /
STAT 388Introduction to Financial Mathematics DerivativesMATH 358Introduction to OptimizationMATH 360 Introduction to Game TheoryMATH 365Introduction to Partial Differential EquationsMATH 366 Applied Dynamical SystemsMATH 388Special Topics in Mathematics (Must be approved
beforehand)STAT 321 Computational Aspects of Modeling and
SimulationElective BOne elective chosen from any 300-level MATH or an approved 300-
level STAT course3Total Hours55-58
Suggested Sequence of Courses
Note:  This is only one possibility. Among other things, depending on
initial math placement, which can range from MATH 100 to MATH 263,
the schedule will look very different. Especially for students starting at
MATH 161 or above, there is a lot of space to pursue a minor or even a
second major.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
MATH 161 Calculus I 4Additional Science Requirement3 Hours7
SpringMATH 162Calculus II4MATH 201Introduction to Discrete Mathematics &
Number Theory3 Hours7
Year 2
Fall
MATH 263 Multivariable Calculus 4MATH 215Object-Oriented Programming with
Mathematics3
PHYS 121 College Physics I with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3PHYS 111LCollege Physics Laboratory I1 Hours11
SpringMATH 212Linear Algebra3
MATH 264 Ordinary Differential Equations 3COMP 231Data Structures & Algorithms for
Informatics3 Hours9
Year 3
FallSTAT 203 
or MATH 304Introduction to Probability & Statistics 
or Introduction to Probability3300-level Applied Math Elective3 Hours6Spring
STAT 308 
or MATH 305Applied Regression Analysis 
or Introduction to Mathematical
Statistics3MATH 309 
or MATH 356Numerical Methods 
or Introduction to Mathematical
Modeling3 Hours6
Year 4
Fall300-level Applied Math Elective3300-level Math/Stat Elective3 Hours6
Spring
MATH 309 
or MATH 356Numerical Methods 
or Introduction to Mathematical
Modeling3For students in departmental honors: Additional 300-level math
class  Hours3 Total Hours55
Transfer-Student Residency Requirement
At least 21 credit hours of Applied Mathematics (BS) must be completed
at Loyola.
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Students will have wide knowledge of and strong skills in using the
methods and tools that form the foundation of applied math. These
include calculus, linear algebra, and differential equations, as well as
statistics and computer sciences.
•Students will acquire foundational knowledge of the language of
formal mathematics and the ability to read and write rigorous and
logical mathematical arguments.
•Students will be able to use applied mathematical knowledge in
a wide variety of contexts. They will be able to model real-world
situations mathematically, making appropriate choices as to the
models and methods to employ. They will analyze these models with
a variety of tools and interpret the results in a meaningful way. They
will be able to present their ﬁndings in clear, professional language.

--- Page 501 ---
532  Mathematics (BS)
•Students will understand how the different areas and methods of
applied math ﬁt together. They will understand how these are used
in modern applied mathematical settings and will also be able to ﬁt
them into a historical context.
Mathematics (BS)
Students earning a B.S. in Mathematics will acquire foundational
knowledge in the ﬁeld, as well as competency in the critical thinking,
technological, and communication skills necessary for its application.
The prevalent use of increasingly complex mathematical models in
every STEM ﬁeld (and beyond), has made facility with the language and
techniques of mathematics a highly desirable skill. Graduating students
are prepared for industry jobs in ﬁnance, tech, risk analysis, climate
science, criminal justice, and the like, as well as teaching careers in
secondary school or junior college. Typical destinations for students
wishing to pursue graduate studies are biology, chemistry, computer
science, economics, engineering, ﬁnance, law, medicine, and of course,
mathematics.
Related Programs
Major
•Mathematics - Education Track (BS)  (p. 533)
Minor
•Mathematics Minor  (p. 535)
Combined
•Mathematics (BS/MS)  (p. 1275 )
Curriculum
AP Credit Policies  (p. 520)
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesFoundational RequirementsMATH 161 Calculus I 4MATH 162Calculus II4
MATH 201 Introduction to Discrete Mathematics & Number
Theory3MATH 212Linear Algebra3
MATH 215 Object-Oriented Programming with Mathematics 3
or COMP 170 Introduction to Object-Oriented ProgrammingMATH 263Multivariable Calculus4
MATH 264 Ordinary Differential Equations 3STAT 203Introduction to Probability & Statistics3or MATH 304 /
STAT 304Introduction to Probability
One year of Modern Algebra:MATH 313Abstract Algebra3
MATH 314 Advanced Topics Abstract Algebra 3
or MATH 315 Advanced Topics in Linear AlgebraOne year of Analysis:MATH 351 Introduction to Real Analysis I 3MATH 352Introduction to Real Analysis II3or MATH 353Introduction to Complex AnalysisTwo 3-credit upper division (300-level) electives in mathematics. 6Science RequirementsSelect two of the following: 6ANTH 101Human OriginsANTH 103 Biological Background Human Social BehaviorBIOL 101General Biology IBIOL 102 General Biology IICHEM 101General Chemistry A Lecture/DiscussionCHEM 102 General Chemistry B Lecture/DiscussionCHEM 160Chemical Structure and PropertiesCHEM 180 Chemical Reactivity IENVS 101The Scientiﬁc Basis of Environmental IssuesENVS 218 Biodiversity & BiogeographyENVS 224Climate & Climate ChangePHYS 121 College Physics I with Calculus Lecture/
DiscussionPHYS 122College Physics II with Calculus Lecture/
DiscussionTotal Hours51
Note:  This degree has waivers for both Quantitative and Scientiﬁc core.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
Note:  This is only one possibility. Among other things, depending on
initial math placement, which can range from MATH 100 to MATH 263,
the schedule will look very different. Especially for students starting at
MATH 161 or above, there is a lot of space to pursue a minor or even a
second major.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
MATH 161 Calculus I 4Science Requirement3 Hours7
SpringMATH 162Calculus II4
MATH 201 Introduction to Discrete Mathematics &
Number Theory3Science Requirement3 Hours10
Year 2
FallMATH 263Multivariable Calculus4MATH 215 
or COMP 170Object-Oriented Programming with
Mathematics 
or Introduction to Object-Oriented
Programming3 Hours7
Spring
MATH 212 Linear Algebra 3MATH 264Ordinary Differential Equations3 Hours6

--- Page 502 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 533
Year 3
FallMATH 313Abstract Algebra3STAT 203 
or MATH 304Introduction to Probability & Statistics 
or Introduction to Probability3 Hours6
Spring
MATH 314 
or MATH 315Advanced Topics Abstract Algebra 
or Advanced Topics in Linear Algebra3300-level Major Elective3 Hours6
Year 4
FallMATH 351Introduction to Real Analysis I3300-level Major Elective3 Hours6
Spring
MATH 352 
or MATH 353Introduction to Real Analysis II 
or Introduction to Complex Analysis3For students in departmental honors: Additional 300-level math
class  Hours3 Total Hours51
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Students will have wide knowledge of and strong skills in using
the methods and tools that form the foundation of math. These
include calculus, linear algebra, and differential equations, as well as
statistics and computer sciences.
•Students will acquire analytical and logical skills that form the basis
of mathematical thinking and reasoning. These skills will enable
problem solving, the abstraction to general principles from speciﬁc
examples, and the ability to use formal mathematical language.
Students will be able to apply these skills in a variety of contexts.
•Students will be fluent in the traditional mathematical subjects such
as abstract algebra and real analysis. They will be able to use the
methods and terminology in these ﬁeld to read and write formal,
logical proofs, and to communicate these both in writing and verbally.•Students will understand how different sub-disciplines of
mathematics ﬁt together. They will be able to use their knowledge
in a variety of modern applications, both within math and in related
disciplines such as science, engineering and tech. They will also be
able to place these in a historical context.
Mathematics - Education Track (BS)
This rigorous course of study in mathematics either coupled with a Major
in Secondary Education  (p. 904) or followed by a Master's Degree in
Education  (p. 869) prepares students for a career in teaching secondary
school mathematics.
This program has been discontinued.  No new admits are being accepted.
Related Programs
Major
•Mathematics (BS)  (p. 532)
Combined
•Mathematics - Education Track/Applied Statistics (BS/MS)  (p. 1287 )
•Mathematics - Education Track/Mathematics (BS/MS)  (p. 1290 )
Curriculum
This program requires 47 total credit hours (39 in Math, 8 in Education).
Code Title Hours
Education Course RequirementsTLSC 110The Profession and Our Program (TLLSC)1
TLSC 120 Bringing Language, Learning & Development
Theory into Practice2TLSC 130Sequence One: 130 Community Immersion1
TLSC 140 Teaching, Learning and Leading for Social Justice 1TLSC 150Constructive Learning Environments For Diverse
Students1
TLSC 160 Analyzing Culturally-Responsive Classroom
Instruction1TLSC 300AProfessional Learning Communities0
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities 1Mathematics Course RequirementsMATH 161 Calculus I 4MATH 162Calculus II4
MATH 201 Introduction to Discrete Mathematics & Number
Theory3MATH 212Linear Algebra3
MATH 215 Object-Oriented Programming with Mathematics 3
or COMP 170 Introduction to Object-Oriented ProgrammingMATH 263Multivariable Calculus4
MATH 301 History of Mathematics 3MATH 313Abstract Algebra3
MATH 318 Combinatorics 3MATH 344Geometry3
MATH 360 Introduction to Game Theory 3STAT 203Introduction to Probability & Statistics3

--- Page 503 ---
534  Mathematics and Computer Science (BS)or STAT 335Introduction to BiostatisticsTotal Hours47
Core Waiver
This degree has a waiver for the Quantitative core.
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Students will have wide knowledge of and strong skills in using
the methods and tools that form the foundation of math. These
include calculus, linear algebra, and differential equations, as well as
statistics and computer sciences.
•Students will acquire analytical and logical skills that form the basis
of mathematical thinking and reasoning. These skills will enable
problem solving, the abstraction to general principles from speciﬁc
examples, and the ability to use formal mathematical language.
Students will be able to apply these skills in written and verbal
communication.
•Students will be exposed to the traditional areas of classical
geometry and abstract algebra. They will be able to use the methods
and terminology in these ﬁelds to understand the role of deﬁnitions,
axioms and theorems that underlie all mathematical ideas. Students
will be exposed to the history of mathematical thought across diverse
cultures.
•Students will obtain an advanced perspective on a variety of
mathematical topics and see how these can be generalized and
employed in real world problems relevant to the high school
curriculum.
•Students will acquire basic knowledge of the teaching and education
profession. Students will be prepared to utilize a variety of teaching
techniques to positively influence student learning and success.
Mathematics and Computer Science
(BS)
The B.S. in Mathematics and Computer Science provides students with
a strong foundation in both ﬁelds. Core courses from the Mathematics
and Computer Science curricula will aid students to develop critical
thinking and communication skills, as well as a technical and practical
understanding of programming and algorithm design. Graduating
students will be prepared for any industry jobs requiring scientiﬁc
computing skills and the ability to analyze, design, and implementalgorithms, such as data mining, ﬁnance, and risk analysis. This major
also prepares students for advanced degrees in computer science,
mathematics, and the STEM ﬁelds.
Related Programs
Major
•Mathematics (BS)  (p. 532)
Combined
•Mathematics and Computer Science/Applied Statistics (BS/MS)
(p. 1282 )
•Mathematics and Computer Science/Mathematics (BS/MS)
(p. 1284 )
Curriculum
AP Credit Policies  (p. 520)
Code Title Hours
Math RequirementsMATH 161Calculus I4
MATH 162 Calculus II 4MATH 201Introduction to Discrete Mathematics & Number
Theory3
MATH 212 Linear Algebra 3MATH 263Multivariable Calculus4
MATH 264 Ordinary Differential Equations 3MATH 313Abstract Algebra3
MATH 351 Introduction to Real Analysis I 3STAT 203Introduction to Probability & Statistics3or MATH 304 /
STAT 304Introduction to Probability
Select two electives in mathematics from the following: 6MATH 309Numerical MethodsMATH 314 Advanced Topics Abstract AlgebraMATH 315Advanced Topics in Linear AlgebraMATH 318 CombinatoricsMATH 331CryptographyMATH 352 Introduction to Real Analysis IIMATH 353Introduction to Complex AnalysisMATH 356 Introduction to Mathematical ModelingMATH 358Introduction to OptimizationMATH 365 Introduction to Partial Differential EquationsMATH 366Applied Dynamical SystemsMATH 386 Introduction to TopologyComputer Science RequirementsCOMP 141 Introduction to Computing Tools and Techniques 3COMP 170Introduction to Object-Oriented Programming3
COMP 264 Introduction to Computer Systems 3COMP 271Data Structures I3
COMP 272 Data Structures II 3COMP 363Design and Analysis Computer Algorithms3
Select two 3-credit electives in Computer Science from the following: 6BIOL 388BioinformaticsMATH 328 Algebraic Coding Theory

--- Page 504 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 535MATH 331CryptographySTAT 321 Computational Aspects of Modeling and
SimulationAny 300-level COMP courseTotal Hours60
Note:  This degree has a waiver for the Quantitative core.
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Students will have wide knowledge of and strong skills in using the
methods and tools that form the foundation of the mathematics and
computer science disciplines. These include calculus, linear algebra,
and differential equations, statistics, modern computer programming.
•Students will acquire analytical and logical skills in the mathematical
and computer sciences. These skills will enable problem solving,
the abstraction to general principles from speciﬁc examples as well
as the ability to design, implement, and evaluate a computational
system to meet a given set of requirements.
•Students will understand traditional mathematical subjects such
as abstract algebra and real analysis. They will be able to use the
methods and terminology in these ﬁelds to read and write formal,
logical proofs, and to communicate these both in writing and verbally.
•Students will understand the design and analysis of computer
algorithms. Students will be exposed to a variety of modern topics
which heavily rely on these algorithms and other knowledge of
computer science.
•Students will understand how different sub-disciplines of
mathematics and different topics learned in computer science ﬁt
together. They will be able to use their knowledge in a variety of
modern applications.
Mathematics Minor
Many majors at Loyola require a year of calculus; with the addition
of just a few more courses you can earn a Mathematics Minor.
Majors in biology, chemistry, economics, engineering and physics
are especially encouraged to consider this option. The foundational
training in mathematics offered by this minor will give students a deeper
understanding of the theoretical underpinnings of their major discipline,
and will equip them with critical thinking and technical communication
skills that will prove invaluable in their pursuit of a STEM career.Related Programs
Minor
•Actuarial Science Minor  (p. 530)
•Data Science Minor  (p. 379)
•Statistics Minor  (p. 537)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesMATH 161Calculus I4
MATH 162 Calculus II 4MATH 263Multivariable Calculus4
Select one of the following three options: 6MATH 212 
& MATH 264Linear Algebra 
and Ordinary Differential EquationsMATH 201 
& MATH 264Introduction to Discrete Mathematics & Number
Theory 
and Ordinary Differential EquationsMATH 201 
& MATH 266Introduction to Discrete Mathematics & Number
Theory 
and Differential Equations and Linear AlgebraAny 300-level Mathematics course3Total Hours21
Double-Dipping Policy
Per our  double dipping policy  (p. 520), at least 6 credit hours must be
unique to this minor.
Learning Outcomes
•Students will acquire knowledge of and strong skills in using the
methods and tools that form the foundation of math. These include
calculus, linear algebra, and differential equations.
•Students will acquire analytical and logical skills that form the basis
of mathematical thinking and reasoning. These skills will enable
problem solving and abstraction in a variety of contexts.
•Students will be exposed to an advanced subject in mathematics
or applied mathematics. They will be able to use the methods
and terminology in this subject to analyze complex mathematical
problems and gain proﬁciency in higher-level mathematical
reasoning.
Statistics (BS)
Students earning a B.S. in Statistics will acquire knowledge of a broad
range of statistical techniques and methods, an understanding of the
mathematical underpinnings of these methods and techniques, and the
computational skills, such as R and SAS, to apply and implement these
methods using real data. Statistics majors are in high demand in industry
in a wide array of ﬁelds such as medical research, technology companies,
pharmaceuticals, insurance, ﬁnance, government, genetics, public health,
sports, and epidemiology to name a few.
Related Programs
Master's
•Applied Statistics (MS)  (p. 1622 )

--- Page 505 ---
536  Statistics (BS)
Combined
•Mathematics - Education Track/Applied Statistics (BS/MS)  (p. 1287 )
•Mathematics and Computer Science/Applied Statistics (BS/MS)
(p. 1282 )
Curriculum
AP Credit Policies  (p. 520)
Code Title Hours
MATH 161 Calculus I 4MATH 162Calculus II4
MATH 212 Linear Algebra 3MATH 263Multivariable Calculus4
STAT 203 Introduction to Probability & Statistics 3
or STAT 335 Introduction to BiostatisticsSTAT 303SAS Programming & Applied Statistics3
STAT 304 Introduction to Probability 3STAT 305Introduction to Mathematical Statistics3
STAT 307 Statistical Design & Analysis of Experiments
(capstone)3STAT 308Applied Regression Analysis3
Science RequirementSelect two of the following:6
ANTH 101 Human OriginsANTH 103Biological Background Human Social BehaviorBIOL 101 General Biology IBIOL 102General Biology IICHEM 101 General Chemistry A Lecture/DiscussionCHEM 102General Chemistry B Lecture/DiscussionCHEM 160 Chemical Structure and PropertiesCHEM 180Chemical Reactivity IENVS 101 The Scientiﬁc Basis of Environmental IssuesENVS 218Biodiversity & BiogeographyENVS 224 Climate & Climate ChangePHYS 121College Physics I with Calculus Lecture/
DiscussionPHYS 122 College Physics II with Calculus Lecture/
DiscussionElectivesSelect three of the following: 9STAT 306Intro to Stochastic ProcessesSTAT 310 Categorical Data AnalysisSTAT 311Applied Survival AnalysisSTAT 321 Computational Aspects of Modeling and
SimulationSTAT 336Advanced BiostatisticsSTAT 337 Quantitative Methods in BioinformaticsSTAT 338Predictive AnalyticsSTAT 344 Longitudinal Data Analysis and Mixed ModellingSTAT 351Nonparametric Statistical MethodsSTAT 370 Data Science ConsultingSTAT 388TopicsTotal Hours48
Note:  This degree has waivers for both Quantitative and Scientiﬁc core.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
Note:  This is only one possibility. Among other things, depending on
initial math placement, which can range from MATH 100 to MATH 263,
the schedule will look very different. Especially for students starting at
MATH 161 or above, there is a lot of space to pursue a minor or even a
second major.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
FallMATH 161Calculus I4 Hours4
Spring
MATH 162 Calculus II 4STAT 203Introduction to Probability & Statistics3 Hours7
Year 2
FallMATH 263Multivariable Calculus4
STAT 303 SAS Programming & Applied Statistics 3Science Requirement3 Hours10
SpringMATH 212Linear Algebra3
STAT 308 Applied Regression Analysis 3Science Requirement3 Hours9
Year 3
FallSTAT 304Introduction to Probability3 Hours3
SpringSTAT 305Introduction to Mathematical Statistics3300-level Major Elective3 Hours6
Year 4
Fall
STAT 307 Statistical Design & Analysis of
Experiments3300-level Major Elective3 Hours6
Spring300-level Major Elective3For students in departmental honors: Additional 300-level math
class  Hours3 Total Hours48

--- Page 506 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 537
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•After completing STAT 203 and STAT 304, students majoring in
statistics will understand the fundamentals of probability theory by
applying them properly to statistical methods.
•After completing introductory statistics courses (STAT 203, STAT
303, STAT 308), students majoring in statistics will be able to analyze
and interpret descriptive statistics through a report.
•Upon completing the program, students majoring in statistics will be
able to properly use statistical reasoning as it applies to inferential
methods in a written analysis and/or oral presentation.
•Upon completing the program, students majoring in statistics
will be able to create and interpret statistical models including
understanding the limitations of the model in a written analysis and/
or oral presentation.
•Upon completing the program, students majoring in statistics will be
able to use statistical software to generate appropriate output for
data analysis.
Statistics Minor
Students earning a Minor in Statistics will acquire knowledge of
statistical techniques and methods, and the computational skills, such
as R and SAS, to apply and implement these methods using real data.
Students with statistical training are in high demand in industry in a
wide array of ﬁelds such as medical research, technology companies,
pharmaceuticals, insurance, ﬁnance, government, genetics, public health,
sports, and epidemiology to name a few.
Related Programs
Minor
•Actuarial Science Minor  (p. 530)
•Data Science Minor  (p. 379)
•Mathematics Minor  (p. 535)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesRequired Mathematics CoursesSelect one of the following: 6-8MATH 161 
& MATH 162Calculus I 
and Calculus IIMATH 131 
& MATH 132Applied Calculus I 
and Applied Calculus IIRequired Statistics CoursesSTAT 203 Introduction to Probability & Statistics 3
or STAT 335 Introduction to BiostatisticsSTAT 303SAS Programming & Applied Statistics3
ElectivesSelect two of the following:6
STAT 304 Introduction to ProbabilitySTAT 305Introduction to Mathematical StatisticsSTAT 306 Intro to Stochastic ProcessesSTAT 307Statistical Design & Analysis of ExperimentsSTAT 308 Applied Regression AnalysisSTAT 310Categorical Data AnalysisSTAT 311 Applied Survival AnalysisSTAT 321Computational Aspects of Modeling and
SimulationSTAT 336 Advanced BiostatisticsSTAT 337Quantitative Methods in BioinformaticsSTAT 338 Predictive AnalyticsSTAT 344Longitudinal Data Analysis and Mixed ModellingSTAT 351 Nonparametric Statistical MethodsSTAT 370Data Science ConsultingSTAT 388TopicsTotal Hours18
Double-Dipping Policy
Per our  double dipping policy  (p. 520), at least 6 credit hours must be
unique to this minor.
Learning Outcomes
•Students will understand the fundamentals of introductory probability
and statistics and the mathematics necessary for these subjects.
•Students will develop a solid understanding of foundational
statistical programming to effectively work with data, conduct
statistical analyses, and generate meaningful insights, enhancing
readiness for statistical roles in various professional settings.
•Students will understand several advanced statistical techniques.
They will be able to use these to analyze and interpret data, and
effectively communicate ﬁndings and conclusions.
Theoretical Physics and Applied
Mathematics (BS)
The laws and theories of modern physics are formulated in the language
of modern mathematics. In the past, students wishing to study the
basic physical laws governing our universe might have gotten away with
proﬁciency in multivariable calculus; but no longer. Since the advent
of statistical mechanics, quantum mechanics, and the like, a solid
foundation in analysis, abstract algebra, and statistics is also essential.
Students pursuing a B.S. in Theoretical Physics and Applied Mathematics
with gain exposure to these modern physical theories and to the abstract
mathematics underpinning them. Graduating students will be well-

--- Page 507 ---
538  Theoretical Physics and Applied Mathematics (BS)
prepared for advanced degrees in applied mathematics, physics, or
engineering.
Related Programs
Major
•Mathematics (BS)  (p. 532)
•Physics (BS)  (p. 617)
Combined
•Theoretical Physics and Applied Mathematics/Applied Statistics (BS/
MS) (p. 1393 )
•Theoretical Physics and Applied Mathematics/Mathematics (BS/MS)
(p. 1396 )
Curriculum
AP Credit Policies  (p. 520)
Code Title Hours
Mathematics Course RequirementsMATH 161Calculus I4
MATH 162 Calculus II 4MATH 201Introduction to Discrete Mathematics & Number
Theory3
MATH 212 Linear Algebra 3MATH 263Multivariable Calculus4
MATH 264 Ordinary Differential Equations 3MATH 313Abstract Algebra3
MATH 351 Introduction to Real Analysis I 3MATH 353Introductory Complex Analysis3
PHYS 130 Introduction to Computational Physics 3
or MATH 215 Object-Oriented Programming with MathematicsPhysics Course RequirementsPHYS 121 College Physics I with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3PHYS 111LCollege Physics Laboratory I1
PHYS 122 College Physics II with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3PHYS 112LCollege Physics Lab II1
PHYS 126F Freshman Projects 1PHYS 235Modern Physics3
PHYS 235L Modern Physics Laboratory 1PHYS 301Mathematical Methods in Physics3
PHYS 314 Theoretical Mechanics I 3PHYS 351Electricity and Magnetism I3
PHYS 328 Thermal Physical & Statistical Mechanics 3PHYS 338Advanced Physics Laboratory2PHYS 361Quantum Mechanics I3Total Hours63
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as thestart term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
First Year
Fall
PHYS 121 College Physics I with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3PHYS 111LCollege Physics Laboratory I1
MATH 161 Calculus I 4UCWR 110Writing Responsibly3Core3 Hours14
Spring
PHYS 122 College Physics II with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3PHYS 112LCollege Physics Lab II1
PHYS 126F Freshman Projects 1MATH 162Calculus II4
COMP 215 /
MATH 215 
or PHYS 130Object Oriented Programming with
Mathematics 
or Introduction to Computational
Physics3Core3 Hours15
Second Year
FallPHYS 235Modern Physics3
PHYS 235L Modern Physics Laboratory 1MATH 263Multivariable Calculus4
MATH 264 Ordinary Differential Equations 3Core3 Hours14
SpringMATH 201Introduction to Discrete Mathematics &
Number Theory3
MATH 212 Linear Algebra 3PHYS 314Theoretical Mechanics I3
PHYS 301 Mathematical Methods in Physics 3Core3 Hours15
Third Year
FallPHYS 351Electricity and Magnetism I3
MATH 313 Abstract Algebra 3MATH 351Introduction to Real Analysis I3
Core 3General Elective3 Hours15
SpringPHYS 361Quantum Mechanics I3
Core 3Core3
Core 3

--- Page 508 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 539General Elective3 Hours15
Fourth Year
FallMATH 353Introduction to Complex Analysis3
PHYS 328 Thermal Physical & Statistical Mechanics 3Core3
Core 3Core3 Hours15
SpringPHYS 338Advanced Physics Laboratory2
Core 3Core3
General Elective 3General Elective3General Elective3 Hours17 Total Hours120
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
Loyola University Chicago’s major in Theoretical Physics / Applied
Mathematics is an interdisciplinary program that provides extensive
training in both physics and mathematics. It prepares students for
graduate study in physics, mathematics, or applied mathematics;
careers in ﬁelds such as engineering or computer science that value
quantitative reasoning and mathematical modeling; or technical training
in professions like medicine, dentistry, or law.
Students majoring in Theoretical Physics / Applied Mathematics
possess a versatile set of skills that are well-suited to data science,
numerical modeling, and quantitative analysis. They may pursue
careers in higher education, at research institutes or government labs,
or in high-tech industries. Recent majors have gone on to world class
graduate programs in ﬁelds ranging from physics to neuroscience, and
programming jobs at major tech companies.
The course of study for the Theoretical Physics / Applied Mathematics
major covers the core classes in the Physics major, provides laboratoryexperience, and adds a comprehensive mathematics component. Upon
completion of this program, students will:
•Exhibit foundational knowledge in both physics and mathematics.
•Be able to develop and interpret mathematical models that provide
both quantitative and qualitative understanding of physical systems.
•Possess intermediate level laboratory skills that will serve as a
foundation for more advanced training in graduate or professional
school.
•Recognize how careful data collection and analysis helps develop or
falsify scientiﬁc theories.
•Demonstrate effective and ethical decision-making abilities in issues
related to the sciences.
Medieval Studies Interdisciplinary
Program
The minor in Medieval Studies is designed for students who want to
learn more about the Middle Ages in all its multicultural splendor, without
limiting themselves to a single academic discipline. This program
encourages students to explore the medieval world through a variety
of approaches through courses taught in our four core departments
of History, Theology, English and Philosophy, plus course offerings in
Classical Studies, Modern Languages and the various areas of Fine Arts.
Undergraduate Programs
•Medieval Studies Minor  (p. 539)
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Medieval Studies (MSTU)
MSTU 300   Integrative Experience I   (1.5 Credit Hours)   
This course is the ﬁrst in a two-semester sequence of courses designed
to provide students with a synoptic view of the ﬁeld of Medieval Studies
and train them to do cross-disciplinary work within that ﬁeld.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Medieval Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to produce original research on some topic
pertaining to the Middle Ages that utilizes and integrates no less than
two methodologies drawn from diverse disciplines
MSTU 301   Integrative Experience II   (1.5 Credit Hours)   
This course is the second in a two-semester sequence of courses
designed to provide students with a synoptic view of the ﬁeld of Medieval
Studies and train them to do cross-disciplinary work within that ﬁeld.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Medieval Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to produce original research on some topic
pertaining to the Middle Ages that utilizes and integrates no less than
two methodologies drawn from diverse disciplines
Medieval Studies Minor
The minor in Medieval Studies is designed for students who want to
learn more about the Middle Ages in all its multicultural splendor, without

--- Page 509 ---
540  Middle East and Islamic World Studies Interdisciplinary Studies
limiting themselves to a single academic discipline. This program
encourages students to explore the medieval world through a variety
of approaches through courses taught in our four core departments
of History, Theology, English and Philosophy, plus course offerings in
Classical Studies, Modern Languages and the various areas of Fine Arts.
The Medieval Seminar ( MSTU 300 Integrative Experience I  & MSTU 301
Integrative Experience II ), taught over two semesters, is an exciting
opportunity to work closely with medievalist faculty here at Loyola on
an interdisciplinary project of your own design. Our associated annual
lecture series, with a different theme every year, introduces students
to cutting-edge medievalist scholars from across North America (and
beyond, thanks to Zoom) and models the global, relevant and innovative
work done in this fascinating ﬁeld.
Related Programs
Major
•Classical Civilization (BA)  (p. 346)
Minor
•Classical Civilization Minor  (p. 347)
•History Minor  (p. 506)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Required Foundational CoursesMSTU 300Integrative Experience I1.5
MSTU 301 Integrative Experience II 1.5Required Choice Areas9
One course from three of the four areas in the course optionsRequired Electives6Choose two courses from the course optionsTotal Hours18
Required Choice Area and Elective Course Options
For required choice area courses, choose at least one approved course on
medieval topics from three of the four different core departments: History,
Theology, Philosophy or English.
Electives can be chosen from any subject area.
Code Title Hours
EnglishENGL 320English Literature: Medieval Period3
ENGL 321 Intro to Anglo-Saxon 3ENGL 322Chaucer3
ENGL 323 Studies in Medieval Literature 3HistoryHIST 253A Barbarians and the Fall of the Roman Empire 3HIST 254AThe Vikings3
HIST 257A Witchcraft and Science in Pre-Modern Europe 3HIST 303Pre-Industrial City in Europe3
HIST 309 Shipwreck Archaeology 3HIST 310The Middle Ages3
HIST 310A Medieval World 1100-1500 3HIST 310CMedieval Women3
HIST 310D Medieval Popular Religion 3HIST 310FMedieval Inquisitions and Heresy3
HIST 310G Supernatural in the Middle Ages 3HIST 310LLove and Violence in Medieval Culture and Society3
HIST 311B The Crusades: Christianity and Islam 3HIST 312England to 14853
HIST 314 Renaissance 3HIST 340BIntroduction to Islamic History3
PhilosophyPHIL 305Medieval Philosophy3
PHIL 320 The Philosophy of St Augustine 3PHIL 340Philosophy of St Thomas Aquinas3
PHIL 396 Seminar in Medieval Philosophy 3TheologyTHEO 281 Christianity Through Time 3THEO 317Christian Thought: Ancient-Medieval3
Other Elective OptionsFNAR 338Medieval Art3
FREN 314 Survey of Medieval Literature 3ITAL 312Dante-The Divine Comedy3
ITAL 314 Survey 13th & 14th Century Literature 3LATN 387Medieval Latin3
SPAN 314 Survey of Medieval Literature 3
Double-Dipping Policy
This department observes the  CAS Double-Dipping Policy  (https://
www.luc.edu/cas/double-dippingpolicy/ ) regarding unique credits
required for each declared major/minor. Not less than 6 credit hours in
the individual student’s transcript must be unique to this minor; that is,
the courses in question are considered as actually fulﬁlling requirements
of one minor, not of more than one minor or major.
Transfer-Student Residency Requirement
At least 9 credit hours of MSTU-MINR requirements must be completed
at Loyola.
Learning Outcomes
Students who complete the Medieval Studies Minor will:
•Appreciate the multicultural, multireligious cultures of the global
Middle Ages and recognize the roots of many modern global issues.
•Obtain hands-on experience integrating methods and approaches
from various academic disciplines in their research into the Medieval
period.
•Initiate and complete a multidisciplinary project of their own creation
with support from appropriate scholars working in the ﬁeld.
Middle East and Islamic World
Studies Interdisciplinary Studies
Loyola's Middle East and Islamic World Studies minor introduces
students to the Middle East and Islamic civilization.
Undergraduate Programs
•Middle East and Islamic World Studies Minor  (p. 541)

--- Page 510 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 541
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Islamic World Studies (IWS) 
IWS IWS   Survey of Islamic History   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course will introduce the historical development of Islamic
civilization and the formation of Muslim social and political institutions
from the 7th century to the present.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge of the historical
development and diversity of Islamic beliefs, practices, and institutions in
varied regional contexts and historical periods
Middle East and Islamic World
Studies Minor
Loyola's Middle East and Islamic World Studies minor introduces
students to the Middle East and Islamic civilization. The minor  offers
a unique opportunity to think differently about the Middle East, Islam,
Muslim societies, and their influence around the world. Through a
rigorous interdisciplinary approach, students explore history, culture,
politics, and religion across the Middle East and in Muslim societies
around the world. Students are strongly encouraged to study abroad
in a Middle Eastern or Muslim country and enhance their academic
knowledge through real life exposure to Middle Eastern and Islamic
cultures.
Related Programs
Minor
•Arabic Language and Culture Minor  (p. 566)
•Asian Studies Minor  (p. 277)
•Race Ethnicity Interdisciplinary Minor  (p. 655)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Required Course 3Select one of the following:HIST 209 Islamic History: Themes & IssuesHONR 212AEncountering the Middle Eastor HONR 212BEncountering the Middle Eastor HONR 212CEncountering the Middle East
PLSC 368 Politics of the Middle EastTHEO 295IslamElectives 12Select four of the following:ANTH 213 Culture in Africa 1ANTH 220Contemporary Cultures of the Middle EastANTH 361 Issues Cultural Anthropology 1ARAB 101Arabic IARAB 102 Arabic 102ARAB 103Arabic 103ARAB 104 Arabic 104ARAB 250Advanced Composition And ConversationARAB 251 Advanced Composition and Conversation IICLST 278Experiencing MesopotamiaCOMM 203 Topics in Cinema HistoryENGL 315South Asian Literatures in EnglishFNAR 352 Islam and Visual CultureHIST 209Islamic History: Themes & Issues 2HIST 213 African History: Themes & IssuesHIST 300Topics in History 1HIST 311B The Crusades: Christianity and IslamHIST 327AThe Balkans: History, Fiction, FilmHIST 340B Introduction to Islamic HistoryHIST 341Modern Middle EastHIST 341B Arab-Israeli ConflictHIST 342BAfrican History Post-1600HIST 342C The History of Islam in AfricaHIST 343Modern South AsiaHIST 359D The Ottoman Empire: A Global PerspectiveHIST 359HAnti-Colonial Resistance in the Twentieth CenturyHIST 380A Islam in the African-American ExperienceHNDI 101Hindi-Urdu IHNDI 102 Hindi-Urdu IIHNDI 103Hindi-Urdu IIIHNDI 104 Hindi-Urdu IVHONR 210AEncountering AfricaHONR 210B Encountering AfricaHONR 210CEncountering AfricaLITR 238 Arabic Literature in TranslationLITR 243South Asian LiteratureLITR 280 World Masterpieces in Translation 1PHIL 308Islamic PhilosophyPLSC 300B Contemporary Political Issues: Political TheoryPLSC 331Islamic Political ThoughtPLSC 340 International Relations of AfricaPLSC 342African PoliticsSOCL 280 Topics in Contemporary Sociology 1THEO 231Hebrew Bible/Old TestamentTHEO 272 JudaismTHEO 350Topics in IslamTHEO 365 Women, Gender and Embodiment in IslamTHEO 366Contemporary Islamic Thought and MovementsURDU 101 Introductory Urdu IURDU 102Introductory Urdu IITotal Hours15
1These are topics courses. Only selected sections can count toward the
minor.
2Cannot apply toward electives if used as a required course.
Additional Requirements
No more than four courses may be taken from any one
department. Language courses such as Arabic or Hindi-Urdu at any level
may count for up to six units (two courses) of the minor. Up to nine units
(three courses) may be shared with any Major or Minor program. Waiver

--- Page 511 ---
542  Military Science
will be offered for courses taken during study abroad in a Middle Eastern
or Muslim country.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
Students can begin the Middle East and Islamic World Studies minor
at any point in their undergraduate studies, in consultation with
their advisor. While there is no set sequence of classes, students are
encouraged to take one of the foundational required courses early on, to
gain a general understanding of the Middle East or Islamic hist ory and
culture. Once students have declared the minor, they are encouraged
to contact their academic advisor or the Middle East and Islami c World
Studies Program Director for further guidance on how best to progress
with their studies.
Learning Outcomes
•The minor enables students to appreciate the complexities of the
Middle East and the Islamic civilization, and understand the past
and present global networks linking these societies to the rest of the
world. Through an interdisciplinary approach, students take courses
on history, literature, art, language, philosophy, politics, and religion
to gain knowledge about the Middle East and contemporary Islamic
world.
Military Science
About Us
Based out of the north side of Chicago, the Rambler Battalion is
hosted at Loyola University. The satellite schools include DePaul
University, Northeastern Illinois University, North Park University,
and Northwestern University. Located on the bustling north side of
Chicago, the Rambler Battalion cadets have access to nearly unlimited
resources for educational and professional development. The diversity
of the neighborhood gives a valuable cultural perspective hard to ﬁnd
elsewhere. Our Battalion consists of cadets from all over the country and
from many different backgrounds. The cadre assigned to our Battalion
are highly experienced, well trained soldiers of the Army with over 60
years of combined time in service. Additionally, the Battalion has several
civilian employees who work in support of the program's success. Overall,
the Rambler Battalion Army ROTC program provides excellent training
in leadership development, military skills, academics, and physical
readiness.
Academics
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Freshman
Fall Hours
MLSC 101 Introduction to the Army 1MLSC 151Physical Readiness Training1 Hours2
SpringMLSC 102Foundations of Leadership1MLSC 152Physical Training II1 Hours2Sophomore
Fall
MLSC 201 Leadership and Ethics 2MLSC 251Physical Training III1 Hours3
SpringMLSC 202Army Doctrine and Decision Making2MLSC 252Physical Training IV1 Hours3
Junior
Fall
MLSC 301 Training Management and the Warﬁghting
Functions3MLSC 351Physical Training V1 Hours4
SpringMLSC 302Applied Leadership in Small Unit
Operations3MLSC 352Physical Training VI1 Hours4
Senior
Fall
MLSC 311 The Army Ofﬁcer 3MLSC 361Physical Training VII1 Hours4
SpringMLSC 312Company Grade Leadership3MLSC 362Physical Training VIII1 Hours4 Total Hours26
Military History Course- Any Semester
All ROTC cadets across the country are required to take a college level
history course that focuses on U.S. military history and the history of
the profession of arms. Speciﬁc courses that meet the requirements
established by U.S. Army Training and Doctrine Command are determined
by the Professor of Military Science. For a list of courses that fulﬁll
the military history requirement at your university, please contact your
Military Science Instructor.
In addition to these approved courses, the Military Science Department
offers a three credit hour, independent study course that is taken online
through the ROTC Blackboard learning system. This course can be found
in Loyola's course catalog under:
MLSC 399 Military History - Independent Study

--- Page 512 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 543
Military Science (MLSC)
MLSC 101   Introduction to the Army   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  This course is open to all students   
MLSC 101 consists of both lecture and lab sections. Focuses on
introduction to the Army and basic Soldier skills. Students receive an
introduction to the Army Profession and examine what it means to be a
professional in the U.S. Army.
Outcomes:
Understand the basic structure of the US Army and its customs and
courtesies; Accept the Army as a Values-based organization and embrace
the scholar-athlete-warrior ethos
MLSC 102   Foundations of Leadership   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  This course is open to all students   
MLSC 102 consists of both lecture and lab sections. Introduces students
to the personal challenges and competencies that are critical for effective
leadership.
Outcomes:
Understand the basic structure of the US Army and its customs and
courtesies; Accept the Army as a Values-based organization and embrace
the scholar-athlete-warrior ethos
MLSC 201   Leadership and Ethics   (2 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  This course is open to all students   
MLSC 201 consists of both lecture and lab sections. Focuses on
leadership and ethics. Adds depth to the student's knowledge of the
different leadership styles.
Outcomes:
Student grounded in foundational leadership doctrine and skills,
comprehends critical thinking, problem-solving, and value of diversity,
understands the ofﬁcer's role in leading change and the Army as a
profession
MLSC 202   Army Doctrine and Decision Making   (2 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  This course is open to all students   
MLSC 202 consists of both lecture and lab sections. Focuses on Army
doctrine and decision making. Begins with analytical techniques , creative
thinking skills and the Army problem solving process as related to
situations faced by leaders when making decisions.
Outcomes:
Student grounded in foundational leadership doctrine and skills,
comprehends critical thinking, problem-solving, and value of diversity,
understands the ofﬁcer's role in leading change and the Army as a
profession
MLSC 250   Physical Readiness Training   (1 Credit Hour)   
This course is designed to develop the ﬁtness capabilities of future Army
ofﬁcers. Students will be introduced to and become proﬁcient in the
physical components of muscular strength, muscular endurance, aerobic
endurance, anaerobic endurance, and power.
Outcomes:
Future Army ofﬁcers ready to meet the physical demands of any duty or
combat position, move lethally on the battleﬁeld, accomplish the mission
and continue to ﬁght, win, and come home healthyMLSC 301   Training Management and the Warﬁghting Functions   (3
Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Restricted to ROTC students; MLSC 202 or departmental
consent is required   
MLSC 301 consists of both lecture and lab sections. Focuses on training
management and the warﬁghting functions. Student will study, practice,
and apply the fundamentals of Training Management and how the Army
operates through the Warﬁghting Functions.
Outcomes:
Student who possesses enhanced individual and collective skills,
effectively leads formations in various scenarios, effective at receiving
and giving peer evaluations, committed and disciplined ethically,
academically, physically, and socially
MLSC 302   Applied Leadership in Small Unit Operations   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Restricted to ROTC students; MLSC 301 or departmental
consent is required   
MLSC 302 consists of both lecture and lab sections; focuses on
applied leadership in small unit operations; analyze, test, and relate the
fundamentals of direct level leadership and small unit tactics at the
platoon level.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Student who possesses enhanced individual and collective skills,
effectively leads formations in various scenarios, effective at receiving
and giving peer evaluations, committed and disciplined ethically,
academically, physically, and socially; Successful completion of this
course will help prepare contracted Army ROTC students for the Cadet
Summer Training Advance Camp, which students normally attend
summer of junior year at Fort Knox, KY
MLSC 311   The Army Ofﬁcer   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Restricted to ROTC students   
MLSC 302 or departmental consent is required. MLSC 311 consists of
both lecture and lab sections. Focuses on development of the Army
Ofﬁcer. Students will learn about Army programs that support counseling
subordinates and evaluating performance, values and ethics, career
planning, and legal responsibilities.
Outcomes:
Produces a leader of character possessing a professional identity, who
thrives in operationally ambiguous environments and is a moral exemplar
and skilled critical thinker, problem solver, and team builder
MLSC 312   Company Grade Leadership   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Restricted to ROTC students   
MLSC 311 or departmental consent is required. MLSC 312 consists of
both lecture and lab sections. Develop knowledge, skills, and abilities
required of junior ofﬁcers pertaining to the Army in Multidomain
Operations and Company Grade Ofﬁcer roles and responsibilities.
Outcomes:
Produces a leader of character possessing a professional identity, who
thrives in operationally ambiguous environments and is a moral exemplar
and skilled critical thinker, problem solver, and team builder; Successful
completion of this course will assist in preparing contracted ROTC
students for the Basic Ofﬁcer Leadership Course-B and is a mand atory
requirement for commissioning

--- Page 513 ---
544  Modern Languages and Literatures
MLSC 399   Military History - Independent Study   (3 Credit Hours)   
This is an online, independent study course and is open to all students.
This course provides students with a historical perspective into decisions
made by American military leaders; challenges encountered as an
Army ofﬁcer - battleﬁeld complexity, resource limitations, teamwork
deﬁciencies - circumstances that are faced on the contemporary
operational environment and are required to make an informed decision.
Outcomes:
Upon completing this course students will understand the history of the
United States military, the decisions that have accompanied its changes
and inevitably be a stronger and more decisive leader
Modern Languages and Literatures
About Us
The Department of Modern Languages and Literatures offers coursework
in many languages. Exact offerings vary each semester, but typical
courses include Arabic, Chinese, French, German, Hebrew, Hindi/Urdu,
Italian, Japanese, Polish, Russian and Spanish. We offer BA degree
programs in French, Italian and Spanish, and an MA degree program in
Hispanic Studies.
Several minors are offered in language study, while others combine
language, literature and culture.
Our department also offers Literature in Translation  (p. 2785 ) courses,
which are courses taught in English with content from foreign literature
and ﬁlm.
Many of our courses fulﬁll interdisciplinary program requirements.
Students may earn credit in Asian Studies, African Studies and the
African Diaspora, Catholic Studies, Global and International Studies,
Islamic World Studies, Latin American Studies, and Women's Studies and
Gender Studies. The department offers faculty-led summer programs
https://www.luc.edu/modernlang/study_abroad.shtml  (https://
www.luc.edu/modernlang/study_abroad.shtml/ ) in Córdoba (Spain) and
elsewhere, varying from year to year.
The department has full-time faculty members with strong dedication
to undergraduate and graduate teaching, and a ﬁrm commitment to
research. Study in the Department of Modern Languages and Literatures
encourages close contact between faculty and students. In the tradition
of the university at large, we value the individual.
We take pride in the diverse cultural, educational, intellectual and
recreational opportunities available in the city of Chicago. Join us and
experience all this for yourself.
For more information, please contact us  (https://www.luc.edu/
modernlang/contactus.shtml/ ).
Mission Statement
The Department of Modern Languages and Literatures is committed
to teaching students to develop linguistic, cultural, and literary
competencies in world languages that are critical to engaging in our
diverse global society. Through an interdisciplinary approach, faculty
members seek to educate students as world citizens by helping them
acquire knowledge, awareness, and empathy that allows them to uphold
Loyola University Chicago’s Jesuit principles of service and social justice.Undergraduate Programs
•Arabic Language and Culture Minor  (p. 566)
•Asian Language and Literatures Minor  (p. 567)
•Chinese Language and Culture Minor  (p. 568)
•French (BA)  (p. 570)
•French Language and Literature Minor  (p. 571)
•French Language Minor  (p. 571)
•German Studies Minor  (p. 572)
•Hispanic Studies (BA/MA)  (p. 1237 )
•Italian (BA)  (p. 575)
•Italian American Studies Minor  (p. 576)
•Italian Language and Literature Minor  (p. 577)
•Italian Language Minor  (p. 577)
•Italian Studies (BA)  (p. 578)
•Japanese Language and Culture Minor  (p. 580)
•Literature in Translation Minor  (p. 581)
•Spanish (BA)  (p. 582)
•Spanish Language and Literature Minor  (p. 583)
•Spanish Language Minor  (p. 584)
Modern Languages and Literatures
Department Policies
Double Dipping Policy
1.Students may not major and minor in the same discipline.
2.Majors: Not less than 21 credit hours in the individual student’s
transcript must be unique to each major; that is, the courses in
question are considered as actually fulﬁlling requirements of one
major, not of more than one major.
3.Minors and interdisciplinary minors: not less than 8 credit hours in
the individual student’s transcript must be unique to each minor;
that is, the courses in question are considered as actually fulﬁlling
requirements of one minor, not of more than one minor or major.
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
American Sign Language (ASL)
ASL 101   American Sign Language I   (3 Credit Hours)   
ASL 101 is the ﬁrst class in the American Sign Language series at Loyola.
It presents the basic skills and use of ASL and basic knowledge of Deaf &
Hard of Hearing Culture.
Outcomes:
Students will: 1) demonstrate the basic abilities to comprehend and
communicate in ASL; 2) demonstrate an understanding of Deaf & H ard of
Hearing communities

--- Page 514 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 545
ASL 102   American Sign Language II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ASL 101 or equivalent   
This course is designed for students who have completed a college level
ASL I course and have a basic knowledge of ASL. It is the second course
in the ASL series at Loyola and presents intermediate skills and use of
ASL and continued working knowledge of Deaf & Hard of Hearing culture.
Outcomes:
Students will: 1) demonstrate abilities to comprehend and communicate
in ASL at an intermediate level; 2) demonstrate an understanding of Deaf
& Hard of Hearing communities
ASL 103   American Sign Language III   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of ASL 102, or prior to enrolling in ASL 103,
students must consult ASL professors for language placement, ensuring
readiness based on prior experience   
This course includes vocabulary-building and mastery of grammar
through rigorous receptive and expressive activities. ASL skills
development applied to complex grammatical structures. Topics include
location and description of items in rooms and buildings, complaints,
making suggestions, and making requests. Depicting /Indicating verb
grammatical structures introduced. Discussions of Deaf culture. 2)
Acquire adequate speed in expressive and receptive signing skills. 3)
Expand sign terminology in areas such as classiﬁers, sentence types,
numbers, NMS
Outcomes:
1) Demonstrate fluency in expressive, receptive ﬁngerspelling/numbering
in ASL
ASL 104   American Sign Language IV   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of ASL 103, or prior to enrolling in ASL 104,
students must consult ASL professors for language placement, ensuring
readiness based on prior experience   
This intermediate ASL course reﬁnes students¿ expressive and
receptive skills. Advanced linguistic structures introduced and put into
practice. Vocabulary-building in speciﬁc challenging areas: academics,
occupations, computer technologies, and abstract nouns. Current events
discussed in ASL, giving students opportunities to apply linguistic-
cultural knowledge while participating in open discussions. 2) Narrate
and describe events in connected, paragraph-length ASL discourse. 3)
Exchange information and perspectives in group settings at intermediate
level.
Outcomes:
1) Comprehension and expression with intermediate ASL vocabulary and
correct grammar
Arabic (ARAB)
ARAB 101   Arabic I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is designed for beginners and those with modest
acquaintance to Arabic. Through a culturally rich context, it focuses on
functional articulation of Modern Standard Arabic with a limited exposure
to Damascene (Shaami) dialect.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Arabic Language and Culture, Islamic World
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  ARAB101/IWS101A   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to write simple sentences, understand selected
principles of basic grammar and vocabulary, and will be introduced to
Modern Standard Arabic as well as to a modern spoken dialect; Students
will learn aspects of Arab cultureARAB 102   Arabic 102   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ARAB 101 completed with C- or higher   
This course continues focusing on active functional use of Modern
Standard Arabic and Damascene dialect to help students develop
speaking, listening, reading comprehension, and writing skills in diverse
sociocultural contexts. Students with equivalent preparation must be
assessed for placement.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Arabic Language and Culture, Islamic World
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ARAB102/IWS102A   
Outcomes:
Students are expected to be able to sustain conversations on daily life
topics, to comprehend and compose simple authentic multimodal texts,
and integrate interdisciplinary knowledge of the Arab world (language,
religion, history, geography, or cultures) through a project
ARAB 103   Arabic 103   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ARAB 102 completed with C- or higher   
This course continues focusing on active functional use of Modern
Standard Arabic and Damascene dialect in familiar topics reflecting the
behavior of native speakers. Students are expected to reach low-mid
intermediate proﬁciency levels. Students with equivalent preparation
must be assessed for placement.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Arabic Language and Culture, Islamic World
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  ARAB103/IWS103A   
Outcomes:
Students are expected to be able to initiate and sustain simple social
interactions about self and immediate environment; Students will be
able to comprehend and compose simple authentic multimodal texts
and apply such interdisciplinary knowledge of the Arab world (language,
religion, history, geography, or cultures) through a ﬁnal project
ARAB 104   Arabic 104   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ARAB 103 completed with C- or higher   
The course help students build an active learning solid foundation in the
intermediate level of functional use of Arabic. Students are expected
to learn how to own their learning process and engage critically in
representations of self and others. Students with equivalent preparation
must be assessed for placement.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Arabic Language and Culture, Islamic World
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ARAB104/IWS104A   
Outcomes:
Students are expected to be able to compose and comprehend more
complex authentic multi modal texts in topics of relevance to student,
investments and ﬁelds of study; They will articulate their integrative
interdisciplinary knowledge of the Arab world through a ﬁnal project

--- Page 515 ---
546  Modern Languages and Literatures
ARAB 250   Advanced Composition And Conversation   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ARAB 104 or equivalent; Students' self-assessment is not
sufﬁcient for placement in an appropriate level of Arabic class   
The focus of the course assignments is to connect classroom work
and community-based service learning into a constructive coordinated
dual relationship. Bedsides classroom language learning, students
will complete 20 hours in community-based work at an organization of
service to Arab and Muslim immigrants and refugees. Some readings
may be in English.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Arabic Language and Culture, Islamic World
Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  ARAB250/IWS250A   
Outcomes:
Students will synthesize classroom and community-based learning
contexts to reflect on collective and individual explorations of concepts
of civic engagement with Arab/Muslim communities; They will
demonstrate awareness of self and community through learning
portfolios and public presentations
ARAB 251   Advanced Composition and Conversation II   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course emphasizes the development of advanced Arabic speaking
and writing skills and examines grammar and vocabulary in relation to
advanced skill development. Conducted entirely in Arabic.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Arabic Language and Culture, Islamic World
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ARAB251/IWS251A   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate advanced reading, writing, listening,
and speaking skills in Arabic; Students will also be able to demonstrate
knowledge of signiﬁcant aspects of the Arab world and culture in relation
to their major ﬁeld of study
Asian Studies (ASIA)
ASIA 101   Explorations in Asian Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces the histories and cultures of East, Southeast, and
South Asia from early modern times to the present.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ASIA101/INTS202   
ASIA 130   Introduction to Martial Arts   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces the student to Chinese Wushu. Two forms of
Wushu will be selected for in depth study each semester. Students will
explore the origins of the sports studied and their importance to Chinese
culture and philosophy while learning the speciﬁc physical techniques.
Course equivalencies:  THTR130/ASIA130   
Outcomes:
Students will improve their balance, flexibility and coordination while
learning the basic moves of two forms of Wushu; They will develop a
reference for appreciating the place of Wushu in Chinese culture and
create a foundation for further Wushu training
ASIA 152   Drawing China   (3 Credit Hours)   
This is an introductory drawing course. There are no pre-requisites nor
prior experience need to succeed in this course. Beijing is our  laboratory
and the topic of all class drawings.
Course equivalencies:  FNAR152/ASIA152   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to draw trees, buildings, automobiles, vegetables,
human beings in real life situations and in perspectiveASIA 160   The Crafts of China   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the artisan crafts of China historically and
technically. The course explores how and why the crafts appeared,
their historical trajectory and demonstrates how the crafts improved
technically. Ceramics, Bronze Castings and Wood works will serve as
prototypes. Students will undertake independent researches.
Course equivalencies:  FNAR160/ASIA160   
Outcomes:
Students will identify how the crafts of woodwork, bronze casting and
ceramics evolved and how they are currently practiced in China; Students
will articulate an understanding of the function of craft in Chinese culture
as well compare and contrast it to the function craft in their own culture
ASIA 167   Religions in China   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a survey of various religions in China that may include,
not only Confucianism and Taoism, but also Buddhism, Christianity,
Islam, Judaism, Zoroastrianism, Manicheism and popular or "folk"
religion. The course will consider the function of these various religions
in the development of Chinese society and their signiﬁcance in Chinese
civilization from ancient mythology to contemporary practices and
developments. "
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO167/ASIA167/INTS167   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge of the beliefs, practices,
and institutions in varied contexts and historical periods in China, of
various religions, both indigenous and "foreign
ASIA 168   Sacred Texts of China   (3 Credit Hours)   
Through the study of primary sacred texts of China (in translation), this
class will provide a basic understanding of Chinese thought and its
historical development. Interconnections among the various periods and
different schools of Chinese philosophy such as Confucianism, Taoism,
Buddhism and Neo-Confucianism will be demonstrated and discussed
from ancient through the medieval and modern periods.
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO168/ASIA168/INTS168   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge of the major Chinese
sacred texts and teachings of various religious and philosophical
traditions, and how they developed and interacted historically
ASIA 169   Taoism   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students will study the history and main ideas and practices of Taoism,
meet the sages who wrote the Taoist texts, be introduced to the various
schools of Taoist philosophy, and get a feel for what it means to practice
Taoism today. The course will illustrate how religious Taoism established
a relationship with Confucian thought and practice as well as how at each
stage of its historical development, Taoism exerted a profound influence
on Chinese politics, economy, culture, art, natural sciences, and social life.
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO169/ASIA169/INTS169   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge of philosophical and
religious Taoist beliefs, practices, and institutions in varied contexts and
historical periods
ASIA 191   Traditional Chinese Philosophy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students will investigate Chinese ancient philosophy in a way to
let its own tendencies be sensed and appreciated. Topics include
Confucianism, Mencius, Sunzi, Taoism, Legalism, Yin-Yang School,
Tung Chung-shu, Chinese Buddhism and Neo-Confucianism. In addition,
students learn about the relations among different schools or different
thinkers in the same school. Comparisons between Chinese philosophies
and western ones are encouraged.
Course equivalencies:  X-PHIL191/ASIA191   

--- Page 516 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 547
ASIA 192   Chinese Ethics and Asian Values   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course offers an overview of the spirit of Chinese ethics, covering
sacred and secular as well as intellectual and practical elements.
Course equivalencies:  X-PHIL192/ASIA192/INTS192   
ASIA 193   Contemporary Chinese Philosophy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students will analyze the development of Chinese contemporary
thought in its different stages: rejection of the tradition and its recent
reevaluation.
Course equivalencies:  X-PHIL193/ASIA193/INTS193   
ASIA 252   Peoples of China   (3 Credit Hours)   
This class introduces China's cultural diversity and unity as a whole. It
provides a general overview of cultural mappings in China, and a detailed
study of signiﬁcant ethnic minorities.
Course equivalencies:  SOCL251/ASIA252/INTS251   
Outcomes:
Students will gain the ability to perceive cultural phenomena in a
comparative framework and understand cultural differences more deeply
ASIA 263   Political and Social Movements in China   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines historical and contemporary movements pursuing
political, economic and social reforms in China. It studies both state-
sponsored and voluntary movements.
Course equivalencies:  SOCL263/INTS263   
Outcomes:
Students will gain a deeper understanding of China's ongoing
transformation, and will learn how to develop their own scholarly analysis
of such social change
ASIA 266   Development and Social Change in Modern China   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course examines change and development in modern China from the
late Qing period to the present, focusing on the movement from a planned
economy to a market-based economy.
Course equivalencies:  SOCL266/ASIA266/INTS266WSGS297   
Outcomes:
Students will gain knowledge of China's economic development path,
and will apply gender and/or class-based analysis to patterns of social
change
ASIA 272   Environment of China   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides a systematic introduction to major environmental
issues in the context of recent social and economic development in China
Course equivalencies:  X-NTSC270/ASIA272/INTS270   
ASIA 292   Modern Chinese Fiction   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces selected ﬁctional works by some of the most
insightful writers of modern China. The course focuses on signiﬁcant
aspects of these works with an objective to enhance students'
fascination with and skill in the reading and analysis of modern Chinese
ﬁction. Knowledge of modern Chinese ﬁction will enable students to
understand central aspects of 20th century Chinese culture.
Course equivalencies:  X-LITR292/ASIA292/INTS290   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze literary texts of a particular historical
period and write critical essays on works read in the courseASIA 297   Topics in Asia   (3 Credit Hours)   
Special topics or new approaches of current interest to the instructor.
This course may be used to fulﬁll the Asian minor requirement for a 300-
level course in Asia-related topics. Students may repeat the course for
credit when the topic changes.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain familiarity with the topic; the ability to m ake
connections between secondary and primary sources; and the capacity
to think critically about the ways that historians have approached major
issues
ASIA 302   Discovering China Through Film   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will give an overview of major ﬁlms produced in mainland
China since 1949. Students will examine the genres of Chinese ﬁlm
better known in contemporary China and consider them a major source
of reflection upon, and critique of, contemporary Chinese society and
culture.
Course equivalencies:  CMUN301/ASIA/INTS/AIFMS302   
Outcomes:
All ﬁlms chosen for the course will help inform students' understanding of
modern China in terms of its material conditions and ideology
ASIA 314   Modern Chinese Literature in Chinese   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a survey of modern Chinese literature from 1918 to the
present. It requires the close reading of famous Chinese writers and
poets as well as some of the avant-garde writers. Students will have the
opportunity to explore their own ideas of the aesthetic characteristics
of the Chinese literature in the 20th century, as well as its historical
and social background and learn about one of the important aspects of
modern Chinese culture.
Course equivalencies:  X-CHIN341/ASIA314/INTS341A   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of principal, genres, themes and
forms of modern Chinese literature through analytical oral and written
arguments
Chinese (CHIN)
CHIN 101   Chinese I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This is an introductory course in Modern Standard Chinese (Mandarin)
for students with none or little prior experience in Chinese. This course
introduces the four basic communicative skills in Chinese: listening,
speaking, reading and writing, and emphasizes on conversation. They
will be able to understand and respond to greetings, as well as talk about
family members, time, hobbies and friends. They will learn nearly 200
characters.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Chinese Language & Culture   
Course equivalencies:  X-CHIN101/ASIAC01   
Outcomes:
Students will achieve active control of Chinese sound system and writing
system

--- Page 517 ---
548  Modern Languages and Literatures
CHIN 102   Chinese II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHIN 101   
CHIN 102 is a continuation of CHIN 101. Students will expand their
knowledge of Chinese characters, vocabulary and grammar, improve their
skills on listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills, and learn more
cultural knowledge. Aside from dialogues, they will also read a short dairy
and a letter. They will learn some 200 new characters.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Chinese Language & Culture   
Course equivalencies:  X-CHIN102/ASIAC02   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to make appointments, talk about Chinese learning
experience, school life, shopping, weather and transportation
CHIN 103   Chinese III   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHIN 102   
CHIN 103 builds on the knowledge and skills gained in CHIN 101-
CHIN 102. This course develops conversational skills by using
fundamental grammatical patterns and vocabulary in functional contexts.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Chinese Language & Culture   
Course equivalencies:  X-CHIN103/ASIAC03   
Outcomes:
Students will learn dialogues used in the contexts of dinning out,
studying in library, asking directions, attending birthday party, seeing a
doctor, and dating
CHIN 104   Chinese IV   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHIN 103   
CHIN 104 is the continuation of CHIN 103. This course further extends
students' knowledge of Chinese vocabulary and grammar, and improves
their skills in listening, speaking, reading, and writing.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Chinese Language & Culture   
Course equivalencies:  X-CHIN104/ASIAC04   
Outcomes:
Students will learn expressions in the contexts of renting an apartment,
mailing a letter and traveling in both mainland China and Taiwan, talking
about hometown and sports, and checking in at the airport
CHIN 190   Business Chinese I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHIN 101   
Business Chinese I is primarily intended for students who are interested
in pursuing a career that may involve working in China or doing business
with Chinese corporate partners. Examples of topics include meeting with
a manager, being introduced to colleagues, and attending social events.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Chinese Language & Culture   
Outcomes:
1) An expanded vocabulary (500-600 characters in total); 2) deeper
knowledge of Chinese grammar; and 3) a multi-faceted introduction to
Chinese business cultureCHIN 191   Business Chinese II   (3 Credit Hours)   
As a follow-on course to Business Chinese I (CHIN 190), this course
is primarily intended for students who are interested in pursuing a
career that may involve working in China or doing business with Chinese
corporate partners. In CHIN 191, all the topics are practical for a "real
world" business environment, for instance, making an appointment,
visiting a company, introducing production facilities and products, dining
etiquette, and socializing with colleagues after work.
Outcomes:
Upon completion of Business Chinese II, the student should have 1) an
expanded vocabulary frequently encountered in a business environment,
2) deeper knowledge of Chinese syntax (sentence patterns and habitual
usages), morphology (character construction and combinations),
and other aspects of grammar (eg, verb tense markers, positioning of
prepositional phrases and adverbials), and 3) a multifaceted introduction
to Chinese business culture
CHIN 250   Composition and Conversation   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHIN 104   
This course focuses on different aspects of Chinese life and society,
enhancing students' ability to understand Chinese culture and Chinese
ways of socializing, thinking, lifestyle, etc.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Chinese Language & Culture   
Outcomes:
Students will increase their vocabulary and improve their ability to
compose formal speech and carry on discussions
CHIN 251   Advanced Composition & Conversation   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CHIN 250   
This course focuses contemporary aspects of Chinese life and society.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Chinese Language & Culture   
Outcomes:
Students will increase their vocabulary and improve their ability to
compose formal speech and carry on discussions
CHIN 252   Advanced Composition and Conversation II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Students must have completed CHIN 251 or equivalent   
In this course students will further expand their vocabulary, acquire
more-advanced grammatical structures and usage patterns, learn to
communicate in Chinese both in the classroom and in social settings and
deepen their understanding of Chinese culture.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Chinese Language & Culture   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to further enhance their listening, reading, speaking
and writing skills as well as appreciate the cultural nuances of the
Chinese language
CHIN 253   Advanced Composition and Conversation III   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Students must have completed CHIN 252 or equivalent   
In this course students will further expand their vocabulary, acquire
more-advanced grammatical structures and usage patterns, learn to
communicate in Chinese both in the classroom and in social settings and
deepen their understanding of Chinese culture.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Chinese Language & Culture   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to further enhance their listening, reading, speaking
and writing skills as well as appreciate the cultural nuances of the
Chinese language
CHIN 260   Intensive Advanced Chinese I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is for those who have taken three year of Chinese at the
college level. The student will gain advanced skills in speaking, reading,
and writing Chinese and explore a broad range of topics related to
Chinese culture.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Chinese Language & Culture   

--- Page 518 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 549
CHIN 261   Intensive Advanced Chinese II   (3 Credit Hours)   
This is a follow-on course to CHIN 260. The student will continue to gain
advanced skills in speaking, reading, and writing Chinese and explore a
broad range of topics related to Chinese culture.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Chinese Language & Culture   
CHIN 314   Modern Chinese Literature in Chinese   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a survey of modern Chinese literature from 1918 to the
present. It requires the close reading of famous Chinese writers and
poets as well as some of the avant-garde writers. Students will have the
opportunity to explore their own ideas of the aesthetic characteristics
of the Chinese literature in the 20th century, as well as its historical
and social background and learn about one of the important aspects of
modern Chinese culture.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of principal, genres, themes and
forms of modern Chinese literature through analytical oral and written
arguments
CHIN 340   Modern Chinese Fiction   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces Chinese literature from historical and modern
periods. Readings will be in Chinese and may include novels, short
stories, poems, and folklore.
CHIN 341   Modern Chinese Literature in Chinese   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a survey of modern Chinese literature from 1918 to the
present. It requires the close reading of famous Chinese writers and
poets as well as some of the avant-garde writers. Students will have the
opportunity to explore their own ideas of the aesthetic characteristics
of the Chinese literature in the 20th century, as well as its historical
and social background and learn about one of the important aspects of
modern Chinese culture.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Chinese Language & Culture, Global
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-CHIN341/ASIA314/INTS341A   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of principal, genres, themes and
forms of modern Chinese literature through analytical oral and written
arguments
CHIN 360   Advanced Conversational Chinese I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on advanced conversational skills for those who
have taken a minimum of three years of Chinese.
CHIN 361   Advanced Conversational Chinese II   (4 Credit Hours)   
This is a follow-on course to CHIN 360 for those wishing to gai n more
advanced conversational skills in Chinese.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Chinese Language & Culture   
CHIN 395   Tutorial   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
This independent study course provides an opportunity to explore a topic
of interest to the student related to Chinese language and culture under
the guidance of a faculty member.French (FREN)
FREN 101   Elementary French I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  No previous knowledge of French is expected; Please
go to http://www.luc.edu/modernlang/exam.shtml for placement test
instructions, especially if you took any French courses in high school or
college   
Taught in French. Instructs basic communicative French, the people
and cultures where it is spoken, using formal and informal registers, and
speaking in present and future time. Students will listen and respond,
read and write, ask and answer simple questions in basic functional
French. Content: personal topics, everyday living.
Outcomes:
Student will successfully interpret and express needs pertaining to home,
work, college, leisure, and dining; Achievement level desired: Novice
Low, American Council on the Teaching of Foreign Languages (ACTFL*)
standards
FREN 102   Elementary French II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FREN 101 or one semester college French with C- or better,
or placement test score; Please go to Modern Languages home page for
placement test instructions; You must take the placement test if you took
any French courses in high school   
Taught in French. Continuation of basic French inter-communication
skills both producing French (speaking and writing), and interpreting
French (listening and reading.) The aim is to comprehend and contribute
to discussions about families, housing, sports, travel, and traditions in
French.
Outcomes:
Students will comprehend and speak in present, future, and past
narrative; get and give simple direction; share personal information;
Achievement level desired: ACTFL* Novice Low to Mid
FREN 103   Intermediate French I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FREN 102, or equivalent French at another college, with C-
or better, or placement test score; Exam required for placement on the
basis of high-school work: please go to Modern Languages home page
for placement test instructions   
Taught in French. Course continues to work on focus on pronunciation,
grammar. and developing conversational and writing fluency. Students
will read excerpts of French and francophone media or literature. Topics
include the environment and the many francophone cultures and tasks
include narrating in more complex past, future and hypothetical contexts.
Outcomes:
Students become more fluent and precise in expressing opinions,
asking and answering more probing and data-driven questions, on topic;
Achievement level desired ACTFL* Novice Mid to High

--- Page 519 ---
550  Modern Languages and Literatures
FREN 104   Intermediate French II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FREN 103, or equivalent French at another college, with C-
or better, or placement test score; Placement test on the basis of high-
school work required: please go to Modern languages home page for
placement test instructions   
Taught in French. Students will comprehend and produce French in more
complex contexts (literary and cultural) while reviewing intermediate
grammar structures to improve fluency and accuracy. Students present
and debate cultural, historical or current events topics; practice
expressing emotion, opinion, judgment, necessity, hypotheticals, and
regret.
Outcomes:
Students will skillfully interpret and write about literature excerpts or
French and francophone media; They will summarize, narrate, and offer
opinions; Achievement level desired ACTFL* Novice High to Intermediate
Low
FREN 250   French Composition and Conversation I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FREN 104, or college transfer equivalent, with C- or better,
or placement test score; Placement test based on high-school work is
required: please go to Modern Languages home page for placement test
instructions   
Taught entirely in French. Students develop advanced interpretive and
presentation skills, detecting sequencing, time frames and chronology in
texts, whether heard or viewed. Format is discussion, presentation, role
plays, several compositions written in a process.
Outcomes:
Students will share points of view verbally and in writing on
contemporary topics discovered in current media of French and
francophone cultures; Achieved level desired ACTFL* Intermediate Low to
Mid
FREN 251   French Composition and Conversation II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FREN 104, or college transfer equivalent, with C- or better
or placement test score; Placement test based on high-school work is
required: please go to Modern Languages home page for placement test
instructions   
Taught entirely in French. Via classic, French New Wave, francophone
to contemporary French-speaking ﬁlm students discover and compare
cultural differences, discuss global or local concerns, spanning the
disciplines. Writing in a process leads to more sophisticated writing
skills.
Outcomes:
Students become ever-precise and effective in communicating facts,
opinions, and concerns about French-speaking communities in
relationship to their own; Achieved level desired ACTFL* Intermediate Low
to Mid
FREN 270   Main Currents of French Literature & Culture I   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Pass FREN 250 and/or FREN 251 with C- or better or AP
credit for both 250 and 251, or with instructor's consent   
Survey of representative works of French literature from the Middle
Ages, the Renaissance, and the 17th and 18th centuries, examining the
formation of French cultural identity up through the Enlightenment and
the French Revolution.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will identify literary and cultural trends and ruptures across
these centuries, and explain them in some detail; Achievement level
desired: ACTFL* Intermediate Mid to HighFREN 271   Main Currents of French Literature & Culture II   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Pass FREN 250 and/or FREN 251 with C or better, acquire
AP credit, or instructor's consent   
Survey of representative works of French literature in all genres, from
Romanticism through narrative realism and the modernist innovations of
Surrealism and existentialism in the 20th century.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will learn to identify these literary and cultural movements, and
explain in some detail their importance regarding French cultural identity;
Achievement level desired: ACTFL* Intermediate Mid to High
FREN 300   Tutorial for Credit   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FREN 270 and 271, with C or better, and instructor's
consent; If either 270 or 271 have been completed, the other may be
taken simultaneously with 3##   
Eligible students majoring in French may elect tutorial for credit; topic
chosen in consultation with faculty member.
Outcomes:
Student may choose their own topic to explore
FREN 301   Stylistics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FREN 270 and 271, with C or better, and instructor's
consent; If either 270 or 271 have been completed, the other may be
taken simultaneously with 3##   
This is advanced work in writing expository prose is based on intensive
study of advanced grammar and syntax with attention to peculiar
features of the French idiom. Students examine phonology and phonetics
with attention to French speech patterns and rhythms whilst enhancing
vocabulary development through the varieties of lexical references and
other dictionaries.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate a sophisticated, comprehensive
command of the complexities of written and spoken French; Achievement
level desired: ACTFL* Advanced Low
FREN 302   French for Professions   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FREN 270 and 271, with C or better, and instructor's
consent; If either 270 or 271 have been completed, the other may be
taken simultaneously with 3##   
Surviving in global careers--commerce, law, diplomacy, communications,
health--requires knowledge of business terminology and organism
structures. Students study current events, and present on francophone
companies, institutions, and NGO's. Résumés are perfected in French,
interview questions are drilled. The French government DAF (Diplôme du
français des affaires) exam is optional.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to navigate conﬁdently in French business and
diplomatic sectors; They will be prepared to interview in French; ACTFL*
achievement level desired: Intermediate High to Advanced Low

--- Page 520 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 551
FREN 308   Literary Criticism and Theory   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of French major course requirements and
instructor's consent   
Capstone for all French Majors, taken with other Modern Languages
& Literatures language majors. Students will study major schools and
themes in literary theory, both historical and contemporary. Rhetorical,
philosophical, historical, and cultural approaches to literature will be
studied in intimate conjunction with speciﬁc literary texts drawn from
several linguistic and cultural traditions.
Course equivalencies:  X-FREN/GERM/ITAL/SPAN308   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate critical knowledge and
understanding of major theoretical issues in the study of literature;
ACTFL* achievement level desired: Advanced Low to Mid
FREN 309   Francophone Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FREN 271 with C or better, and instructor's consent   
Students explore salient characteristics and themes of literature of
various genres written in French from Northern and Sub-Saharan Africa,
the Caribbean, and Québec. Topics include «la négritude», other reactions
to colonialism, `borrowed language', ideas and realities of liberation, post-
colonialism, the francophone woman, literature as political agent, and
satire.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Global
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-FREN309/BWS 309/INTS309   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate critical knowledge of historical
and political implications of these movements in contemporary global
society; ACTFL* achievement level desired: Intermediate Mid to Advanced
Low
FREN 311   French Modernity   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FREN 271 with C or better, and instructor's consent   
Students study major French authors of the twentieth and twenty-ﬁrst
centuries (Proust, Malraux, Sartre, Camus, and others), with attention
to the historical context of their works against the background of two
world wars and world-wide revolutionary movements, along with their
interaction with other artistic media.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate critical knowledge of majo r literary
works studied, and appreciate the major issues and their cultural
signiﬁcance; ACTFL* achievement level desired: Intermediate Mid to
Advanced Low
FREN 314   Survey of Medieval Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FREN 270 with a grade of C or better and permission of the
instructor   
This course will explore the literature and culture of the French Middle
Ages. Students will develop familiarity with literary genres and themes
including the chansons de geste, romances, and fabliaux, courtly love,
the international character of medieval French literature, voices and
representation of women, and the role of the Church.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Medieval Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-FREN314/MSTU372   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate critical knowledge of majo r literary
works studied, and appreciate the major issues and their cultural
signiﬁcance; ACTFL* achievement level desired: Intermediate Mid to
Advanced LowFREN 316   Renaissance France   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FREN 270 with C or better, and instructor's consent   
Students study major authors of the French Renaissance in their
historical and cultural contexts. Authors to be read will include Marot,
Labé, Scève, Rabelais, Du Bellay, Ronsard, and Montaigne, in conjunction
with study of Renaissance culture, the Reformation, the Wars of Religion,
and the other arts.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate critical knowledge of majo r literary
works studied, and appreciate the major issues and their cultural
signiﬁcance; ACTFL* achievement level desired: Intermediate Mid to
Advanced Low
FREN 317   Le Grand Siècle   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FREN 270 with C or better, and instructor's consent   
Students study major authors of the "long" 17th century in historical and
cultural contexts: Corneille, Cyrano, Descartes, Pascal, Mme de Lafayette,
Molière, Racine, Mme de Sévigné, the moralistes, among others. Focus
is on complex historical contexts of the period: baby kings, the Fronde,
religious conflict, the court and wars of Louis XIV.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate critical knowledge of majo r literary
works studied, and appreciate the major issues and their cultural
signiﬁcance; ACTFL* achievement level desired: Intermediate Mid to
Advanced Low
FREN 318   Enlightenment France   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FREN 270 with C or better, and instructor's consent   
Students study major French authors of the European Enlightenment.
Authors to be read will include Montesquieu, Voltaire, Rousseau, and
Diderot, among others, in the context of the development of (and
resistance to) the Enlightenment and the French Revolution.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate critical knowledge of majo r literary
works studied, and appreciate the major issues and their cultural
signiﬁcance; ACTFL* achievement level desired: Intermediate Mid to
Advanced Low
FREN 319   Romantic Century   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FREN 271 with C or better, and instructor's consent   
Students study the emergence of French Romanticism in the wake of
Revolutionary tumult (Lamartine, Vigny, and Hugo), and of the deeper and
darker reaction to bourgeois culture (Baudelaire, Flaubert, Rimbaud, and
others), marking relations with painting, sculpture, and music.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Appreciation of works from modern sensibilities are formulated, plus an
understanding of major issues and questions in these works and their
culture; ACTFL* achievement level desired: Intermediate Mid-Advanced
Low

--- Page 521 ---
552  Modern Languages and Literatures
FREN 320   Survey of Literature of the Theatre   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  French 270 and 271, with C or better, and instructor's
consent; If either 270 or 271 have been completed, the other may be
taken simultaneously with 3##   
Students study theater in French from its medieval beginnings to the
present. Authors/works to be read may include medieval farce, Turnèbe,
Corneille, Molière, Racine, Diderot, Hugo, Rostand, Ionesco, Girardoux,
Beckett, and Césaire. Works will be studied in historical, cultural, critical,
and performing contexts.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate critical knowledge of major works of French
theater, and appreciate the major issues involved and their cultural
signiﬁcance; ACTFL* achievement level: Intermediate Mid to Advanced
Low
FREN 330   Survey-Poetry Thry & Practice   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FREN 270 and 271, with C or better, and instructor's
consent; If either 270 or 271 have been completed, the other may be
taken simultaneously with 3##   
Theory and Practice. Study of French narrative, dramatic, and lyric poetry,
with emphasis on the lyric.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate detailed critical knowledge and
comprehension of major literary works of the genre under study, as well
as a sophisticated critical appreciation of the major issues and questions
in these works and their culture
FREN 340   Survey of Prose: Fictional & Non-Fictional   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FREN 270 and/or FREN 271 with C or better, and
instructor's consent   
Students conduct detailed analysis of the outstanding stylistic  features
of France's great prose writers from the XVIth century to the present day.
Works may include writings by Rabelais, Montaigne, Pascal, Voltaire,
Flaubert, Balzac, Michelet, Proust, Camus, Malraux and Lévi-Strauss,
among others.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Appreciation of the rich variety of expressive skills and moral penetration
among France's great prose writers; ACTFL* achievement level desired:
Intermediate Mid to Advanced Low
FREN 369   Introduction to French for Reading Knowledge   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course will prepare students for reading and conducting research in
French. Fundamentals of grammar, syntax, and vocabulary essential to
reading competence will be covered, using materials drawn from a wide
range of ﬁelds. Completion of this course with a passing grade fulﬁlls
the Graduate School language competency requirement. This course is
restricted to graduate students.
Course equivalencies:  FREN369 / FREN109   FREN 390   French & Francophone Cultures & Civilizations   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FREN 271 with C or better, and instructor's consent   
This multidisciplinary study of French and Francophone cultures as
they have developed over the centuries will focus on the historical,
institutional, religious, and artistic manifestations that have contributed
to the formation of these identities. Special attention will be  given to their
revolutionary role in politics, painting, intellectual life, and cinema.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Global
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-FREN390/INTS390   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to identify and discuss the revolutionary roles
these cultures have had in politics, painting, intellectual life, and cinema;
ACTFL* achievement level desired: Intermediate Mid to Advanced Low
FREN 395   Internship   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of at least one 300-level French course and
instructor's consent   
Eligible students who have secured an internship related to the ﬁeld of
study may complete an internship for credit, with the approval of a faculty
member. Students complete reflective assignments and a ﬁnal project in
French, in consultation with the faculty member.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students gain professional experience while working with the French
language and Francophone cultures and applying skills they have learned
in the classroom
FREN 399   French Honors Tutorial   (3 Credit Hours)   
Eligible students majoring in French and with departmental honors may
elect tutorial for credit; topic chosen in consultation with faculty member.
Instructor's consent, restricted to students in French BA.
Course equivalencies:  FREN399H / FREN399   
Outcomes:
Students will explore a topic of their choice guided by a faculty member,
and will conduct a research project that will result in a ﬁnal paper
German (GERM)
GERM 101   Elementary German I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to German, designed for students with no
previous experience. Students develop communicative language skills
and acquire a fundamental knowledge of German-speaking cultures.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand simple sentences and short
narratives, respond to basic inquiries about themselves and others,
formulate basic questions, comprehend basic written texts, and write
simple German sentences
GERM 102   Elementary German II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  GERM 101   
Students will further develop communicative language skills and
knowledge of German-speaking cultures, and will ﬁnish learning all the
basic grammatical structures of the language.
Outcomes:
Students will have learned to express themselves through a wider range
of vocabulary and grammatical structures; They will be able to express
appropriate reactions to ordinary situations, read more complex texts,
and write sentences in short but cohesive paragraphs

--- Page 522 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 553
GERM 103   Intermediate German I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  GERM 102 Students will review and develop their
understanding of German grammar and vocabulary   
Students will read and discuss a variety of short readings, including short
stories and poetry.
Outcomes:
Students will have gained a wider range of oral expression, both lexical
and grammatical; They will be able to express more complex reactions,
read more complex narrative and literary texts, and write sentences in
longer paragraphs
GERM 104   Intermediate German II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  GERM 103 This course focuses on review and practice of
more complex grammatical elements   
Students will read texts of greater length and complexity, expand their
vocabulary, and increase their ability to communicate, both orally and in
writing.
Outcomes:
Students will have gained a wider range of oral expression, both lexical
and grammatical; They will be able to express more complex reactions,
read more complex narrative and literary texts, and write sentences in
cohesive paragraphs and short essays
GERM 250   Composition & Conversation I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  GERM 104   
This is a briskly paced class in which students engage in learning to
express themselves effectively, both orally and in writing, in German. All
work is carried out in German.
Interdisciplinary Option:  German Studies   
Outcomes:
Students gain conﬁdence in their ability to speak, read and write modern
German, and will gain a wider range of oral expression, both lexical and
grammatical
GERM 251   Composition & Conversation II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  GERM 250   
Students will learn to express themselves with increasing sophistication
in both oral and written German. Course materials are challenging and
may include a full length literary text.
Interdisciplinary Option:  German Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain further conﬁdence in their ability to speak, read and
write modern German, and will have gain a wider range of oral expression,
both lexical and grammatical
GERM 270   Modern German Literature and Culture I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  GERM 103 or equivalent   
Representative works in literature, philosophy, and ﬁne arts, with
sociopolitical backgrounds, 1830-1900.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand revolutionary post-romanticism,
realism, and naturalism in German literature and culture
GERM 271   Modern German Literature and Culture II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  GERM 271   
Representative works in literature, philosophy, and ﬁne arts, with
sociological backgrounds, 1900-present.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand neoromanticism, expressionism,
literature and fascism, socialist realism, and postwar culture in West and
East GermanyGERM 300   Tutorial for Credit   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Permission of chairperson   
Eligible students minoring in German may elect tutorial for credit.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to focus on a speciﬁc aspect of German li terature or
culture
GERM 320   German-American History: Focus on Chicago   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This engaged-learning course traces the history of German-speaking
immigrants in the United States from its very beginnings in 1608, through
the 19th century heyday of German immigration, and to the present day.
Chicago will function as a case study. Students will interact with the
DANK Haus and the German community in Chicago.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will learn about the historical chronology of German-speaking
immigration to the United States, assimilation, and German-American
cultural contributions to the US, with a focus on Chicago; Students will
interact with the DANK Haus and the German community in Chicago
GERM 369   German Reading Knowledge   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides graduate students in the humanities, arts and social
sciences with the fundamentals of German grammar for the purposes of
reading and translating academic German. Students will work through
German grammar explanations, vocabulary, strategies for negotiating
meaning, and translation exercises.
Course equivalencies:  GERM369 / GERM109   
GERM 370   German Cinema   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course provides an overview of German ﬁlm from its beginnings until
the present time. Movies will be screened and discussed chronologically
from the various eras of German ﬁlm: Silent Movies, Weimar Sound
Movies, Film in the Third Reich, Post-War Films, New German Cinema and
Movies of Uniﬁed Germany. Taught in English.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Film & Digital Media Studies,
German Studies, Global Studies, International Film & Media Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-GERM370/ICVM370/IFMS370   
Hebrew (HEBR)
HEBR 101   Modern Hebrew I   (3 Credit Hours)   
An introduction to the fundamentals of modern Hebrew, together with
study of the distinctive culture of the Jewish state of Israel.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand basic Hebrew sentences and to give
basic information about themselves in Hebrew, and will demonstrate
knowledge of the culture of modern Israel
HEBR 102   Modern Hebrew II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  HEBR 101   
A continued introduction to the fundamentals of modern Hebrew,
together with study of distinctive culture of the Jewish state of Israel.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand basic Hebrew sentences and to give
basic information about themselves in Hebrew, and will demonstrate
knowledge of the culture modern Israel
HEBR 103   Modern Hebrew III   (3 Credit Hours)   
Taught in Hebrew. Course focuses on pronunciation, grammar, and
developing conversational and writing fluency.

--- Page 523 ---
554  Modern Languages and Literatures
HEBR 104   Modern Hebrew IV   (3 Credit Hours)   
Taught in Hebrew. Students will comprehend and produce Hebrew
in more complex contexts (literary and cultural) while reviewing
intermediate grammar structures to improve fluency and accuracy.
Students present and debate cultural, historical or current events topics;
practice expressing emotion, opinion, judgment, necessity, hypotheticals,
and regret.
Italian (ITAL)
ITAL 101   Italian I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides an introduction to the basic grammatical elements
of Italian, promoting the development of listening comprehension,
speaking, reading and writing skills while examining the geography and
culture of Italy.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and write basic Italian sentences and
to produce orally and in writing short sentences providing basic personal
information about themselves, their activities and plans in Italian
ITAL 102   Italian II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ITAL 101   
This course continues the introduction to the basic grammatical
elements of Italian, promoting the further development of listening
comprehension, speaking, reading and writing skills while examining the
geography and culture of Italy.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and write basic Italian sentences and
to produce orally and in writing short sentences providing basic personal
information about themselves, their activities and plans in Italian
ITAL 103   Italian III   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ITAL 102   
This course examines more complex grammatical elements of Italian,
and promotes the development of intermediate listening comprehension,
speaking, reading and writing skills.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and write more complex Italian
sentences and paragraphs, and to produce orally and in writing
paragraphs and longer pieces providing accounts of their present past
and future activities, and oral and written reactions to Italian cultural
products
ITAL 104   Italian IV   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ITAL 103   
This course is a comprehensive review of the basic grammatical
elements of Italian, while continuing to promote all language skills with
particular emphasis on reading and writing proﬁciency in areas of cultural
and societal investigation.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and write increasingly complex Italian
sentences and paragraphs and to produce orally and in writing utterances
and texts about Italy, its cultural distinctness and its differences from the
United StatesITAL 250   Composition & Conversation I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ITAL 104   
This advanced conversation and composition course emphasizes
the development of advanced Italian speaking and writing skills and
examines advanced grammar and vocabulary in relation to advanced skill
development.
Outcomes:
Students will further develop their Italian language skill acquired in
previous courses and through experience and will strive for functional
conversational fluency and the ability to write with clarity, precision and
control of grammatical elements
ITAL 251   Composition & Conversation II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ITAL 104   
This advanced conversation and composition course can either be
taken as a continuation of ITAL 250 or independently. It also emphasizes
the development of advanced Italian speaking and writing skills and
examines advanced grammar and vocabulary in relation to advanced skill
development.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Italian Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will further develop their Italian language skill acquired in
previous courses and through experience and will strive for functional
conversational fluency and the ability to write with clarity, precision and
control of grammatical elements
ITAL 270   Main Currents of Italian Literature I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course, taught in Italian, is an introduction to Italian literary texts
of the Middle Ages and early Renaissance in relation to the cultural and
social and political history of Italy during its most noteworthy period of
development.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Italian Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of how medieval and Renaissance
Italian literary text reflect in a profound way Italy's cultural, artistic and
political history in a systematic manner
ITAL 271   Main Currents of Italian Literature II   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course, taught in Italian, is an introduction to Italian literary texts and
ﬁlms in relation to the cultural and political history of Italy from 1700 to
the present.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies, Italian Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of how Italian literary texts and ﬁlm
reflect in a profound way Italy's social, cultural, economic and political
history in a systematic manner
ITAL 280   Masterpieces of Italian Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ITAL 250 and ITAL 251, with C or better; If either 250 or 251
have been completed, the other may be taken simultaneously with this
course   
This course is dedicated to the study of selected literary masterpieces
written in Italian. Canonical and non-canonical works may be included,
alongside essays that reflect on the deﬁnition and the history of Italian
literature and its canon.
Outcomes:
By the end of the course, students will be able to describe, discuss,
and present works of literature in expository writing; Students will
demonstrate adequate reading and writing skills at level through oral
presentations and term papers; Achievement level desired: ACTFL*
Intermediate High to Advanced Low

--- Page 524 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 555
ITAL 282   Studies in a Theme   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ITAL 250 and ITAL 251, with C or better; If either 250 or 251
have been completed, the other may be taken simultaneously with this
course   
This course explores a theme chosen by the instructor on any social,
artistic, and intellectual currents in the cultural history of Italy. The
course may include cultural expressions such as the visual arts, music,
theatre, performance, and ﬁlm. It may consider different communication
platforms such as - but not limited to - social media and pop c ulture. It
may examine different genres and periods.
Outcomes:
By the end of the course, students will be able to identify the historical
and social roots of Italian cultural phenomena and differentiate traditions
and cultural perspectives in expository writing; Students will demonstrate
adequate reading and writing skills at level through oral presentations
and term papers; Achievement level desired: ACTFL* Intermediate High to
Advanced Low
ITAL 283   Studies in Italian Authors   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ITAL 250 and ITAL 251, with C or better; If either 250 or 251
have been completed, the other may be taken simultaneously with this
course   
This course is dedicated to the study of selected Italian authors.
Canonical and non-canonical writers may be included, alongside authors
of the Italian diaspora.
Course equivalencies:  X-ITAL283/MSTU376   
Outcomes:
By the end of the course, students will be able to describe, discuss, and
present the works of Italian authors in expository writing; Students will
demonstrate adequate reading and writing skills at level through oral
presentations and term papers; Achievement level desired: ACTFL*
Intermediate High to Advanced Low
ITAL 284   Studies in Italian Film   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ITAL 250 and ITAL 251, with C or better; If either 250 or 251
have been completed, the other may be taken simultaneously with this
course   
This course will focus on one or more aspects of Italian ﬁlms and may
concentrate on narrative structure, genre, authorship, cinematography,
casting, setting, and so on. The course may include a diverse selection of
Italian high-brow and popular ﬁlms, alongside readings that highlight their
societal and cultural roots.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Outcomes:
By the end of the course, students will be able to describe, discuss, and
present on various aspects of Italian cinema and the work of Italian
ﬁlmmakers; Students will demonstrate adequate reading and writing
skills at level through oral presentations and term papers; Achievement
level desired: ACTFL* Intermediate High to Advanced LowITAL 290   The Italians   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ITAL 250 and ITAL 251, with C or better; If either 250 or 251
have been completed, the other may be taken simultaneously with this
course   
This course aims at the acquisition of the Italian language for
professional purposes in conducting business in Italy or with Italian
companies. It will provide students with professional opportunities in an
international and global environment.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Italian American Studies   
Outcomes:
By the end of the course, students will be familiar with business etiquette
and the organization of Italian companies and corporations; Students
will demonstrate use of appropriate written professional language in
business letters and CV writing, and in oral communication; Ach ievement
level desired: ACTFL* Intermediate High to Advanced Low
ITAL 300   Tutorial for Credit   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
Students will cover a specially designed program of study through regular
meeting with Italian faculty.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Italian Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of literature and culture and will
improve their language skills
ITAL 301   Stylistics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ITAL 270 and ITAL 271, with C or better; If either 270 or 271
have been completed, the other may be taken simultaneously with this
course   
This course helps students develop writing skills in expository prose.
Based on intensive study of advanced grammar and syntax, the course
enhances students' vocabulary through prose, poetry, and essay
readings.
Outcomes:
By the end of the course, students will demonstrate a ﬁrm and
comprehensive command of the complexities of written and spoken
Italian in expository writing and oral presentations; Achievement level
desired: ACTFL* Advanced Low
ITAL 305   Advanced Grammar   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course, taught in Italian, is a study of advanced Italian composition
and rhetoric, with advanced study of Italian grammar.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Italian Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will further develop their Italian language skills acquired in
previous courses and through experience and will strive to achieve as
high a proﬁciency level as personally possible in their advanced Italian
reading and writing ability
ITAL 308   Literary Criticism   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ITAL 270 and ITAL 271, with C or better; If either 270 or 271
have been completed, the other may be taken simultaneously with this
course   
Students will study major schools and themes in literary theory, both
historical and contemporary. Rhetorical, philosophical, and cultural
approaches to literature will be studied in conjunction with speciﬁc
literary texts drawn from several linguistic and cultural traditions.
Course equivalencies:  X-FREN/GERM/ITAL/SPAN308   
Outcomes:
By the end of the course, students will be able to debate, cont extualize,
and interpret major critical issues in the study and theory of literature
in expository writing and oral presentations; ACTFL* achievement level
desired: Advanced Low to Mid

--- Page 525 ---
556  Modern Languages and Literatures
ITAL 312   Dante-The Divine Comedy   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course, taught in Italian, will examine the Vita Nuova and Divine
Comedy of Dante Alighieri and study Dante's poetic world in the context
of Medieval culture.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies, Italian
Studies, Medieval Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ITAL312/CATH312/MSTU364   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of Dante's Italian and
understanding of the historical, cultural, critical and technic al vocabulary
needed to analyze the Divine Comedy
ITAL 314   Survey 13th & 14th Century Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course, taught in Italian, will examine the influential li terary works
of Francis Petrarch and Giovanni Boccaccio with emphasis on their
respective masterpieces: the Canzoniere and the Decameron.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, Medieval Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ITAL314/MSTU368   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of Petrarch's poetry and
Boccaccio's difﬁcult prose and their techniques of composition
ITAL 315   Italian Renaissance Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course, taught in Italian, will examine the influential li terary works of
Poliziano, Lorenzo dei Medici, Machiavelli and Castiglione.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Italian Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of Renaissance literature in a
variety of genres
ITAL 316   Renaissance Chivalric Poems   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course, taught in Italian, will examine the Chivalric Romance Epics of
Boiardo, Ariosto and Tasso.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of Renaissance literature 's
greatest works
ITAL 317   Survey Early 19th Century Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will examine the influential literary works of Ugo Foscolo,
Giacomo Leopardi, Alessandro Manzoni and other authors in a crucial
period in the formation of modern Italian cultural identity.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of Foscolo and Leopardi poetry and
Manzoni's prose and their literary style
ITAL 318   Survey Late 19th Cent Lit   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will examine the influential literary works of Giovanni Verga
and the school of Verismo and the "romanzi di formazione" of Edmondo
De' Amicis, Carlo Collodi, and other signiﬁcant Italian authors.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Italian Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of Verga and verismo and of the
works of other major late-19th century authors
ITAL 319   Survey of 20th Century Prose   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course, taught in Italian, will examine representative Italian novels
of the 20th century by authors such as Svevo, Silone, Calvino, Bassani, P .
Levi, and Ginzburg.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies, Italian Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of Italian novelists and their prose
and their literary style; Students will improve their Italian reading and
writing skillsITAL 320   Survey of 20th Century Poetry   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will examine the major Italian poets of the twentie th century
with emphasis on Ungaretti, Quasimodo, Montale, Pasolini, Zanzotto and
Luzi. Students will demonstrate the ability to interpret Italian poetry and
will write their own Italian poetry.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of Italian poetry and major 20th
century poets
ITAL 331   Survey of Italian Theater   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will examine representative works of Italian theater from the
Renaissance to the present. Featured authors will include Machiavelli,
Goldoni, Pirandello and Dario Fo.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Italian Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of Italian theater in its historical
development; Students will demonstrate the ability to analyze Italian
plays and act out famous scenes
ITAL 340   Italian Short Story   (3 Credit Hours)   
This survey course will examine representative works of the Italian short
story tradition from the 13th century Novellino to the present.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Italian Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of Italian short story in its
historical development; Students will demonstrate the ability to analyze
Italian short stories and will create their own
ITAL 390   Culture & Civilization   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course taught in Italian studies the Italy that has emerged since
the World War II. examines contemporary Italian culture and society and
the problems Italy faces through study of a variety written texts (literary,
historical, journalistic) and media.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies, Italian American
Studies, Italian Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ITAL390/INTS394   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of Italian society as it has been
transformed over the past 60 years and will be able to under the role
of representative political and cultural ﬁgures and forces in promoting
change
ITAL 395   Internship   (3 Credit Hours)   
The internship will enable students to gain practical experience in
working in Italian government institutions in Chicago (such as the Italian
Cultural Institute) or working in businesses or education.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Italian Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will work 4-8 per week and reflect on their experience in
conversations with supervising professor and other interns

--- Page 526 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 557
ITAL 397   Topics in Italian Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ITAL 270 and ITAL 271, with C or better; If either 270 or 271
have been completed, the other may be taken simultaneously with this
course   
This course explores a topic chosen by the instructor on any genre,
tradition, and form in the literary history of Italy. The course may include
literary expressions such as poetry, the short story, the novel, theatre,
travel literature, etc., and may also consider different genres and periods.
Outcomes:
By the end of the course, students will be able to debate, cont extualize,
and interpret major critical issues in the study of Italian literature in
expository writing and oral presentations; Achievement level desired:
ACTFL* Advanced Low to Advanced Medium
ITAL 399   Italian Honors Tutorial   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Instructor's consent, restricted to students in Italian BA   
Eligible students majoring in Italian and with departmental honors may
elect tutorial for credit; topic chosen in consultation with faculty member.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Italian Studies   
Course equivalencies:  ITAL399H / ITAL399   
Outcomes:
Students will explore a topic of their choice guided by a faculty member,
and will conduct a research project that will result in a ﬁnal paper;
Achievement level desired: ACTFL* Advanced Low to Advanced-Mid
Japanese (JAPN)
JAPN 101   Japanese I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces the four basic communicative skills in Japanese:
listening, speaking, reading, and writing. Students gain knowledge of
Japanese culture and ways of thinking which provide the context for
communicating in Japanese. No previous knowledge of Japanese is
required.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Japanese Language and Culture   
Course equivalencies:  X-JAPN101/ASIAJ01   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and respond to greetings,
introductions, and basic question about time, location, and directions and
will be able to read and write hiragana and katakana, the two phonetic
Japanese scripts as well as about 25 ideographic characters
JAPN 102   Japanese II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  JAPN 101   
Students will build on the skills in listening comprehension, speaking,
reading and writing gained in JAPN 101.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Japanese Language and Culture   
Course equivalencies:  X-JAPN102/ASIAJ02   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to introduce themselves and others, discuss daily
life, and read and write simple paragraph length compositions with the
aid of vocabulary lists
JAPN 103   Japanese III   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  JAPN 102   
Students will expand their knowledge of Japanese vocabulary, grammar,
usage, and speech levels, using Japanese as a medium for learning
Japanese.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Japanese Language and Culture   
Course equivalencies:  X-JAPN103/ASIAJ03   
Outcomes:
Students will use written and spoken Japanese to ask for and express
opinions, to ask for assistance, and to participate in a variety of written
and verbal social routinesJAPN 104   Japanese IV   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  JAPN 103   
This course extends students' knowledge of Japanese grammar,
vocabulary, verbal routines, and cultural patterns. Students will read and
respond in Japanese to short works of ﬁction and non-ﬁction.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Japanese Language and Culture   
Course equivalencies:  X-JAPN104/ASIAJ04   
Outcomes:
Students will converse in Japanese for extended periods and be able to
decode and create many written items from daily life such as application
forms, catalogs, and recipes
JAPN 250   Composition & Conversation I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students gain mastery of intermediate Japanese grammar and increase
their ability to use honoriﬁc and humble speech, with increasing use of
Japanese as the medium of instruction.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Japanese Language and Culture   
JAPN 251   Composition & Conversation II   (3 Credit Hours)   
This class is conducted mostly in Japanese with students developing the
ability to read and discuss longer texts, including primary sources, to gain
greater knowledge and understanding of Japan.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Japanese Language and Culture   
Literature in Translation (LITR)
LITR 161   Introduction to Italian Culture   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces students to major social, artistic, and intellectual
currents in the cultural history of Italy from antiquity to contemporary
times. The overall goal is to reflect on how Italian culture has
transcended the strict conﬁnes of its national origin to become  a source
of universal values and inspiration.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies, Italian American
Studies, Italian Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to identify the historical roots of Italian cultural
phenomena; Students will become familiar with differing traditions and
cultural perspectives; Students will enhance their reading and critical
thinking skills
LITR 200   European Masterpieces   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
Major European literary texts will be examined in a historical and cultural
context and in their transhistorical, universal aspects that make them
masterpieces. Students will understand how literary masterpieces help
us develop critical consciousness of our experience.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  LITR200/INTS200   
LITR 202   European Novel   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course will focus on major EUROPEAN novels.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  LITR202/INTS204   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an overview of the literary production of representative
EUROPEAN novelists studied in the historical and societal context

--- Page 527 ---
558  Modern Languages and Literatures
LITR 203   European Drama   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will focus on major European novels.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-LITR203/INTS205   
Outcomes:
Students will learn how drama enhances our understanding of human
interaction, violence, social order and the margins of individual freedom
LITR 204   European Film   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will focus on major European ﬁlms in order to give students
an overview of the ﬁlm production of representative European ﬁlmmakers
studied in the historical and societal context.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Film & Digital Media Studies,
Global Studies, International Film & Media Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-LITR204/INTS206/IFMS205   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of the distinctive aspects of the
major European movements such as Italian neorealism, French new wave,
New German Cinema and old and new Spanish surrealism
LITR 211   Latina Authors   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course will examine the writings of Latina authors: women writers
from diverse Hispanic backgrounds who make their home in the United
States and publish their writings in a particular form of English full of
offerings from standard Spanish, "street Spanish", regional speech, and
Spanglish.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  LITR211/INTS207   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of the principal thematic and formal
differences and similarities that characterize today's writings by Latina
authors
LITR 219   African Film   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will survey African ﬁlm from the 1960s to the present,
concentrating on the cinema of Francophone West Africa, the center of
the African ﬁlm industry.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, Global Studies,
International Film & Media Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-LITR219/INTS219/IFMS219   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of the legacies of colonialism,
identity formation, corruption and violence in post-colonial so ciety,
globalization, the positive and negative effects of tradition, and changing
sex roles in modern Africa
LITR 221   Polish Authors   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the major Polish writers from the Renaissance
through the Enlightenment and Romantic periods, and into the modern
era.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies, Polish Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-LITR221/INTS221   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of the Polish cultural traditional and
the basis of Polish cultural identity
LITR 225   Russian Masterpieces   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will study 18th, 19th, and 20th century Russian literature,
including poetry, drama, and ﬁction.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-LITR225/INTS225   
Outcomes:
Students will learn of the importance of Pushkin, Russia's most influential
poet and about influential Russian psychological realists - Gogol,
Turgenev, Dostoevsky, Tolstoy and ChekhovLITR 230   German Masterpieces   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students will study German novels or other literary texts in which German
authors explore their historical and human experience and reflect on the
process of literary creation.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-LITR230/INTS230   
Outcomes:
Student will gain or enhance their abilities to examine the portrayal of
human values in literary texts
LITR 238   Arabic Literature in Translation   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course is a survey of Arabic literature in translation with a focus on
continuity and change, influence, and major trends, themes, and genres.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Arabic Language and Culture, Global Studies,
Islamic World Studies   
Course equivalencies:  LITR238/INTS238/IWS238   
Outcomes:
Students will gain a foundational knowledge of literature in the Arabic
language
LITR 243   South Asian Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will explore literature originally written in languages of
the Indian sub-continent such as Hindi, Urdu, Bengali, Assamese, or
Tamil. Themes such as nationalism, the Partition experience, communal
identities, gender and class may be highlighted.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-LIT243/INTS243/ASIA243   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of how social hierarchies, gendered
structures, and religious differences are central issues in the historical
and social evolution of South Asian nations
LITR 244   Indian Film   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will provide an introduction to popular cinema (Bollywood),
as well as regional and parallel cinema, to arrive at an assessment of the
link between culture and nationalism in modern South Asia.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Film & Digital Media Studies, Global
Studies, International Film & Media Studies   
Course equivalencies:  LITR244/INTS244/IFMS/ASIA244   
Outcomes:
Students will be introduced to political and socio-cultural issues including
religious, gender, and caste identities as reflected in and refracted
through South Asian cinema; We will examine the conventions of popular
cinema in contrast to the "realism" of parallel cinema
LITR 245   Asian Masterpieces   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course will study masterpieces of Asian literature in a variety of
literary genres in their cultural context.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-LITR245/INTS245/ASIA245   
Outcomes:
Students will gain a signiﬁcant understanding of how Asian lite rary works
reflect their Asian cultural context

--- Page 528 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 559
LITR 260   Italian Masterpieces   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will focus on major Italian literary works in order to give
students an overview of the literary production of representatives, Italian
poets and writers studied in the historical, art-historical and societal
context.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  LITR260/INTS260   
Outcomes:
Students will understand how the importance of key authors in shaping
the Italian cultural imagination and their great influence on European
culture
LITR 262   Modern Italian Novel   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will provide an introduction to the 20th century Italian novel
and will examine literary works in the historical and societal context.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-LITR262/INTS262   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of the transformation of Italian
society in the 20th century
LITR 264   Italian Film Genre   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will feature celebrated ﬁlms of the Italian comic tradition
from the age of "commedia all'italiana" in the 1950's to the present.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Film & Digital Media Studies,
Global Studies, International Film & Media Studies, Italian American
Studies, Italian Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-LITR264/INTS264/IFMS264   
Outcomes:
Students will learn to understand and appreciate Italian comic ﬁlms and
gain insights into the Italian national character
LITR 267   Italian Film History   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will focus on major Italian ﬁlms in order to give students an
overview of the development of representative Italian ﬁlmmakers studied
in the historical and societal context.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Film & Digital Media Studies,
Global Studies, International Film & Media Studies, Italian American
Studies, Italian Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-LITR267/INTS267/IFMS267   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of the importance of ﬁlm art in the
Italian 20th and 21st century cultural traditions
LITR 268   Italy: Cultural History   (3 Credit Hours)   
This interdisciplinary, multimedia course provides a comprehensive view
of Italian civilization from its origins in Classical Antiquity to the present,
and includes an overview of the history of architecture and art from the
Greco-Roman period and the Renaissance to the modern period as well
as the study of Italian political, social, religious and cultural development
through examination of key literary and other texts.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies, Italian American
Studies, Italian Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-LITR268/INTS268   
Outcomes:
Students will develop a critical consciousness of the importance of a
multidisciplinary panoramic overview of Italy's rich past as they explore
the Italy of todayLITR 268R   Italian Culture: Food & Wine   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course deals with the history of Italian cuisine and wines through
centuries up to present day. It outlines the development and change
of taste, how it has been affected and deﬁned by historical events. A
dynamic pattern of society is thus given by the intersections among
history, culture, food and wines. The course will also offer on-site classes
and guest speakers. Students will demonstrate an historical appreciation
of the change in eating and drinking habits in modern Italy, and a
knowledge of Italy's move towards a more ethnic and global taste.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies, Italian American
Studies, Italian Studies   
LITR 280   World Masterpieces in Translation   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course will study literary masterpieces, in translation, of a selected
culture or nation.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  LITR280/INTS280   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an appreciation of the literary masterpieces of another
culture or nation
LITR 283   Major Authors in Translation   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCLR 100, UCLR 100C, UCLR 100E, UCLR 100M, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
G3This course will study the works of selected authors, in translation, of a
selected culture or nation.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  LITR283/INTS283   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an appreciation of the writings of authors of another
culture or nation
LITR 284   International Film   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will study selected ﬁlms of a speciﬁc nation, region, or
culture.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, Global Studies,
International Film & Media Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-LITR284/INTS284   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an appreciation of the cinematic themes and
techniques of another culture or nation
LITR 287   Topics in Asian Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces students to representative works of Asian
literature within their cultural, historical, and aesthetic contexts.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-LITR287/INTS287   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze literary texts of a particular genre and
write critical essays on the works read in the course

--- Page 529 ---
560  Modern Languages and Literatures
LITR 290   Classical Chinese Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a survey of the classical Chinese literature from ancient
time to the fall of Qing Dynasty.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Chinese Language & Culture, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will reach aesthetical appreciations and cultural understandings
of classical Chinese literature, and grasp the styles and creative skills
of different Chinese poets and writers; They will learn to read literary
texts within their particular Chinese social, historical, cultural and mental
contexts
LITR 291   Italian & Italian-American Women Writers   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a comparative study of 20th century Italian & Italian-
American writers from different periods and geographic areas. What
unites these writers in addition to their nationality and ethnicity is that
the city of Rome played a central role in their development as artists.
Special emphasis will be given to the construction of the female and male
subject; ties among women, and the dynamic interplay of gender, politics,
spirituality, etc.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Italian American Studies, Italian
Studies, Women & Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
To identify the differences between women and men who hail from
different parts of Italy and different immigrant communities in America,
while highlighting their common national heritage; To understand the city
of Rome as having played a central role in literary history from the 19th
century to the present
LITR 292   Modern Chinese Fiction   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces selected ﬁctional works by some of the most
insightful writers of modern China. The course focuses on signiﬁcant
aspects of these works with an objective to enhance students'
fascination with and skill in the reading and analysis of modern Chinese
ﬁction. Knowledge of modern Chinese ﬁction will enable students to
understand central aspects of 20th century Chinese culture.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Literary Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Chinese Language & Culture, Global
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-LITR292/ASIA292/INTS290   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze literary texts of a particular historical
period and write critical essays on works read in the course
LITR 299   Comparative Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will examine literary themes and problems of the instructor's
choice in multiple literary traditions. Literary theory will be an important
component of the course.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-LITR299/INTS299   
LITR 392   Theories of Myth   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course surveys important models used to interpret the mythology of
Classical Greece and Rome and other cultures.
Course equivalencies:  X-CLST392/LITR392   
Outcomes:
Students should be able to demonstrate a sophisticated understanding
of different interpretive theories applicable to mythology, their
advantages and limitations; They should be able to apply these theories
and to demonstrate what learning may be derived from themPolish (POLS)
POLS 101   Polish I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on introducing the student to the basics of Polish,
through conversation, pronunciation and grammar. Primary emphasis is
on enabling the student to speak and understand basic Polish.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Polish Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to use correctly and understand the basic
grammatical forms of the verbs, nouns and adjectives of Polish as an
inflected language; They will be appropriately prepared to complete the
full view of Polish structures in Polish
POLS 102   Polish II   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on introducing the student to the basics of Polish,
through conversation, pronunciation and grammar. Primary emphasis is
on enabling the student to speak and understand basic Polish.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Polish Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to use correctly and understand the basic
grammatical forms of the verbs, nouns and adjectives of Polish as an
inflected language; They will be appropriately prepared to complete the
full view of Polish structures in Polish
POLS 103   Polish III   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  POLS 102   
This course is designed to further develop and improve student's ability
to speak and read Polish, by introducing advanced grammar, vocabulary,
idioms, phraseology and syntax structures.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Polish Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to use correctly and understand various
grammatical forms of verbs, nouns, adjectives, adverbs and numbers;
They will be appropriately prepared to use Polish grammatical and
stylistic structures required in POLS 104
POLS 104   Polish IV   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  POLS 103   
This course focuses on improving the student's ability to communicate in
Polish both oral and written. Primary emphasis is on speaking and basic
writing in Polish using proper grammatical and stylistic structures.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Polish Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to express themselves in spoken and written Polish
with the level of fluency appropriate for POLS 250
POLS 201   Polish Medical Terminology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  POLS 104 or equivalent   
This course is designed to prepare students for medical and healthcare
related professions, future physicians and nurses, healthcare
administrators and health insurance specialists. We will study Polish
vocabulary for anatomy and physiology, and introduced Polish terms
for medical procedures and tests. We will use phraseology common for
taking medical history. Students will practice using medical terminology
in patient interviews, reading articles from healthcare publications as well
as understanding and formulating medical instructions. In this course we
will also talk about cultural issues in practicing medicine, including the
cultural differences between Polish and American approach. There will be
strong emphasis on speaking, listening, and reading Polish.
Outcomes:
Students will expand their Polish vocabulary, including body parts and
functions, diseases and their manifestations; They will practice taking
a medical history in dialogues between medical professionals and their
clients as well as use medical names and description

--- Page 530 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 561
POLS 202   Polish for Healthcare   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  POLS 104 or equivalent   
This course is designed to prepare students for medical professions,
future physicians, dentists, and nurses. We will practice vocabulary for
anatomy and physiology, Polish terms for medical procedure and test as
well as phraseology used in every day in doctor-patient communication.
This course will cover medical specializations such as: pediatrician,
nutritionist, internist, immunologist, neurologist, psychiatrist and
surgeon. We will also talk about cultural issues in practicing medicine.
There will be strong emphasis on speaking, listening, and reading Polish
and using more advanced aspects of Polish grammar.
Outcomes:
Students will learn medical vocabulary, including body parts and organs,
physiology and functions of various systems; They will practice taking
medical history in dialogues between medical professionals and their
patients, and they will write descriptions of medical conditions
POLS 250   Composition & Conversation I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  POLS 104   
This course focuses on improving and further developing student's ability
to converse and write in literary Polish language. Primary emphasis is
on proper grammatical and stylistic expression in Polish with extended
vocabulary and phraseology.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Polish Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to express themselves in spoken and written Polish
by making oral presentations and writing short compositions; They will be
appropriately prepared for POLS 251
POLS 251   Composition & Conversation II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  POLS 250   
This course focuses on enhancing and polishing student's ability to
converse and write in contemporary Polish language. Primary emphasis
is on standard, literary Polish with its grammatical, orthographical and
stylistic level expected of an educated Polish speaker.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Polish Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to speak fluently, make oral presentations and write
essays in standard literary Polish language with fluency of an educated
Polish speaker
POLS 270   Contemporary Polish Culture in the Original Language   (3
Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  POLS 104 or equivalent   
We will discuss the key elements of Polish culture as it is evolving in the
fast changing social, technological, and economic circumstances after
the political transformation of Central Europe. Students will explore the
cultural traditions and values of the pre-WWII generation and the Soviet
era generation, which led many to emigrate from Poland.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Polish Studies   
Russian (RUSS)
RUSS 101   Russian I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to the basic elements of the Russian
language and to Russian culture.
Outcomes:
Students will develop communicative skills and a fundamental
knowledge of the Russian people, language and cultureRUSS 102   Russian II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  RUSS 101   
This course continues the study of the Russian language and cul ture.
Outcomes:
Students will continue developing communicative skills and further their
knowledge of the Russian people, language and culture
RUSS 103   Russian III   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  RUSS 102   
This course is an intensive review of speaking, listening, reading, and
writing Russian.
Outcomes:
Students will develop audio-lingual facility in communication and the
ability to read simple texts in Russian
RUSS 104   Russian IV   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  RUSS 103   
This course continues the intensive review of speaking, listening, reading,
and writing Russian.
Outcomes:
Students will develop audio-lingual facility in communication and the
ability to read short literary and cultural texts in Russian
RUSS 290   Russia and Russians in the World   (3 Credit Hours)   
RUSS 290 is a service learning course focusing on leadership through
service learning and the study of the Russian language and history.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
1) Students will develop Russian language skills (speaking, listening,
reading, writing) and expand their knowledge of Russian history and
culture; 2) Student will develop civic engagement leadership skills
through practical service work and reflection
Spanish (SPAN)
SPAN 101   Spanish I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to the basic elements of Spanish language
and culture. It is designed for students with no previous experience in
Spanish.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand simple messages and short
narratives, respond to basic inquiries about themselves and others,
formulate basic questions, as well as understand basic written texts
SPAN 102   Spanish II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  SPAN 101   
This course builds on SPAN 101, and introduces students to new topics
and grammatical structures.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Latin American Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to produce sounds in Spanish more accurately,
express appropriate reactions to ordinary situations, understand basic
oral commands, read more complex texts, and write sentences in
cohesive paragraphs
SPAN 103   Spanish III   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  SPAN 102   
This course is the ﬁrst semester of second-year Spanish.
Outcomes:
Students will increase their knowledge of Spanish grammar and
vocabulary, and their Spanish communication skills

--- Page 531 ---
562  Modern Languages and Literatures
SPAN 104   Spanish IV   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  SPAN 103   
This course is the second semester of second-year Spanish.
Outcomes:
Students will continue to perfect their knowledge of Spanish grammar
and vocabulary, with greater stress on reading and speaking
SPAN 190   Spanish for Medical Professionals I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course develops intermediate-level skills in comprehension and
conversation for the health professions. It is for students who have
completed at least Spanish 104 who have intermediate-level Spanish
language skills.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and use appropriate Spanish
expressions in a variety of situations involving use of Medical Spanish;
Students will understand essential information about the dialects
and cultural characteristics of major Spanish speaking populations in
Chicago
SPAN 195   Spanish for Medical Interpretation   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is part of an intermediate advanced sequence focusing on
(mainly) advanced oral intercultural skills in Spanish language oriented
to preparing students for the interaction with Spanish speaking patients
with none or little English skills. Students will develop a strong cultural
sensitivity to improve future patient-doctor communications, while
reflecting on the role of medical interpreters in successful medical
outcomes. An intensive speaking, translating and interpreting training will
help to strengthen students' knowledge of language and their conﬁdence
in its use.
SPAN 250   Composition & Conversation I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  SPAN 104   
This course is the ﬁrst in an intermediate-level sequence designed to
develop greater fluency in speech and writing through diverse readings
and activities and is taught in Spanish.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to speak, read, write, and comprehend readings in
Spanish at the intermediate level
SPAN 251   Composition & Conversation II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  SPAN 250   
Advanced conversation and composition course designed to develop
greater fluency in speech and writing through diverse readings and
activities. Taught in Spanish and required for Spanish majors.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to speak, read, write, and comprehend readings in
Spanish at the advanced, third-year college level
SPAN 252   Composition & Conversation: Native Speakers   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  fluency in Spanish   
This course is designed for Spanish-speaking students, and is an
Intensive study of grammar and composition.
Outcomes:
Students will develop greater fluency in written Spanish
SPAN 253   Advanced Composition & Conversation: Native Speakers   (3
Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  SPAN 252 or equivalent   
This course is a continuation of SPAN 252.
Outcomes:
Students will develop greater fluency in written SpanishSPAN 270   Introduction to Critical Analysis in Spanish   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course reviews and sharpens the essential skills and techniques
necessary to critically read, interpret, and write and speak about all
genres of Hispanic literature (narrative, poetry, drama, and essay) in
Spanish. In so doing, students reﬁne their linguistic skills, and gain
awareness of the complexities of the Spanish-speaking world.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain the necessary skills for critically reading, writing and
discussing all genres of Hispanic literature
SPAN 271   Introduction to Iberian Literature and Culture   (3 Credit
Hours)   
An introduction to Iberian literature, ﬁlm, and cultural production,
designed to provide students with an understanding of Iberian culture,
history, and society, while also honing their linguistic and analytical skills.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain a grounding in Iberian literary and cultural production,
an understanding of various literary and cultural forms, and an awareness
of their context of production
SPAN 272   Introduction to Spanish American Literature and Culture   (3
Credit Hours)   
An introduction to Spanish-speaking Latin American literature, ﬁlm, and
other forms of cultural production, designed to provide students with an
understanding of the region's variety and complexity while also honing
their linguistic and analytical skills.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain a grounding in Spanish-speaking Latin American
literary and cultural production, an understanding of various literary and
cultural forms, and an awareness of their context of production
SPAN 300   Tutorial for Credit   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  permission of chairperson   
Course material will be agreed upon by the student and instructor.
Outcomes:
Students will explore an aspect of Spanish language, culture and
civilization, or literature not present in the curriculum or not offered that
semester
SPAN 302   Business Spanish   (3 Credit Hours)   
Introduction to the fundamentals of the Spanish language and Hispanic
culture as it relates to business practices.
Outcomes:
Students will learn the language of commerce in Spanish
SPAN 305   Advanced Spanish Grammar   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  SPAN 251 and permission of chairperson   
This course is an overview of the most important aspects of Spanish
grammar: sentence components, verbal systems, pronominal system,
sentence structure, and paragraph structure.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze words, sentences, both simple and
compound, and to properly use pertinent linguistic terminology
SPAN 308   Literary Criticism   (3 Credit Hours)   
Introduction to various theories and methods of literary criticism and
textual analysis. Conducted in English.
Course equivalencies:  X-FREN/GERM/ITAL/SPAN308   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate a comprehensive critical knowledge
of major currents and themes in international literary criticism and theory

--- Page 532 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 563
SPAN 311   Generation of 1898   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Permission of chairperson   
This course studies the distinctive group of turn-of-the-century Spanish
writers known as the 'Generation of 1898': Unamuno, Baroja, Valle-Inclán,
Machado, etc.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to discern the similarities and differences among
the writers of this generation, as well as their relationship to modernism
SPAN 314   Survey of Medieval Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a survey of the more prominent works of the Spanish
Middle Ages - El Cantar de Mío Cid, El libro del buen amor, El conde
Lucanor, and La tragicomedia de Calisto y Melibea o La Celestina -
which reflect the religious, spiritual, and intellectual currents of Medieval
Spain. In the form of seminar discussions and independent study,
students will examine the aesthetic, social, and political trends of the
ninth through ﬁfteenth centuries, as well as the most important themes
writers developed in pre-modern Iberia: honor, authority, vice and virtue,
pilgrimage, devotion, and humor. These themes will be explored in
the major works (primary sources), which will be complemented by
secondary source readings and each student's independent research. The
writers and texts studied in this course will also be viewed in the context
of the greater artistic production in Spain and Medieval Europe.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Medieval Studies   
SPAN 319   Romanticism   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  permission of chairperson   
Study of the principle philosophical and esthetic characteristics of
romanticism through readings in the major Spanish and/or Latin
American romantic authors.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to recognize the principle characteristics of
romanticism, its foreign influences, and its historical development in a
variety of genres, including drama, prose ﬁction, essay, and poetry
SPAN 321   20th Century Theatre   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  permission of chairperson   
An examination of 20th Century Theater in Spain covering such
dramatists as Valle-Inclán, J. Benavente, M. Mihura, García Lorca, Buero
Vallejo, and others.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of dramatic genres and the
contribution of Spanish playwrights to contemporary discussions on
political and aesthetic issues
SPAN 326   Theater of The Golden Age   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  permission of chairperson   
A study of major Renaissance and Baroque plays by Calderón, Lope
de Vega, Tirso de Molina, Mira de Amescua, Juan Ruiz de Alarcón, and
others.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will learn to recognize mythological and historical themes while
discussing the ethics of tragedy, the evolution of comic characters, and
social concerns in the era of absolutism
SPAN 330   Survey-Poetry Theory & Practice   (3 Credit Hours)   
The poetry of the 19th century in Spain and Latin America derives
from two literary, artistic and cultural movements: romanticism and
modernism.SPAN 331   20th Century Poetry   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Permission of chairperson   
A study of the development of modern Spanish poetry from post-
modernism to the present with a special emphasis on the Hispanic poets
of the avant garde.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will able to recognize the major poetic trends, forms, themes,
and movements in 20th century Spanish verse
SPAN 336   Poetry of The Golden Age   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  permission of chairperson   
An exploration of the influence of the Italian Renaissance on the Spanish
tradition: Garsilaso de la Vega, Herrera, San Juan de la Cruz, Fray Luis de
León, Quevedo, Góngora and others.
Outcomes:
Students will learn to recognize classical themes and rhetorical
techniques, and to trace the development of such genres as epic, satire,
and the lyric
SPAN 339   19th Century Poetry   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  permission of chairperson   
This course is a survey of 19th-century literature, with emphasis on
Romanticism and Realism.
Outcomes:
Students will become acquainted with the rich literature of the nineteenth
century and will improve their critical and analytical skills
SPAN 340   Survey Prose-Fictional & Nonﬁction   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  permission of chairperson   
This course traces the development of Spanish prose from the Middle
Ages to the present day. All prose genres are included.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will come to appreciate and understand how peninsular prose
has developed
SPAN 341   20th Century Spanish Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  permission of chairperson   
Beginning with the Generation of 1898 and concluding with post-
modernism, this course studies the rich literature of modern Spain.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will better understand and appreciate the complexities of
modern Spanish literature, as well as improve their critical and analytical
skills
SPAN 346   Prose of The Golden Age   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  permission of chairperson   
An approach to the picaresque, the pastoral novel and the essay with
their concern with power and submission in everyday life. A study of the
growing role of individual experience in ﬁctional modes.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will recognize the confluence of different prose styles, and the
creation of individual voices in ﬁction; They will also become familiar with
emerging concerns with religious and scientiﬁc issues during the period

--- Page 533 ---
564  Modern Languages and Literatures
SPAN 347   Cervantes Don Quijote   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  permission of chairperson   
This course reads Cervantes' masterpiece with an emphasis on critical
approaches, and on the book's impact on the invention of the modern
novel.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will learn about Cervantes's contribution to the development of
modern ﬁction; They will become familiar with the novel's connection to
other literary genres, and the role of metaﬁction and textuality
SPAN 349   Realism and Naturalism   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  permission of chairperson   
This course is primarily a study of the novel of Realism and Naturalism,
as well as of the short story.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand the goals of the great Realists and
Naturalists and see their relationship to the major European masters of
the nineteenth century
SPAN 352   Masterpieces of Latin American Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  permission of chairperson   
This course is a survey of representative works from pre-Colombian times
to the present day, and an introduction to literary genres and deﬁning
themes in Latin American literature. It is taught in Spanish.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Latin American Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-SPAN352/LASP372   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand the principal works, movements, and
genres in Latin American literature
SPAN 353   Literary Masterpieces of Spain   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a survey of representative works of Spanish literature from
the Middle Ages to the present, that is, from the ﬁrst texts in the Castilian
Spanish language (eleventh century), to works of the Renaissance and
Baroque, and beyond, to key works of modern and contemporary times.
Outcomes:
Students will obtain a ﬁrm grasp of Iberian literary production, and an
awareness of their context of production
SPAN 360   Intro to Hispanic Linguistics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  SPAN 271 or 272   
Introduction to Hispanic Linguistics is an introductory course on
the structure of Spanish and its use in the Spanish-speaking world.
Introducing the linguistic terminology and the basis for this science,
helping the student analyze the grammatical structure and sounds of
Spanish, and familiarizing the student with the different varieties of
Spanish.
SPAN 361   Hispanic Women Writers   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  SPAN 271 or SPAN 272   
A comparative study of 20th century Spanish and Latin American women
writers who practice a variety of genres: autobiography, memoir, novel,
short story, poetry, and testimonio.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to recognize the major concerns of 20th century
Hispanic women's writingSPAN 362   History of Hispanic Feminism   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course challenges the usual view of feminism in Hispanic societies
- that it played a minimal role in the revolutionary movements of the 20th
century - through the reading of a series of works from the colonial period
to the present, that chart the Hispanic woman's struggle to achieve
liberation and self-realization.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to trace the true history of Hispanic feminism,
beginning with Sor Juanna Ines de la Cruz, and ending with such
contemporary feminist writers as Rosario Ferre, Rosario Castellanos,
Montserrat Roig, and Rosa Montero
SPAN 363   Borges   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the poetry and prose of Jorge Luis Borges, one of
the central ﬁgures in 20th century Latin American literature, and one of
the major writers of modern times.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to recognize the major themes and forms of Borges,
as well as appreciate his seminal role in the creation of the so-called
literature of the "boom" in Latin America
SPAN 364   Advanced Spanish Oral Expression   (3 Credit Hours)   
This advanced Spanish course will induce students to acquire more
sophisticated tools for conversational management and oral expression,
and in enlarging their vocabulary through structured practice.
Outcomes:
Students will gain more sophisticated skills and fluency in Spanish
SPAN 365   Latin American Cinema   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will focus on Latin American cinema, from its early
beginnings in silent cinema to the present. Instructor's consent required
to enroll.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Latin American Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of the formation of national ﬁlm
industries, the emergence of larger regional trends, and the cinematic
treatment of social, political and economic aspects of various Latin
American countries
SPAN 366   Spanish Cinema   (3 Credit Hours)   
Spanish ﬁlm from early Surrealistic cinema to contemporary pastiche:
Bunuel, Berlanga, Erice, Borau, Saura, Aranda, Almadovar, etc.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of the development of cinema in
Spanish society, and how it incorporated old genres such as comedy or
melodrama
SPAN 367   Spanish Sociolinguistics   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to sociolinguistics.
Outcomes:
Students will gain a rudimentary knowledge of the linguistic sciences
(semantics, phonology, syntax, language acquisition) with a focus mainly
on linguistic issues of great relevance in contemporary United States:
Ebonics, Spanglish, language in the media, language and gender, and
language in politics, and the 'English only' movement

--- Page 534 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 565
SPAN 368   Baroque and Neobaroque   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course will examine XVII century literature, including poetry, drama
and prose of the periods in Spain and Latin- America, and will study the
works of Quevedo, Gongora, Maria de Zayas, Lope de Vega, Calderon, Sor
Juana, Carpentier, Sarduy.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the aspects of XVII century literature that relate
to visual and spatial contexts, and the transformation that lit erature into
a new style
SPAN 370   Latin American Poetry   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  permission of chairperson   
Panoramic view of Latin American poetry with special emphasis on
modernism, the avant-garde, and the post-World War II period. Selected
authors include Gabriela Mistral, Delmira Agustini, César Vallejo, Vicente
Huidobro, Octavio Paz, Pablo Neruda, and Gio
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Latin American Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-SPAN370/LASP370   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the principle forms, trends, themes and
movements in Latin American verse through the work of poets from Sor
Juana Inés de la Cruz to Ernesto Cardenal
SPAN 371   Latin-American Poetesses   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  permission of chairperson   
Survey of Latin American women's poetry from Sor Juana Inés de la Cruz
to Gioconda Belli.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Latin American Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-SPAN371/LASP371   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to discern a distinctive female voice in Latin
American verse, while familiarizing themselves with the principle women
poets from the colonial period to the present
SPAN 380   Latin American Prose Fiction   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  SPAN 270 or 271   
Representative selection of Latin American ﬁction from ﬁrst half of
twentieth century. Taught in Spanish.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Latin American Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-SPAN380/LASP380   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to comment knowledgeably on content, form, and
context of selected Latin American works of ﬁction
SPAN 381   Contemporary Spanish-American Novel   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  SPAN 270 or 271   
This course covers a representative selection of Latin American ﬁction
from second half of twentieth century. Taught in Spanish.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Latin American Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-SPAN381/INTS383/LASP381   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to identify and assess both the contextual and the
formal features of modern Latin American ﬁctionSPAN 382   Latin American Theatre   (3 Credit Hours)   
An introduction to major playwrights from Argentina, Chile, Cuba, México,
Venezuela and Colombia from the early baroque to the 20th Century.
Topics include realism, existentialism, meta-theatre, performance art, and
female dramatists.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Latin American Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-SPAN382/LASP382   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to discuss different schools of drama and their
impact on the stage in South America; They will also become familiar
with playwrights who have used theater to approach social problems and
critique contemporary mores
SPAN 385   Caribbean Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course covers novelists and/or poets from Cuba, the Dominican
Republic and Puerto Rico: Cabrera Infante, Alejo Carpentier, Reinaldo
Arenas, Luis Rafael Sánchez, Ana Lidia Vega, Zoe Valdés, Lezama Lima,
Severo Sarduy and others.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Latin American Studies   
Course equivalencies:  SPAN385/LASP385   
Outcomes:
Students will explore the role of Afro-Caribbean mythology, and learn
about the use of humor and music forms in ﬁction; They will recognize
certain historical patterns (slavery, dictatorship) and how they shape the
creation of extreme characters and situation
SPAN 389   Latin American Short Story   (3 Credit Hours)   
Survey of the Latin American short story from the middle of the 19th
century to the present.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Latin American Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-SPAN389/LASP389   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to contextualize short stories, to analyze them both
formally and thematically, and to recognize the different types of short
story written in Latin American: realist, fantastic, folkloric, indigenist,
humorous, detective, metaphysical, social protest, feminist, etc
SPAN 390   Latin American Culture and Civilization   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  SPAN 270 or 271   
This is a survey course of Latin American culture and civilization and
examines the main cultural, intellectual and political currents that have
taken shape in Latin America. Special attention is given to the art and
literature that has come to from contemporary Latin American culture
within the context of colonization and independence.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, Global Studies, Latin American
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-SPAN390/INTS397/LASP390   
Outcomes:
To gain knowledge, analyze and understand the main characteristics
which deﬁne Latin American culture; This will be accomplished through
the study of texts, art and ﬁlm
SPAN 391   Spanish Culture and Civilization   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  SPAN 270 & SPAN 271   
This is a survey course of Spanish culture and civilization and examines
the main cultural, intellectual and political currents that have taken shape
in Iberia and Spain. Special attention is given to the art and literature that
has come to from contemporary Spanish culture within the context of
European history.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
To gain knowledge, analyze and understand the main characteristics
which deﬁne Latin Spanish culture; This will be accomplished through the
study of primary texts, back-ground reading, art and ﬁlm

--- Page 535 ---
566  Arabic Language and Culture Minor
SPAN 395   Internship   (3 Credit Hours)   
The internship will allow students to work in a variety of settings using
Spanish - business, education, government, or social service agencies.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will gain practical experience in speaking and writing Spanish
SPAN 396   Saints and Sinners of Spain   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  SPAN 270 and SPAN 271 or 272   
This course surveys prominent Spanish Golden Age authors whose
writings reflect the religious, spiritual, and intellectual currents of early
Modern Spain, with a concentration on the culture of the Counter-
Reformation. Its primary focus is how Christian life in reflected in
literature and art and the portrayal of virtue and vice. To comprehend
religious, spiritual and intellectual currents in Spanish culture, as
reflected in literature and art.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
SPAN 397   Topics in Hispanic Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
This revolving-topics course allows students to focus on a speciﬁc
theme, such as Hispanic Feminism, Visions of America, or The Literature,
Cinema ad Music of 21st century Spain. It also provides for in-depth
study of a single author, such as Federico Garcia Lorca, Miguel de
Unamuno or Jorge Luis Borges.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Latin American Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-SPAN397/LASP397   
Arabic Language and Culture Minor
The Arabic program at Loyola University Chicago, established in
2012, serves a hybrid body of students from a variety of linguistic,
socio-cultural, and religious backgrounds. Our program has common
interdisciplinary interests with several ﬁelds including History, Political
Science, Theology, Literature, Global and International Studies, and
Communication.
For more information please contact:
Dr. Sawsan Abbadi  (https://www.luc.edu/modernlang/proﬁles/
sawsanabbadi.shtml/ ) 
Arabic Language Program Director 
Phone: 773.508.2850 
sabbadi@luc.edu
Related Programs
Minor
•Asian Language and Literatures Minor  (p. 567)
•Asian Studies Minor  (p. 277)
•Middle East and Islamic World Studies Minor  (p. 541)
Curriculum
6 total courses (18 credit hours):
Code Title Hours
Arabic Language CoursesLanguage courses must be taken in order. Students may start further
in the sequence if they test out of lower numbered courses.Choose four of the following: 12ARAB 101Arabic IARAB 102 Arabic 102ARAB 103Arabic 103ARAB 104 Arabic 104ARAB 250Advanced Composition And ConversationARAB 251 Advanced Composition and Conversation IIArabic Literature in Translation3
Choose one of the following:LITR 238Arabic Literature in TranslationLITR 280 World Masterpieces in Translation (e.g., Islamic
Literature, etc.)Arabic Culture Courses  13
ANTH 220 Contemporary Cultures of the Middle EastCOMM 297Themes in Communication Studies (Topic: Media
in the Middle East)FNAR 352 Islam and Visual CultureHIST 209Islamic History: Themes & IssuesHIST 300 Topics in History (Select sections with Arab World
content)HIST 312England to 1485PLSC 300 Contemporary Political Issues (Topic: Arab World,
Islam, & US Foreign Policy)PLSC 368Politics of the Middle EastTHEO 295 IslamTHEO 365Women, Gender and Embodiment in IslamTotal Hours18
1Other course options may become available for this requirement on
a rotating basis.  Students should consult with the program director
before enrolling for a course not on this list.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
Language courses must be taken in sequence.  The courses satisfying
the Literature in Translation and Culture Courses requirements of the
Arabic minor can be taken in any order. More than one  Literature in
Translation and Culture Courses can be taken during the same term and
Language and  Literature in Translation and Culture Courses can be taken
during the same semester.  Terms for course offerings may vary.
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year One
First SemesterArabic Language Course #13 Hours3
Second SemesterArabic Language Course #23 Hours3
Year Two
Third SemesterArabic Language Course #33 Hours3

--- Page 536 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 567
Fourth SemesterArabic Language Course #43 Hours3
Year Three
Fifth SemesterArabic Literature in Translation Course3 Hours3
Sixth SemesterArabic Culture Course3 Hours3 Total Hours18
Double Dipping
There is no limit for double dipping.  Please consult with program director
for any questions.
Transfer-Student Residency Requirement
 At least 9 credit hours of Arabic Language and Culture Minor (ARLC-
MINR) requirements must be completed at Loyola.
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Learning Outcomes
Students graduating from our program are expected to reach an
Intermediate High to Advanced Low proﬁciency level as described
by the American Council on the Teaching of Foreign Languages
ACTFL. Although Formal Educated Arabic is emphasized, our program
incorporates basic elements of Levantine dialect to reflect the reality
of the Arab World. The Arabic program is restructuring its curricula to
meet the National Standards of Teaching Foreign Languages in the 21st
century described by ACTFL and highlighting the following outcomes/
standards:
•Communication
•Cultural knowledge and critical perception (or awareness) of other
cultures and people.
•Connections with other related disciplines to reinforce and further the
students’ knowledge
•Comparisons among the nature of the target language and culture(s)
in comparison to other languages and cultures
•Communities: Become life-long learners involved in the functional use
of language and culture worldwide.
Asian Language and Literatures
Minor
The minor in Asian Language and Literatures offers students the
opportunity to master skills of language acquisition and cross-cultural
communicative competence while developing multicultural awareness
of Japanese-speaking and other Asian-language speaking communities. 
Our program prepares students to think critically, and allows them to gain
knowledge of Asian languages and literatures.
For more information please contact:Dr. David Posner 
Phone: 773-508-2850 
dposner@luc.edu
Related Programs
Minor
•Asian Studies Minor  (p. 277)
•Chinese Language and Culture Minor  (p. 568)
•Japanese Language and Culture Minor  (p. 580)
Curriculum
Four courses in Japanese or other Asian languages (with Department
approval) and two courses of Literature in Translation (LITR) on a
Japanese Literature or Asian Literature theme. Students with no
previous experience in Japanese will complete the four course JAPN 101
Japanese I -JAPN 104 Japanese IV  sequence and then complete LITR 245
Asian Masterpieces  (in the area Japanese Literature in Translation)
and one other LITR course.  Students are permitted to substitute an
Asian-themed 200 or 300-level course from another Department (such
as History, Political Science, or Anthropology) for their second required
LITR course. Students with previous knowledge of Japanese will begin
at a higher level than JAPN 101 Japanese I  and complete a four-course
language sequence.
Code Title Hours
Language Courses 12ArabicARAB 101 Arabic IARAB 102Arabic 102ARAB 103 Arabic 103ARAB 104Arabic 104ARAB 250 Advanced Composition And ConversationARAB 251Advanced Composition and Conversation IIChineseCHIN 101Chinese ICHIN 102 Chinese IICHIN 103Chinese IIICHIN 104 Chinese IVCHIN 250Composition and ConversationCHIN 251 Advanced Composition & ConversationCHIN 341Modern Chinese Literature in ChineseCHIN 395 TutorialHindi-UrduHNDI 101 Hindi-Urdu IHNDI 102Hindi-Urdu IIHNDI 103 Hindi-Urdu IIIHNDI 104Hindi-Urdu IVJapaneseJAPN 101Japanese IJAPN 102 Japanese IIJAPN 103Japanese IIIJAPN 104 Japanese IVJAPN 250Composition & Conversation IJAPN 251 Composition & Conversation II

--- Page 537 ---
568  Chinese Language and Culture MinorTwo LITR Courses6Total Hours18
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of the program, students will be able to:
•Show intermediate proﬁciency in speaking, understanding, reading,
and writing skills
•Demonstrate knowledge of content areas (Japanese vocabulary and
grammar, Asian literature and traditions, Asian ﬁlms including in the
Animé genre)
•Understand the principal characteristics which deﬁne Asian cult ure
•Trace change over time in cultural values
•Examine and describe numerous cultural expressions in order to
analyze key elements of Asian cultural identity and make cross-
cultural, intercultural comparisons
•Establish connections between literature, ﬁlm, and society in
Japanese and other Asian cultures
•Attain better cultural competency
•Foster a lifelong interest and enthusiasm for Japanese and Asian
language and literature study
Chinese Language and Culture Minor
The Chinese program offers more than 10 Chinese language courses and
several Chinese Literature in Translation courses leading to a minor in
Chinese language and culture.
A minor in Chinese language and culture should open doors to a variety
of career options, for example, working in a position where Chinese
language skills and cultural/business knowledge are desirable, teaching
at a school or working for a multinational company in China, or pursuing
advanced studies in Chinese, Asian studies, international relations, or
related disciplines.
For more information, please contact:
Hong Chen, Director, Chinese Language and Literature Program 
Department of Modern Languages and Literatures 
107 Crown Center 
Loyola University Chicago 
hchen4@luc.edu
Related Programs
Minor
•Asian Language and Literatures Minor  (p. 567)
•Asian Studies Minor  (p. 277)
•Japanese Language and Culture Minor  (p. 580)
Curriculum
A student wishing to pursue a minor in Chinese language and cul ture
should complete 18 credits in Chinese language, up to 6 credits of whichmay be fulﬁlled by coursework with a focus on Chinese literature and/or
culture.
Code Title Hours
Language Courses 18CHIN 101Chinese ICHIN 102 Chinese IICHIN 103Chinese IIICHIN 104 Chinese IVCHIN 190Business Chinese ICHIN 191 Business Chinese IICHIN 250Composition and ConversationCHIN 251 Advanced Composition & ConversationCHIN 252Advanced Composition and Conversation IICHIN 253 Advanced Composition and Conversation IIILiterature Courses  1LITR 245 Asian Masterpieces 2Culture Courses  1ENVS 281C Environmental Sustainability & Science in ChinaHIST 345ATraditional China from Antiquity to 1550HIST 346A Early Modern China: 1550-1800HIST 346BReform & Revolution in China, 1800-1949HIST 346C History of Christianity in ChinaHIST 347AChina Since 1949: The People's RepublicHIST 347C Cultural Revolution-ChinaHIST 347DModern Chinese History through FilmPHIL 288 Culture and Civilization 3UCLR 100MInterpreting Literature - Modern Langs&LiteraturesTotal Hours18
1Students have the option to take one (1) or two (2) courses in Chinese
Literature or Chinese Culture in lieu of up to two (2) Chinese Language
courses.
2Topics that can count toward the Literature requirement include
Traditional Chinese Literature, Folklore of China, China Through
Literature and Film, and Masterpieces of Chinese Fiction.
3When the focus is on China.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
There are ﬁve options to fulﬁll the requirements for the minor, as shown
in the table below. For example, under Option 1, a student can take six
Chinese language courses to fulﬁll the requirements for the minor; under
Option 4, a student can take four Chinese language courses, one Chinese
literature course, and one course with a focus on Chinese culture taught
by a different academic unit to satisfy the requirements for the minor.OptionLanguageLiteratureCulture
1 6 0 02510
3 4 2 04411
5 4 0 2

--- Page 538 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 569
Option 1 - Six (6) Language Courses
Code Title Hours
Choose six (6) of the following courses: 18CHIN 101Chinese ICHIN 102 Chinese IICHIN 103Chinese IIICHIN 104 Chinese IVCHIN 190Business Chinese ICHIN 191 Business Chinese IICHIN 250Composition and ConversationCHIN 251 Advanced Composition & ConversationCHIN 252Advanced Composition and Conversation IICHIN 253Advanced Composition and Conversation IIITotal Hours18
Option 2 - Five (5) Language Courses and One (1) Literature Course
Code Title Hours
Choose ﬁve (5) of the following courses: 15CHIN 101Chinese ICHIN 102 Chinese IICHIN 103Chinese IIICHIN 104 Chinese IVCHIN 190Business Chinese ICHIN 191 Business Chinese IICHIN 250Composition and ConversationCHIN 251 Advanced Composition & ConversationCHIN 252Advanced Composition and Conversation IICHIN 253 Advanced Composition and Conversation IIIChoose one (1) of the following courses:3LITR 245Asian Masterpieces 1Total Hours18
1Topics that can count toward the Literature requirement include
Traditional Chinese Literature, Folklore of China, China Through
Literature and Film, and Masterpieces of Chinese Fiction.
Option 3 - Four (4) Language Courses and Two (2) Literature
Courses
Code Title Hours
Select four (4) of the following courses: 12CHIN 101Chinese ICHIN 102 Chinese IICHIN 103Chinese IIICHIN 104 Chinese IVCHIN 190Business Chinese ICHIN 191 Business Chinese IICHIN 250Composition and ConversationCHIN 251 Advanced Composition & ConversationCHIN 252Advanced Composition and Conversation IICHIN 253 Advanced Composition and Conversation IIIChoose two (2) of the following courses:6LITR 245Asian Masterpieces 1Total Hours181Taken twice.  Topics that can count toward the Literature requirement
include Traditional Chinese Literature, Folklore of China, China Through
Literature and Film, and Masterpieces of Chinese Fiction.
Option 4 - Four (4) Language Courses, One (1) Literature Course,
and One (1) Culture Course
Code Title Hours
Choose four (4) of the following courses: 12CHIN 101Chinese ICHIN 102 Chinese IICHIN 103Chinese IIICHIN 104 Chinese IVCHIN 190Business Chinese ICHIN 191 Business Chinese IICHIN 250Composition and ConversationCHIN 251 Advanced Composition & ConversationCHIN 252Advanced Composition and Conversation IICHIN 253 Advanced Composition and Conversation IIIChoose one (1) of the following courses:3
LITR 245 Asian Masterpieces 1Choose one (1) of the following courses:3
ENVS 281CHIST 345ATraditional China from Antiquity to 1550HIST 346A Early Modern China: 1550-1800HIST 346BReform & Revolution in China, 1800-1949HIST 346C History of Christianity in ChinaHIST 347AChina Since 1949: The People's RepublicHIST 347C Cultural Revolution-ChinaHIST 347DModern Chinese History through FilmPHIL 288 Culture and Civilization 2UCLR 100MInterpreting Literature - Modern Langs&LiteraturesTotal Hours18
1Topics that can count toward the Literature requirement include
Traditional Chinese Literature, Folklore of China, China Through
Literature and Film, and Masterpieces of Chinese Fiction.
2When the focus is on China.
Option 5 - Four (4) Language Courses and Two (2) Culture Courses
Code Title Hours
Select four (4) of the following courses: 12CHIN 101Chinese ICHIN 102 Chinese IICHIN 103Chinese IIICHIN 104 Chinese IVCHIN 190Business Chinese ICHIN 191 Business Chinese IICHIN 250Composition and ConversationCHIN 251 Advanced Composition & ConversationCHIN 252Advanced Composition and Conversation IICHIN 253 Advanced Composition and Conversation IIIChoose two (2) of the following courses:6
ENVS 281C

--- Page 539 ---
570  French (BA)HIST 345ATraditional China from Antiquity to 1550HIST 346A Early Modern China: 1550-1800HIST 346BReform & Revolution in China, 1800-1949HIST 346C History of Christianity in ChinaHIST 347AChina Since 1949: The People's RepublicHIST 347C Cultural Revolution-ChinaHIST 347DModern Chinese History through FilmPHIL 288 Culture and Civilization 1UCLR 100MInterpreting Literature - Modern Langs&LiteraturesTotal Hours18
1When the focus is on China.
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Learning Outcomes
•For students taking the one- or two-literature-course option,
demonstrate knowledge of some of the most important genres and
works of literature associated with the major historical periods, for
example, selections from the works of Confucius and Mencius.
•For students taking a course with an emphasis on China (e.g., in
history, philosophy, political science) in partial fulﬁllment of the
minor’s requirements, gain a basic understanding of the relevant
historical periods and be able to discuss major events and their
signiﬁcance in China’s development.
•Be able to engage in conversations involving common topics such as
study, work, career aspirations, family, and hobbies and demonstrate
essential knowledge of Chinese culture.
•Be able to read and write routine documents such as email, letters,
and applications using complete and grammatical sentences
following appropriate cultural norms.
French (BA)
The Major in French offers students the opportunity to master skills of
language acquisition and textual analysis while developing multicultural
awareness of the diversity inherent in the Francophone world. Our
program prepares students to think critically, and allows them to gain a
broad appreciation and deep understanding of French and Francophone
literatures and cultures. Our curriculum includes courses in literature
from the Middle Ages until the present day, as well as interdisciplinary
courses that look at cultural and historical movements. Most French
majors take advantage of the study abroad opportunities offered in
conjunction with the Ofﬁce for International Programs, and participate in
extracurricular activities such as French Club or language tutoring and
coaching.
For more information about our programs in French, please contact us
(https://www.luc.edu/modernlang/contactus.shtml/ ).
Eliana Vāgālāu, PhD
Undergraduate Program Director
evagalau@luc.edu(773) 508-7604
Related Programs
Minor
•French Language Minor  (p. 571)
•French Language and Literature Minor  (p. 571)
•Italian Language Minor  (p. 577)
Curriculum
This major requires ten courses totaling 30 credits, excluding FREN 101
Elementary French I –FREN 104 Intermediate French II  or their equivalent.
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesFREN 250French Composition and Conversation I3
FREN 251 French Composition and Conversation II 3FREN 270Main Currents of French Literature & Culture I3
FREN 271 Main Currents of French Literature & Culture II 3FREN 301Stylistics3or FREN 302French for Professions
FREN 317 Le Grand Siècle 3Four FREN 300-Level Courses12Total Hours30
Portfolio Requirement
A senior Capstone E-Portfolio is required for graduation.
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of the Major in French, students will be able to:
•Demonstrate proﬁciency in speaking, understanding, reading, and
writing skills
•Develop analytical skills that will allow them to read and write in
French as well as write organized essays with developed arguments
•Develop skills of literary analysis that will allow them to understand
major topics in French and Francophone literatures and cultures
•Trace developments over time in literary and cultural movements as
well as transformations of political and historical institutions

--- Page 540 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 571
•Analyze and interpret numerous literary texts in order to better
comprehend the representations of cultural identity and make cross-
cultural, intercultural connections
•Establish connections between literature, ﬁlm, and history in France
and the Francophone world
•Attain better cultural competency
•Foster a lifelong interest and enthusiasm for French-speaking cultural
production
French Language and Literature
Minor
The minor in French Language and Literature offers students the
opportunity to master skills of language acquisition and textual analysis
while developing multicultural awareness of the diversity inherent
in the Francophone world. Our program prepares students to think
critically, and allows them to gain knowledge of literary and cultural
expressions of French and Francophone cultures. Students may take
courses in literature from the Middle Ages until the present day, as well as
interdisciplinary courses that look at cultural and historical movements.
For more information, please contact:
Dr. Eliana Vagalau, Undergraduate Program Director 
Crown Center 471 
evagalau@luc.edu
Related Programs
Major
•French (BA)  (p. 570)
Minor
•French Language Minor  (p. 571)
•Literature in Translation Minor  (p. 581)
Curriculum
Requirements
The minor requires six courses in French, excluding FREN 101 Elementary
French I  through FREN 104 Intermediate French II . Students normally
take:
Code Title Hours
FREN 250 French Composition and Conversation I 3FREN 251French Composition and Conversation II3
FREN 270 Main Currents of French Literature & Culture I 13FREN 271Main Currents of French Literature & Culture II3Two FREN 300-Level Courses  16Total Hours18
1Students who are fluent in the language may begin the sequence
at the 270-level with the French Undergraduate Program Director’s
permission.  Students would be required to take two additional FREN
300-level courses in order to meet the minimum 18 credit hours.Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of the Minor in French Language and Literature,
students will be able to:
•Demonstrate proﬁciency in speaking, understanding, reading, and
writing skills
•Develop analytical skills that will allow them to read and write in
French as well as write organized essays with developed arguments
•Develop skills of literary analysis that will allow them to understand
major topics in French and Francophone literatures and cultures
•Trace developments over time in literary and cultural movements
•Analyze and interpret numerous literary texts in order to better
comprehend the representations of cultural identity and make cross-
cultural, intercultural connections
•Establish connections between literature, ﬁlm, and history in the
Francophone world
•Attain better cultural competency
•Foster a lifelong interest and enthusiasm for French-speaking cultural
production
French Language Minor
The minor in French Language offers students the opportunity to master
skills of language acquisition, including speaking, aural comprehension,
reading, and writing, while also developing basic cultural competency in
the French-speaking world.
For more information, please contact:
Dr. Eliana Vagalau, Undergraduate Program Director 
Crown Center 471 
evagalau@luc.edu
Related Programs
Major
•French (BA)  (p. 570)
Minor
•French Language and Literature Minor  (p. 571)
•Italian Language Minor  (p. 577)
Curriculum
Six courses in consultation with the departmental French advisor.
Students with no background in French will begin the sequence with
FREN 101 Elementary French I . Students with high school or other
background language will be placed in FREN 102 Elementary French II  -
FREN 251 French Composition and Conversation II . Courses should be
taken in sequence, except for FREN 250  and FREN 251 , which can be
taken in any order, as well as FREN 270  and FREN 271 , which may also be
taken in any order. ( FREN 270  and FREN 271  require prior completion of
FREN 250  and / or FREN 251 .)

--- Page 541 ---
572  German Studies Minor
Code Title Hours
Minor Requirements 18FREN 101Elementary French IFREN 102 Elementary French IIFREN 103Intermediate French IFREN 104 Intermediate French IIFREN 250French Composition and Conversation IFREN 251 French Composition and Conversation IIFREN 270Main Currents of French Literature & Culture IFREN 271Main Currents of French Literature & Culture IITotal Hours18
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for the major.  Students should consult the undergraduate
program director for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Sequence 1
Semester IFREN 101Elementary French I3 Hours3
Semester IIFREN 102Elementary French II3 Hours3
Semester IIIFREN 103Intermediate French I3 Hours3
Semester IVFREN 104Intermediate French II3 Hours3
Semester VFREN 250French Composition and Conversation I3 Hours3
Semester VIFREN 251French Composition and Conversation II3 Hours3 Total Hours18
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of the Minor in French Language, students will be able
to:
•Demonstrate proﬁciency in speaking, understanding, reading, and
writing skills
•Develop analytical skills that will allow them to read and write in
French as well as write organized compositions•Analyze and interpret texts including newspapers and ﬁlms in order to
better comprehend the representations of cultural identity and make
cross-cultural, intercultural connections
•Attain better cultural competency
•Foster a lifelong interest and enthusiasm for French-speaking cultural
production
German Studies Minor
The German Studies Minor appeals to students who are interested in
gaining cultural proﬁciency in German beyond a language ability in
order to enhance their majors in such areas as Theology, History and
Global and International Studies, and their global career opportunities
in international and domestic business, marketing, law, translation,
government service, news services, or the publishing industry.
Please see the  German Studies webpage   (https://www.luc.edu/
germanstudies/index.shtml/ )for more information.
Related Programs
Minor
•French Language Minor  (p. 571)
•Italian Language Minor  (p. 577)
•Literature in Translation Minor  (p. 581)
Curriculum
The German Studies Minor consists of 19 credit hours (six three-credit
courses + a one-credit capstone) broken down as follows:
Code Title Hours
Pre-RequisitesGERM 101Elementary German I 1GERM 102 Elementary German II 1Required CoursesGERM 103 Intermediate German I 13GERM 104Intermediate German II 13
GRMS 300 German Studies Minor Capstone 1ElectivesStudents choose four courses from the following. In order to qualify
as an elective, a course must have at least one-third of its content
devoted to German cultural history.12GERM 250Composition & Conversation I (offered every fall
semester) 2GERM 251 Composition & Conversation II (offered every
spring semester) 2GERM 320German-American History: Focus on ChicagoGERM 369 German Reading KnowledgeGERM 370German CinemaHIST 300B Topics in Premodern History (offered every other
or third year)HIST 300CTopics in European History (Post-1700) (Poland
and Germany (offered every other or third year)HIST 300C Topics in European History (Post-1700) (offered
every other or third year)HIST 310AMedieval World 1100-1500HIST 310B Medieval Culture (offered every other year)

--- Page 542 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 573HIST 315The ReformationHIST 321 19th Century European Culture and Ideas (offered
every other year)HIST 330Europe in the Age of Catastrophe, 1900-1945
(offered every other or third year)HIST 335 The Second World War (offered every other or third
year)HIST 336Contemporary Europe 1945 to Present (offered
every other or third year)HIST 338A History of European CommunismPHIL 30619th Century Philosophy (offered every other year)PHIL 309 Classical Modern Philosophy (offered annually)PHIL 375Philosophy of Marxism (offered irregularly)PLSC 308 Contemporary Political Thought (offered every
other semester)SOCL 205Sociological Thought (offered every semester)THEO 281Christianity Through Time (offered annually)Total Hours19
1This course may be waived by placement examination or by the
Program Director.
2This is a preferred elective and must be taken unless waived by
placement examination or by the Program Director.
Not less than 8 credit hours in the individual student’s transcript must be
unique to the German Studies Minor; that is, the courses in que stion are
considered as actually fulﬁlling requirements of one minor, not of more
than one minor or major.
Students may wish to satisfy some of the requirements through study
abroad in a German-speaking country.
The ﬁnal component of the program is a one-credit hour capstone project
and paper, done in consultation with a German faculty member. It may
also involve an internship at the DANK Haus in Chicago.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
Language courses must be taken in sequence and may be waived
by placement examination or by the Program Director.  The courses
satisfying electives can be taken in any order. More than one elective
course can be taken during the same term and language and elective
courses can be taken during the same semester.  Terms for course
offerings may vary.
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Option 1
Course Title Hours
Year One
Semester IGERM 103Intermediate German I 13 Hours3Semester IIGERM 104Intermediate German II3 Hours3
Year Two
Semester IIIGERM 250Composition & Conversation I3 Hours3
Semester IVGERM 251Composition & Conversation II3 Hours3
Year Three
Semester VElective #13 Hours3
Semester VIElective #2  Hours0
Year Four
Semester VIIGRMS 300German Studies Minor Capstone1 Hours1 Total Hours16
1GERM 101  and GERM 102  are pre-requisites for the program and may
be required before starting the above sequence.  One or both may be
waived by placement examination or by the Program Director.
Option 2
Course Title Hours
Year One
Semester IGERM 104Intermediate German II 13 Hours3
Semester IIGERM 250Composition & Conversation I3 Hours3
Year Two
Semester IIIGERM 251Composition & Conversation II3 Hours3
Semester IVElective #13 Hours3
Year Three
Semester VElective #23 Hours3
Semester VIElective #33 Hours3

--- Page 543 ---
574  German Studies Minor
Year Four
Semester VIIGRMS 300German Studies Minor Capstone1 Hours1 Total Hours19
1GERM 103  is waived by placement examination or by the Program
Director.
Option 3
Course Title Hours
Year One
Semester IGERM 250Composition & Conversation I3 Hours3
Semester IIGERM 251Composition & Conversation II3 Hours3
Year Two
Semester IIIElective #13 Hours3
Semester IVElective #23 Hours3
Year Three
Semester VElective #33 Hours3
Semester VIElective #43 Hours3
Year Four
Semester VIIGRMS 300German Studies Minor Capstone1 Hours1 Total Hours19
Option 4
Course Title Hours
Year One
Semester IGERM 251Composition & Conversation II 13 Hours3
Semester IIElective #13 Hours3
Year Two
Semester IIIElective #23 Hours3Semester IVElective #33 Hours3
Year Three
Semester VElective #43 Hours3
Semester VIElective #53 Hours3
Year Four
Semester VIIGRMS 300German Studies Minor Capstone1 Hours1 Total Hours19
1GERM 250  is waived by placement examination or by the Program
Director.
Option 5
Course Title Hours
Year One
Semester IElective #13 Hours3
Semester IIElective #23 Hours3
Year Two
Semester IIIElective #33 Hours3
Semester IVElective #43 Hours3
Year Three
Semester VElective #53 Hours3
Semester VIElective #63 Hours3
Year Four
Semester VIIGRMS 300German Studies Minor Capstone1 Hours1 Total Hours19
Learning Outcomes
Students completing the German Studies Minor will:

--- Page 544 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 575
•Achieve a mid-intermediate level of German language proﬁciency
in speaking, reading, writing and listening according to the
Proﬁciency Guidelines of the American Council of Teachers of Foreign
Languages;
•Have speciﬁc knowledge of the cultural history of the German-
speaking world based on the elective courses taken;
•Expand their horizons by virtue of having studied a foreign language
and culture, and will be able bring those perspectives to bear on a
more critical view of their own culture.
Italian (BA)
The major in Italian offers students the opportunity to master skills
of language acquisition and literary and cultural knowledge as cross-
cultural communicative competence while developing multicultural
awareness of Italian speakers in Italy and around the world. Our program
prepares students to think critically and to develop advanced reading
comprehension skills and allows them to gain knowledge of Italian
language, literature, ﬁlm and culture.
Related Programs
Major
•Italian Studies (BA)  (p. 578)
Minor
•Italian Language Minor  (p. 577)
•Italian Language and Literature Minor  (p. 577)
Curriculum
Completion of the BA in Italian degree program requires ten courses
totaling 30 credits, excluding ITAL 101 Italian I  – ITAL 104 Italian IV  or
their equivalent.
Requirements include four 200-level courses, ITAL 312 Dante-The Divine
Comedy , and ﬁve additional 300-level courses chosen from the list below.
Of the six 300-level courses taken, four must be literature courses.
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesRequired 200-level Courses  1ITAL 250 Composition & Conversation I 3ITAL 251Composition & Conversation II3
ITAL 270 Main Currents of Italian Literature I 3ITAL 271Main Currents of Italian Literature II3
Required 300-level CourseITAL 312Dante-The Divine Comedy3
Select ﬁve additional 300-level courses may be chosen from among
the following:15ITAL 300Tutorial for CreditITAL 301 StylisticsITAL 308Literary CriticismITAL 314 Survey 13th & 14th Century LiteratureITAL 315Italian Renaissance LiteratureITAL 316 Renaissance Chivalric PoemsITAL 317Survey Early 19th Century LiteratureITAL 318 Survey Late 19th Cent LitITAL 319Survey of 20th Century ProseITAL 320 Survey of 20th Century PoetryITAL 331Survey of Italian TheaterITAL 340 Italian Short StoryITAL 390Culture & CivilizationITAL 399Italian Honors TutorialTotal Hours30
1200-level courses are prerequisites for 300-level courses.
Students with prior knowledge of Italian:  Please contact a full-
time Italian faculty member  (https://www.luc.edu/modernlang/
faculty_directory.shtml/#Italian ) before registering for a class.
Portfolio Requirement
A senior Capstone E-Portfolio is required for graduation. Click
here  (https://www.luc.edu/modernlang/baprograms/capstonee-
portfolioontaskstreamforfrenchitalianandspanishba/ ) at the beginning of
your major for details.
Teacher Education Requirements
Eleven courses totaling 33 credits, excluding ITAL 101 Italian I  - ITAL 104
Italian IV , including Stylistics and Culture and Civilization. Students in
Secondary Education must also take LING 302 Methods of Teaching
Foreign Language .
Departmental Honors
Students graduating with Departmental Honors take one Honors Tutorial
(ITAL 399 Italian Honors Tutorial ) in addition to the above requirements.
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of the program, students will be able to:
•Produce communication in the Italian language at intermediate to
advanced proﬁciency in speaking, reading and writing
•Demonstrate knowledge of Italian literature in the social and
 historical contexts in which it is produced
•Practice global citizenship through intercultural experiences and
experiential learning
•Establish connections between literature, ﬁlm, and society in Italian
culture

--- Page 545 ---
576  Italian American Studies Minor
These outcomes will be evidenced in the students’ senior capstone
project (ePortfolio).
Italian American Studies Minor
Are you looking to learn more about this nation’s ﬁfth largest ethnic
group and the many dynamic connections between Italy and the United
States that continue to shape our contemporary society? If so, the Italian
American Studies Minor is for you. The curriculum draws upon course
offerings in different ﬁelds, including experiential learning and study
abroad opportunities. Students will learn about the political, cultural,
and historical conditions that led to the mass migration from Italy, with
an emphasis on the Chicagoland area. While focusing on the Italian
experience, the program also aims to provide students with a framework
for understanding other American groups with similar histories, and
for addressing questions related to assimilation, identity, gender, race,
class and religion that continue to inform contemporary discourse on
immigration.
Many of the courses that count towards the minor also fulﬁll the
university’s CORE curriculum requirements, and others count for History,
Criminal Justice, Music, Anthropology, Sociology, and more.
The Italian American Studies Minor is one of only a handful of such
programs in the United States. It resulted from a 5-year long fund-raising
campaign the proceeds of which were matched by Loyola University
Chicago, eventually resulting in the Paul and Ann Rubino Endowed
Professorship and the establishment of the minor.
Come learn about the history, culture and literature of Italian Americans,
and the unique impact they have had on the city of Chicago and the
world.
If you have additional questions about the program, please contact Dr.
Carla A. Simonini, csimonini@luc.edu .
Related Programs
Major
•Italian (BA)  (p. 575)
•Italian Studies (BA)  (p. 578)
Minor
•Italian Language Minor  (p. 577)
Curriculum
Required Courses
Code Title Hours
Italian American StudiesITAS 101Introduction to Italian American Studies3
Italian American ExperienceSelect three of the following:9
HIST 300D Topics in U.S. History 1HIST 379AItalian Americans in World War IIHIST 379B History of Italians in ChicagoITAS 264Italian Americans on ScreenITAS 299 Explorations of the Italian Immigrant ExperienceLITR 280World Masterpieces in TranslationLITR 291 Italian & Italian-American Women WritersIssues and MethodologiesSelect one of the following: 3ANTH 216Cultures of MigrationHIST 389N Anti-Immigrant Politics in U.S. HistoryMUSC 256Jazz Music HistoryPLSC 391 Chicago PoliticsSOCL 122Race and Ethnic RelationsCultural HeritageSelect one of the following:3
HIST 324 Italy 19th & 20th CenturiesHIST 335The Second World WarITAL 290 The ItaliansITAL 390Culture & CivilizationLITR 161 Introduction to Italian CultureLITR 264Italian Film GenreLITR 267 Italian Film HistoryLITR 268Italy: Cultural HistoryLITR 268R Italian Culture: Food & WinePHIL 288RCulture & Civilization in RomeROST 382 Human Rights: View from RomeSOCL 267Italy TodayTotal Hours18
1HIST 300D  only for topic "Italian Americans in Popular Culture".
2Only for topic "Explorations of Calabria and the Calabrian Dias pora".
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The courses can be taken in any order. More than one course can be
taken during the same term and course offerings may vary by term.
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
FallITAS 101Introduction to Italian American Studies3 Hours3
Year 2
FallItalian American Experience Course #13 Hours3
SpringIssues and Methodologies Course3 Hours3
Year 3
FallItalian American Experience Course #23 Hours3

--- Page 546 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 577
SpringItalian American Experience Course #33 Hours3
Year 4
FallCultural Heritage Course3 Hours3 Total Hours18
Learning Outcomes
•Students will be able to broadly articulate the political, cultural, and
historical conditions tha led to mass migration from Italy at various
points in time, and the ways that Italian culture has developed and
continues to take shape in the context of the Americas, with an
emphasis on the Chicagoland area.
•Students will recognize the unique contributions that Italian
Americans have made to U.S. history and the ways Italian immigrants
and their descendants have reciprocally adapted to and influenced
American society as a whole.
•Students will develop a framework for understanding other American
groups with similar histories, and for addressing questions related to
assimilation, identity, gender, race, class and religion that continue to
inform contemporary discourse on immigration.
•Students will develop a basic understanding of the historical and
contemporary connections between the U.S. and Italy, and between
the Italian diaspora in the U.S. and the Italians residing in the
homeland.
•Students will be able to describe and differentiate the religious and
cultural traditions of the various regions of Italy and how they have
been reinterpreted within the American context.
•Students will be able to demonstrate analytical, communication, and
critical-thinking skills through a variety of forms: e.g. essays, oral
presentations, language acquisition, and cultural activities.
Italian Language and Literature Minor
The minor in Italian Language & Literature offers students the
opportunity to master skills of language acquisition and cross-cultural
communicative competence while developing multicultural awareness
of Italian-speaking communities in Italy and beyond its borders. Our
program prepares students to think critically, and allows them to gain
knowledge of cultural expressions produced on the Italian peninsula and
in its diasporas throughout the world.
For information, please contact:
Dr. Cristina Lombardi-Diop, Undergraduate Program Director 
Crown Center 217 
clombardidiop@luc.edu
Related Programs
Major
•Italian (BA)  (p. 575)
Minor
•Italian American Studies Minor  (p. 576)
•Italian Language Minor  (p. 577)Curriculum
A student pursuing the Minor in Italian Language and Literature is
required to take six courses in Italian excluding ITAL 101 Italian I  through
ITAL 104 Italian IV .
Students normally take:
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesITAL 250Composition & Conversation I3
ITAL 251 Composition & Conversation II 3ITAL 270Main Currents of Italian Literature I 13
ITAL 271 Main Currents of Italian Literature II 3Two ITAL 300-Level Courses  16Total Hours18
1Students who are fluent in the language may being the sequence at the
270-level with the Italian Undergraduate Program Director's permission.
  Students would be required to take two additional ITAL 300-level
courses in order to meet the minimum 18 credit hours.
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of the program, students will be able to:
•Show intermediate to advanced proﬁciency in speaking,
understanding, reading and writing skills
•Demonstrate knowledge of content areas (Italian grammar, Italian
cultural expressions, Italian cinema etc.)
•Establish connections between literature, ﬁlm, and society in the
Italian-speaking world
•Acquire a lifelong interest and enthusiasm for Italian-speaking
cultural production
Italian Language Minor
The minor in Italian Language offers students the opportunity to
master skills of language acquisition and cross-cultural communicative
competence while developing multicultural awareness of Italian-speaking
communities in Italy and beyond its borders. Our program prepares
students to think critically, and allows them to gain knowledge of cultural
expressions of various level of the people of Italy and those of Italian
heritage throughout the world.
For information, please contact:
Dr. Cristina Lombardi-Diop, Undergraduate Program Director 
Crown Center 217 
clombardidiop@luc.edu

--- Page 547 ---
578  Italian Studies (BA)
Related Programs
Major
•Italian (BA)  (p. 575)
•Italian Studies (BA)  (p. 578)
Minor
•Italian Language Minor  (p. 577)
Curriculum
Requirements
Six courses in Italian language.
Students with no previous experience in Italian will begin with:
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesITAL 101Italian I3
ITAL 102 Italian II 3ITAL 103Italian III3
ITAL 104 Italian IV 3ITAL 250Composition & Conversation I3ITAL 251Composition & Conversation II3Total Hours18
Students with previous experience in Italian will begin at a higher level
and then complete a total of six Italian courses, which can inc lude literary
courses such as ITAL 270 Main Currents of Italian Literature I  or ITAL 271
Main Currents of Italian Literature II  or 300-level courses, including
ITAL 395 Internship .
Suggested Sequence of Courses
Course Title Hours
Sequence 1
Semester IITAL 101Italian I3 Hours3
Semester IIITAL 102Italian II3 Hours3
Semester IIIITAL 103Italian III3 Hours3
Semester IVITAL 104Italian IV3 Hours3
Semester VITAL 250Composition & Conversation I3 Hours3
Semester VIITAL 251Composition & Conversation II3 Hours3 Total Hours18Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of the program, students will be able to:
•Show intermediate to advanced proﬁciency in speaking,
understanding, reading and writing skills
•Demonstrate knowledge of content areas (Italian grammar, Italian
cultural expressions, Italian cinema etc.)
•Establish connections between literature, ﬁlm, and society in the
Italian-speaking world
•Acquire a lifelong interest and enthusiasm for Italian-speaking
cultural production
Italian Studies (BA)
The Italian Studies Major at Loyola University Chicago is an
interdisciplinary program that offers students a learning experience in
the ﬁeld of the humanities with a focus on broader cultural, historical,
and societal contexts beyond language studies.  Since antiquity, Italy
has been a crossroad of civilizations connecting the ancient, medieval,
and modern world of Europe and the Mediterranean. It continues to be an
international cultural destination and a central passage connecting the
Global North and South. For these reasons, while the mission of teaching
and promoting the language and literature of Italy is at the core of our
Program, the Italian Studies major extends its scope to include multiple
interdisciplinary perspectives (Classics, Environmental Studies, Fine Arts,
Global Studies, History, Philosophy, Theology, Music, and Sociology),
placing the country, its language, and its peoples in a Mediterranean,
European, and global contexts.
The Italian Studies curriculum includes courses in the Italian language;
Italian literature courses both in Italian and in translation; a 300-level
internship course, with the possibility of completing it with international
ﬁrms in Italy; and courses in other disciplines taught at Loyola. The Italian
Studies major prepares students to work in a variety of ﬁelds that require
an international background and solid intercultural skills.
Related Programs
Major
•Italian (BA)  (p. 575)
Minor
•Italian Language Minor  (p. 577)
•Italian Language and Literature Minor  (p. 577)
Curriculum
Completion of the BA in Italian degree program requires ten courses
totaling 30 credits.  Requirements include a 3-credit hour introductory,
interdisciplinary course, ﬁve courses of Italian Language, 9 credit-hours (3
courses) of electives to be chosen from a variety of Core courses, and a 3-
hour Internship or service-learning course, which can be taken in Chicago
or at the John Felice Rome Center.

--- Page 548 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 579
Code Title Hours
Introductory Interdisciplinary CourseLITR 161Introduction to Italian Culture3
Italian Language Courses  115Italian Studies Elective Courses  (p. 579)9
Internship or Service Learning (Chicago or Rome)ITAL 395Internship3
PortfolioA senior portfolio is required for student reflection on their
achievement in the major and for program assessmentTotal Hours30
1Students take ﬁve classes in Italian after placement determined
by their competency. If they have had no Italian, they begin with
ITAL 101 Italian I  and take the next four classes: ITAL 102 Italian II ,
ITAL 103 Italian III , ITAL 104 Italian IV , and ITAL 250 Composition
& Conversation I . Students who place higher than 104 chose from
ITAL 251 Composition & Conversation II , ITAL 270 Main Currents of
Italian Literature I , ITAL 271 Main Currents of Italian Literature II , and
any 300-level ITAL course to ensure that 5 of the 10 courses taken for
the major are taken in the Italian language.
Elective Options
Code Title Hours
CJC 351 Organized Crime 3CLST 206Art of Ancient Greece3
CLST 207 Art of the Roman World 3CLST 276World of Classical Rome3
CLST 277 World of Late Antiquity 3CLST 295Women in the Classical World3
CLST 334R Introduction to Classical Archaeology - Rome/Italy
Focus3ENGL 318RThe Writing of Fiction: Writing Rome3
ENVS 227R Ecology of the Mediterranean Sea 3FNAR 200Global Art History: Prehistoric to 600 CE3
FNAR 201 Global Art History: 600-1800CE 3FNAR 342Art in Rome3
FNAR 343 Baroque Art 3FNAR 344Early Italian Renaissance Art3
FNAR 345 Italian High Renaissance and Mannerist Art 3HIST 253ABarbarians and the Fall of the Roman Empire3
HIST 308B Pompeii and Herculaneum 3HIST 314Renaissance3
HIST 324 Italy 19th & 20th Centuries 3HIST 379AItalian Americans in World War II3
HIST 379B History of Italians in Chicago 3ITAL 251Composition & Conversation II3
ITAL 270 Main Currents of Italian Literature I 3ITAL 271Main Currents of Italian Literature II3
ITAL 300 Tutorial for Credit 1-6ITAL 305Advanced Grammar3
ITAL 312 Dante-The Divine Comedy 3ITAL 315Italian Renaissance Literature3
ITAL 318 Survey Late 19th Cent Lit 3ITAL 319Survey of 20th Century Prose3
ITAL 331 Survey of Italian Theater 3ITAL 340Italian Short Story3
ITAL 390 Culture & Civilization 3ITAL 395Internship3
ITAL 399 Italian Honors Tutorial 3LITR 161Introduction to Italian Culture3
LITR 264 Italian Film Genre 3LITR 267Italian Film History3
LITR 268 Italy: Cultural History 3LITR 268RItalian Culture: Food & Wine3
LITR 291 Italian & Italian-American Women Writers 3MUSC 154RIntroduction to Opera in Rome3
PHIL 277R Aesthetics: the Aesthetic Experience in Rome 3PHIL 288RCulture & Civilization in Rome3
PHIL 304 History of Ancient Philosophy 3PLSC 365Italian Politics & Government3
ROST 382 Human Rights: View from Rome 3SOCL 267Italy Today3
THEO 266 Church & Global Cultures 3THEO 279Roman Catholicism3
Teacher Education Requirements
Eleven courses totaling 33 credits, excluding 101-104, including Stylistics,
Culture and Civilization and either Linguistics 120 or 125. Students
in Secondary Education must also take Linguistics 302—Methods of
Teaching Foreign Languages.
Departmental Honors
Students graduating with Departmental Honors take one Honors Tutorial
(Italian 399) in addition to the above requirements.
Double-Dipping Policy
This department observes the CAS Double-Dipping Policy  (p. 55)
regarding unique credits required for each declared major/minor.
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.

--- Page 549 ---
580  Japanese Language and Culture Minor
Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of the program, students majoring in Italian Studies will
be able to:
•Produce communication in the Italian language at high-intermediate/
low advanced level
•Identify major themes and patterns in the historical and cultural
heritage of Italy by linking its classical past to contemporary times
•Demonstrate ﬁrst-hand experience of Italian culture in both academic
and nonacademic settings
•Apply an intercultural perspective to professional global affairs
acquired through immersion learning experiences, including an
internship
•Integrate the Jesuit principles of service, inclusion, and self-
knowledge into practice
These outcomes will be evidenced in the students’ senior capstone
project (ePortfolio).
Japanese Language and Culture
Minor
Loyola's Japanese Program offers three years of Japanese language
instruction, courses in Japanese literature in translation, and courses on
Japanese ﬁlm, history, culture, contemporary society, religion and art.
Related Programs
Minor
•Asian Language and Literatures Minor  (p. 567)
•Asian Studies Minor  (p. 277)
•Chinese Language and Culture Minor  (p. 568)
Curriculum
The Japanese Language and Culture minor requires students to
complete 18 credit hours. A minimum of 12 credit hours (4 courses)
must be Japanese language courses. The remaining 6 credit hours
can be additional language courses, courses in Japanese Literat ure in
Translation or other courses focused on Japanese society and culture.
Code Title Hours
Courses Satisfying the Japanese Language RequirementSelect a minimum of four of the following:12
JAPN 101 Japanese IJAPN 102Japanese IIJAPN 103 Japanese IIIJAPN 104Japanese IVJAPN 250 Composition & Conversation I (Prerequisite:
JAPN 104 or consent of the instructor)JAPN 251Composition & Conversation II (Prerequisite:
JAPN 250 or consent of the instructor)Courses Satisfying the Literature and Culture ComponentSelect up to two of the following:6
LITR 245 Asian Masterpieces (Survey of Japanese
Literature) 1LITR 245Asian Masterpieces (Identity in Modern Japan) 1LITR 245 Asian Masterpieces (Japanese Pop Culture) 1LITR 284International Film (Introduction to Japanese Film)
1ANTH 215 Contemporary Japanese CultureFNAR 359Japanese Art and CultureHIST 208 East Asian History: Themes & IssuesHIST 349Contemporary Global Issues: Historical
PerspectivesHIST 349A Women in East AsiaPHIL 335Asian PhilosophyTHEO 297 BuddhismTHEO 352Topics in BuddhismTotal Hours18
1Typically offered as a Writing Intensive course.
Suggested Sequence of CoursesOptionLanguage CoursesLiterature, History,
Culture
1 6 0251
3 4 2
Option 1
Language courses must be taken in sequence.  The courses satisfying
the Literature and Culture Component of the Japanese minor can be
taken in any order. More than one Literature and Culture Component
course can be taken during the same term and Language and Literature
and Culture Component courses can be taken during the same semester. 
Terms for course offerings may vary.
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year One
First SemesterJAPN 101Japanese I3 Hours3
Second SemesterJAPN 102Japanese II3 Hours3
Year Two
Third SemesterJAPN 103Japanese III3 Hours3
Fourth SemesterJAPN 104Japanese IV3 Hours3
Year Three
Fifth SemesterJAPN 250Composition & Conversation I3 Hours3

--- Page 550 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 581
Sixth SemesterJAPN 251Composition & Conversation II3 Hours3 Total Hours18
Option 2
Language courses must be taken in sequence.  The courses satisfying
the Literature and Culture Component of the Japanese minor can be
taken in any order. More than one Literature and Culture Component
course can be taken during the same term and Language and Literature
and Culture Component courses can be taken during the same semester.
  Terms for course offerings may vary.  The below grid is to be used as a
suggestion on how to complete the minor.
Course Title Hours
Year One
Semester IJAPN 101Japanese I 13 Hours3
Semester IIJAPN 102Japanese II 13 Hours3
Year Two
Semester IIIJAPN 103Japanese III3 Hours3
Semester IVJAPN 104Japanese IV3 Hours3
Year Three
Semester VJAPN 250Composition & Conversation I3 Hours3
Semester VILiterature and Culture Component Elective3 Hours3 Total Hours18
1Students are allowed opt out of JAPN coursework based on proﬁciency.
  Students should consult with the Japanese Language and Culture
Program Director to be placed in the correct starting course for the
language sequence.  Should a student opt out of JAPN 101 , they must
take JAPN 251  to complete Option 2 sequence.
Option 3
Language courses must be taken in sequence.  The courses satisfying
the Literature and Culture Component of the Japanese minor can be
taken in any order. More than one Literature and Culture Component
course can be taken during the same term and Language and Literature
and Culture Component courses can be taken during the same semester.
  Terms for course offerings may vary.  The below grid is to be used as a
suggestion on how to complete the minor.Course Title Hours
Year One
Semester IJAPN 101Japanese I 13 Hours3
Semester IIJAPN 102Japanese II 13 Hours3
Year Two
Semester IIIJAPN 103Japanese III3 Hours3
Semester IVJAPN 104Japanese IV3 Hours3
Year Three
Semester VLiterature and Culture Component Elective #13 Hours3
Semester VILiterature and Culture Component Elective #23 Hours3 Total Hours18
1Students are allowed opt out of JAPN coursework based on proﬁciency.
  Students should consult with the Japanese Language and Culture
Program Director to be placed in the correct starting course for the
language sequence.  Should a student opt out of  JAPN 101  and
JAPN 102 , they must take JAPN 250  and  JAPN 251  to complete Option
2 sequence.
Study in Japan 
Students minoring in Japanese are encouraged to study in Japan. Many
attend our prestigious sister Jesuit school, Sophia University in Tokyo,
for one or two semesters. Others students have studied at Kansai Gaidai
University in Osaka, and International Christian University in Tokyo. Study
abroad programs are available in many parts of Japan.
Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this program, students will be able to:
•Understand, speak, read, and write Japanese at the advanced novice
level or higher
•Employ social routines used by Japanese in daily life
•Apply their knowledge and appreciation of Japanese history, culture,
and society to understand the contexts in which contemporary
Japanese is used
•Use the language learning skills they acquire for continuing self-
directed study of Japanese
Literature in Translation Minor
Students may minor in literature in translation. The minor in literature in
translation was designed for students who wish to major in a ﬁe ld related
to literature (for example: classics, English, history or philosophy), as well

--- Page 551 ---
582  Spanish (BA)
as for science majors who are interested in doing concentrated work in a
particular area of humanities.
Knowledge of a foreign language is not required. All courses are taught
in English and cross-listed with Global and International Studies. Courses
are three semester hours each and may be applied to the literature
requirement of the Core Curriculum  (p. 1405 ).
Related Programs
Minor
•Asian Language and Literatures Minor  (p. 567)
•Italian Language and Literature Minor  (p. 577)
•Spanish Language and Literature Minor  (p. 583)
Curriculum
The requirements for the minor are six courses in literature in translation
offered by the Department of Modern Languages and Literatures, to be
chosen in consultation with the department advisor.
A maximum of four courses in any one literature will be accepted toward
the minor.
For students who qualify to take courses in the original language, a
combination of courses in the original language and in translation will be
arranged by the department.
Code Title Hours
Six Courses in LITR 18Examples include, but are not limited to:LITR 200 European MasterpiecesLITR 202European NovelLITR 204 European FilmLITR 219African FilmLITR 221 Polish AuthorsLITR 238Arabic Literature in TranslationLITR 243 South Asian LiteratureLITR 245Asian MasterpiecesLITR 264 Italian Film GenreLITR 290Classical Chinese LiteratureTotal Hours18
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of the Minor in Literature in Translation, students will be
able to:
•Develop skills of literary analysis that will allow them to understand
major topics in a range of literatures and cultures
•Trace developments over time in literary and cultural movements
•Analyze and interpret numerous literary texts in order to better
comprehend the representations of cultural identity and make cross-
cultural, intercultural connections•Establish connections between literature, ﬁlm, and history in a range
of literatures and cultures
•Attain better cultural competency
•Foster a lifelong interest and enthusiasm for cultural production in a
range of literatures and cultures
Spanish (BA)
The BA in Spanish degree program is a lively, flexible and intellectually
challenging way of developing language skills in Spanish while gaining
knowledge of the literatures and cultures of Spain, Latin America, and
of Hispanics in the United States. At Loyola, Spanish majors learn the
essential skills and techniques with which to critically read, interpret, and
write and speak about all genres of Hispanic literature and of cinema and
visual arts in Spanish. In so doing, students reﬁne their linguistic skills,
and gain awareness of the complexities of the Spanish-speaking world.
Related Programs
Minor
•Spanish Language Minor  (p. 584)
•Spanish Language and Literature Minor  (p. 583)
Combined
•Hispanic Studies (BA/MA)  (p. 1237 )
Curriculum
The Spanish program has structured both the major and minor to give
students a greater ability to shape their course of study according to their
interests.
Spanish Major Requirements 
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesSelect one of the following:6
SPAN 250 
& SPAN 251Composition & Conversation I 
and Composition & Conversation II  (for native
heritage speakers)SPAN 252 
& SPAN 253Composition & Conversation: Native Speakers 
and Advanced Composition & Conversation:
Native SpeakersSPAN 270 Introduction to Critical Analysis in Spanish 13Select one of the following:3
SPAN 271 Introduction to Iberian Literature and Culture
(Spain) 1SPAN 272Introduction to Spanish American Literature and
Culture (Latin America) 1Any six courses at the 300-level, of which one must focus exclusively
on Latin America and one must focus exclusively  on Spain18Completion and presentation of an e-portfolio, as per program
guidelinesTotal Hours30
1Prerequisite for Spanish 300-level courses
E-Portfolio Requirement
All majors are asked to complete a e-portfolio prior to graduation for
evaluative purposes. Students are encouraged to include a variety of

--- Page 552 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 583
representative assignments from their Spanish courses (syllabi, papers,
exams, media ﬁles), as well as materials from creative projects, foreign
travel, study abroad, or internships.
Students are also requested to prepare a brief (1-2 pages) personal
statement in Spanish assessing their learning experiences in th e major.
Students will be responsible for assembling, updating, revising, and
presenting their e-portfolios.
Click here  (https://www.luc.edu/modernlang/baprograms/capstonee-
portfolioontaskstreamforfrenchitalianandspanishba/ ) at the beginning of
your major for details.
For questions about the Spanish e-portfolio requirements, please contact
your assigned Spanish major advisor.
Students with prior knowledge of Spanish
Please see information regarding the placement exam  (https://
www.luc.edu/modernlang/exam.shtml/ ) before registering for a class.
Departmental Honors
Students graduating with departmental honors have a GPA of 3.5
or higher and take one Honors Tutorial, in addition to the above
requirements.
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this program, graduates will be able to:
•Demonstrate familiarity with key works of Latin American and
Peninsular literature and with the social and political environments of
present-day Latin America and Spain.
•Have the ability to discuss literature critically.
•Interpret the representation and impact of broad historical events in
Peninsular, Latin American, and Latinx culture, art, and literature.
•Read, write, and speak Spanish fluently.
•Have the ability to sustain a coherent discussion of complex ideas in
both oral and written Spanish.
•Articulate how social and cultural identities impact community
engagement and intercultural communication.
•Integrate the Jesuit principles of service, inclusion, and self-
knowledge into practice.These outcomes will be evidenced in the students' senior capstone
project (ePortfolio).
Spanish Language and Literature
Minor
The minor in Spanish Language and Literatures offers students the
opportunity to master skills of language acquisition and textual analysis
while developing multicultural awareness of the diversity inherent in
Spanish-speaking communities. Our program prepares students to think
critically, and allows them to gain knowledge of literary and cultural
expressions of Latin America, Spain, and the Latino/a and Hispanic
communities in the United States.
Related Programs
Major
•Spanish (BA)  (p. 582)
Minor
•Spanish Language Minor  (p. 584)
Combined
•Hispanic Studies (BA/MA)  (p. 1237 )
Curriculum
Requirements
The minor requires six courses in Spanish excluding SPAN 101 Spanish I
through SPAN 104 Spanish IV . Students normally take:
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesSPAN 250Composition & Conversation I3or SPAN 252Composition & Conversation: Native Speakers
SPAN 251 Composition & Conversation II 3
or SPAN 253 Advanced Composition & Conversation: Native
SpeakersSPAN 270Introduction to Critical Analysis in Spanish 13
SPAN 271 Introduction to Iberian Literature and Culture 3
or SPAN 272 Introduction to Spanish American Literature and
CultureTwo SPAN 300-Level Courses  16Total Hours18
1Students who are fluent in the language may begin the sequence
at the 270-level with the Spanish Undergraduate Program Director's
permission.  Students would be required to take two additional SPAN
300-level courses in order to meet the minimum 18 credit hours.
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Learning Outcomes
•Show proﬁciency in speaking, understanding, reading and writing
skills

--- Page 553 ---
584  Spanish Language Minor
•Develop and sustain a coherent argument in both oral and written
Spanish
•Demonstrate knowledge of content areas (literary movements,
linguistics, grammar, etc.)
•Understand the principal characteristics which deﬁne diverse
Hispanic histories and cultures
•Trace change over time in literary styles and cultural values
•Examine and interpret numerous literary texts in order to better
comprehend the representations of cultural identity and make cross-
cultural, intercultural connections
•Establish connections between literature, ﬁlm, and history in the
Spanish-speaking world
•Attain better cultural competency
•Foster a lifelong interest and enthusiasm for Spanish-speaking
cultural production
Spanish Language Minor
Loyola offers a Spanish Language Minor.  Its objectives are based
on the National Standards for Foreign Language Learning and on the
ACTFL Proﬁciency guidelines. With the introductory to intermediate level
courses required in the language minor students can expect to develop
an intermediate-high level of proﬁciency. These goals are integrated into
all individual courses as well as the Spanish program in its entirety.
Related Programs
Major
•Spanish (BA)  (p. 582)
Minor
•Spanish Language and Literature Minor  (p. 583)
Combined
•Hispanic Studies (BA/MA)  (p. 1237 )
Curriculum
Code Title HoursSix (6) SPAN Courses  118Total Hours18
1Courses will be selected by the student in consultation with the
departmental advisor. Students with no background in Spanish will
begin the sequence with  SPAN 101 Spanish I . Students with high
school or other language background will be placed in  SPAN 102
Spanish II , SPAN 103 Spanish III , or SPAN 104 Spanish IV . Course
descriptions for all SPAN courses can be found here  (p. 544).
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for the major.  Students should consult the undergraduate
program director for assistance with course selection.Course Title Hours
Year One
Semester IOne (1) SPAN course3 Hours3
Semester IIOne (1) SPAN course3 Hours3
Year Two
Semester IOne (1) SPAN course3 Hours3
Semester IIOne (1) SPAN course3 Hours3
Year Three
Semester IOne (1) SPAN course3 Hours3
Semester IIOne (1) SPAN course3 Hours3 Total Hours18
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Learning Outcomes
•Content Knowledge: Students acquire linguistic and cultural
knowledge in the beginning sequence courses that pertain to the
countries where the language is spoken. Students use the linguistic
system (grammar and vocabulary) to relate to and expand their
knowledge in reference to daily routines, university life, art, music,
travel, family relationships and medical treatments. Students will
apply these concepts to the Spanish speaking countries studied
and reflect upon their own cultural comparisons made through the
learning process.
•Communication: Our communicative teaching approach provides
the ideal basis for students to learn the language via the four
communication skills essential to proﬁciency that include
reading, writing, listening and speaking. Students will engage
in conversations, provide and obtain information and express
themselves orally in reference to society, free time activities and
everyday experiences in work and study. Students will present
information, concepts, and ideas to an audience of listeners or
readers on health, Hispanic arts, travel, job skills, environmental
issues and relevant immigration topics that inspire reflections related
to the reading passages used in the courses. Students will talk about
future plans and hypothetical situations related to the today’s society
and the Spanish speaking world, express feelings and emotions,
exchange opinions, express wishes and recommendations.
•Critical Thinking and Analysis: The move from using the linguistic
system in basic conversation towards reading, analyzing and
interpreting written texts will help develop more formal competency

--- Page 554 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 585
at the intermediate level. Students will gain interpretive and analytic
skills through the close readings of short stories, articles, poems and
songs to acquire cultural knowledge of important historical concepts,
social justice issues, cultural traditions and overall relevant themes
in many Spanish speaking countries. Students will improve writing
skills in Spanish through attention to the principles and techniques of
composition, and through the editing of their own work.
•Civic engagement and study abroad opportunities: Students
acquire intercultural competency which includes an awareness and
appreciation of diverse Hispanic cultures and communities. Students
will engage with social and environmental issues via audio-visual
resources and study abroad opportunities. Students will research and
lead class discussions on cultural topics related to politics, history,
geography, literature and ﬁlms.
Neuroscience
The Interdisciplinary Neuroscience Majors
and Minor
The Interdisciplinary Neuroscience Majors and Minor provide students
with an unusual flexibility. For students committed to in-depth
neuroscience education, they can major in either of two tracks: a
cognitive/behavioral track that emphasizes the outcome of neural
processing and circuit level mechanisms supporting cognition and
behavior, and a molecular/cellular track that emphasizes the genetic,
biochemical, and cell biological underpinnings of the development and
function of the nervous system. Students who wish to focus on another
area of study, but gain substantial exposure to the ﬁeld of neuroscience,
may minor in neuroscience.
For additional information, please contact:
•Dr. Eric W. Gobel,  egobel@luc.edu  Director, Cognitive/Behavioral
Neuroscience
•Dr. Bill Rochlin,  wrochli@luc.edu  Director, Molecular/Cellular
Neuroscience
Coursework
All three options require three core courses in neuroscience
fundamentals: Introduction to Neuroscience (NEUR 101), Neurobiology
(BIOL 362), and Behavioral and Cognitive Neuroscience (PSYC 382/
BIOL 284). After completing these courses, students may choose
among numerous upper-level lecture and lab courses that span the
ﬁeld. Neuroscience majors must also complete basic science and math
foundation courses, 2-3 track-speciﬁc courses, and a track-speciﬁc
capstone course.
Undergraduate Research
In addition, there are currently 20 neuroscience faculty conducting
research on the LUC Lake Shore Campus  (https://www.luc.edu/
neuroscience/aboutus/facultydirectoryandresearch/ ), providing
opportunities for independent undergraduate research. Students are
also welcome to arrange research internships with faculty at the Stritch
School of Medicine  (https://www.luc.edu/stritch/pharmacology/people/
faculty/ ) or at other research institutions in the Chicago area.
Objectives for Neuroscience Coursework
Because the nervous system is the organ for behavior, neuroscience
cuts across traditional ﬁelds in the biological and behavioral sciences.
Owing to this breadth, we have designed two major tracks for studentswho wish to focus on neuroscience in their course of study at LUC.
Completing either of these options will prepare students well for a
variety of careers, including but not limited to medicine and life sciences
research, particularly in neuroscience-related ﬁelds. Both options require
at least two semesters of courses in biology, chemistry, and physics.
Lecture Course Objectives
Both of the majors require three courses in neuroscience fundamentals:
NEUR 101  (https://catalog.luc.edu/search/?P=NEUR%20101 )
Introduction to Neuroscience,  BIOL 362  (https://catalog.luc.edu/
search/?P=BIOL%20362 ) Neurobiology  (which stresses cellular and
electrophysiological mechanisms of neural function), and  PSYC 382
(https://catalog.luc.edu/search/?P=PSYC%20382 )/BIOL 284  (https://
catalog.luc.edu/search/?P=BIOL%20284 ) Behavioral and Cognitive
Neuroscience  (which stresses the neural substrates underlying mental
processing and behavior).  After completing this sequence, majors
can design their own course of study within cognitive/behavioral or
molecular/cellular neuroscience.  There is some overlap in the list of
lecture courses from which students may choose to complete their
elective requirements, but there is also great diversity in the topics that
are available in each major track.
Lab Course Objectives
Aside from ﬁrst-year labs in chemistry and biology, and organic chemistry
lab for molecular/cellular neuroscience majors, neuroscience majors
choose their own lab experiences. Because the nervous system is
cellular, computational, and a control center, the range of techniques
that are useful is extremely broad, from cellular/molecular to behavioral,
and the student can decide which techniques will be most helpful
in answering the questions they want to address. Students who are
interested in conducting independent neuroscience research have several
neuroscience labs from which to choose, and may also seek permission
to carry out a neuroscience-relevant project in a lab that is not focused on
neuroscience. Independent research is the best preparation for doctoral
programs, and is also regarded highly by medical, dental and other life
science professional schools. For this reason, getting an independent
research position in a lab is competitive.
Seminar Courses
There are three seminar style courses available to neuroscience
undergraduates.  In these courses, students tackle the primary literature
and react to seminars given by neuroscientists on their research. 
Cognitive/Behavioral Neuroscience majors and Neuroscience minors
are required (and Molecular/Cellular Neuroscience majors are invited)
to take the 1-credit hour  NEUR 300  (https://catalog.luc.edu/search/?
P=NEUR%20300 ) Seminar in Neuroscience  course, providing basic
exposure to the primary literature and a wide range of research talks.
  Both major tracks culminate with a required capstone seminar class,
which immerses the students in the primary literature and encourages
development of critical thinking and presentation skills.
Undergraduate Programs
•Cognitive and Behavioral Neuroscience (BS)  (p. 586)
•Molecular and Cellular Neuroscience (BS)  (p. 589)
•Neuroscience Minor  (p. 592)
Neuroscience Department Policies
Double-Dipping with Other Majors/Minors
For students in either track of the Neuroscience Major or the
Neuroscience Minor, any courses taken that count toward their

--- Page 555 ---
586  Cognitive and Behavioral Neuroscience (BS)
Neuroscience Major/Minor may also count toward the following majors
and minors:
•BS in Biology (BIOL-BS)  (p. 299)
•BS in Biology with Ecology Emphasis (BIOE-BS)  (p. 304)
•BS in Biology with Molecular Emphasis (BIOM-BS)  (p. 308)
•BS in Psychology (PSYC-BS)  (p. 650)
•Minor in Biology (BIOL-MINR)  (p. 302)
•Minor in Psychology (PSYC-MINR)  (p. 653)
Students may not double-major in both tracks of the Neuroscience Major
or combine the Neuroscience Major with the Neuroscience Minor.  For all
other majors/minors, the CAS Academic Council's double-dipping policy
(p. 55) shall apply.
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Neuroscience (NEUR)
NEUR 101   Introduction to Neuroscience   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  None; Recommended: BIOL 101 and PSYC 101   
This course will introduce students to basic concepts and the variety
of topics in the ﬁeld of neuroscience, including neuroanatomy (gross
and cellular), physiology, neural basis of behavior, malfunctions due
to disease and injury, and methods used to study these areas laying a
foundation for advanced coursework in neuroscience.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Course equivalencies:  X-BIOL 202/PSYC202/NEUR 101   
Outcomes:
Knowledge of the organization of the nervous system, cellular events that
underlie emotions, learning, and behavior, and awareness of classical and
modern methods for advancing the ﬁeld
NEUR 300   Seminar in Neuroscience   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  NEUR 101 with grade of C- or better   
The seminar introduces students to the interdisciplinary nature of
modern neuroscience with an emphasis on the various neuroscience
research activities that take place at Loyola University Chicago, and
reviews current neuroscience research topics. NEUR 300 is cross-listed
with BIOL 303.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Course equivalencies:  X-BIOL303/NEUR300   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of the interdisciplinary and
multidisciplinary nature of modern neuroscience, and the research
questions and experimental approaches used at the Lakeshore and
Medical Center campuses; Students will complete one midterm ess ay
and one ﬁnal essay exam that will reflect their understanding of the
topics discussed in the seminarsNEUR 301   Laboratory in Neuroscience I   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  NEUR 101, BIOL 251; and students must be either
a Molecular/Cellular Neuroscience Major, a Cognitive/Behavioral
Neuroscience major, or a Neuroscience Minor   
Students will be trained in various anatomical, physiological, behavioral,
and neurobiological modeling techniques used to study the nervous
system and the brain in the laboratory. This course is cross-listed as
NEUR 301 & PSYC 388.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Course equivalencies:  X-NEUR301/PSYC388/BIOL373   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of several research designs and
methodologies of use in neuroscience research and will gain experience
with basic neuroscience laboratory techniques
NEUR 302   Laboratory in Neuroscience II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  NEUR 301   
Students will receive additional training and experience in specialized
laboratory methods and techniques used by Loyola faculty in their
Neuroscience research. This experience will help prepare them to
contribute creatively to neuroscience research. Students will be assessed
as to the quality of 3 items: 1) a written proposal for the independent
research project; 2) a 'meeting quality' scientiﬁc poster; and 3) a written
'publication quality' scientiﬁc paper summarizing the work done for the
independent research project.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Course equivalencies:  X-BIOL374/NEUR302/PSYC389   
Outcomes:
Students will have the opportunity to conduct independent research
projects in faculty and student laboratories
Cognitive and Behavioral
Neuroscience (BS)
The B.S. in Cognitive/Behavioral Neuroscience focuses on the neural
substrates of cognitive processes and behavior, utilizing methods from
cognitive psychology, behavioral analysis, psychobiology, and computer
science to account for empirical data about the brain.
Our neuroscience majors are designed to provide both breadth and depth
to the neuroscience knowledge base of our students, and afford ample
opportunities for developing creative and critical thinking skills needed to
advance neuroscience (or any other life science ﬁeld).
Related Programs
Major
•Molecular and Cellular Neuroscience (BS)  (p. 589)
Minor
•Neuroscience Minor  (p. 592)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Basic Science and Math FoundationsBIOL 101 
& BIOL 111General Biology I 
and General Biology I Lab4
BIOL 102 
& BIOL 112General Biology II 
and General Biology II Lab4BIOL 251Cell Biology3

--- Page 556 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 587
BIOL 252 Cell Biology Laboratory 1
or BIOL 283 Genetics LaboratoryBIOL 282Genetics3
BIOL 335 /
STAT 335Intro to Biostatistics 3
or PSYC 304 StatisticsMATH 131Applied Calculus I3-4or MATH 161Calculus I
PSYC 101 General Psychology 3Select one of the following three sets of classes:4
CHEM 101 
& CHEM 111General Chemistry A Lecture/Discussion 
and General Chemistry Lab ACHEM 105Chemical PrinciplesCHEM 160 
& CHEM 161Chemical Structure and Properties 
and Chemical Structure and Properties LaboratorySelect one of the following three sets of classes:4
CHEM 102 
& CHEM 112General Chemistry B Lecture/Discussion 
and General Chemistry Lab BCHEM 106Basic Inorganic ChemistryCHEM 180 
& CHEM 181Chemical Reactivity I 
and Chemical Reactivity I LabSelect one of the following three sets of classes:4
PHYS 111 
& 111LCollege Physics I Lec / Dis 
and College Physics Laboratory IPHYS 121 
& PHYS 111LCollege Physics I with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion 
and College Physics Laboratory IPHYS 125 
& 125LGeneral Physics I Lec/Dis 
and General Physics Laboratory ISelect one of the following three sets of classes:4
PHYS 112 
& 112LCollege Physics II Lec/Disc 
and College Physics Lab IIPHYS 122 
& PHYS 112LCollege Physics II with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion 
and College Physics Lab IIPHYS 126 
& 126L  
& 126FGeneral Physics II Lec/Dis 
and General Physics Laboratory II  
and Freshman ProjectsNeuroscience Foundations CoursesNEUR 101 Introduction to Neuroscience 3BIOL 362Neurobiology3
PSYC 382 /
BIOL 284Behavorial and Cognitive Neuroscience 3Cognitive/Behavioral Neuroscience TrackCognitive/Behavioral Neuroscience Specialty Areas CoursesNEUR 300 /
BIOL 303Seminar in Neuroscience1
PSYC 306 Research Methods in Psychology 3Select one of the following Computer Science options:3
COMP 150 Introduction to ComputingCOMP 170Introduction to Object-Oriented ProgrammingCOMP 180 Computing and Data Analysis for the SciencesDSCI 101Fundamentals of Modern Data Science with RCognitive/Behavioral Neuroscience Lecture ElectivesSelect three of the following:9BIOL 320 Animal BehaviorBIOL 351Sleep/Circadian RhythmsBIOL 352 Neurobiology of Feeding in Health and DiseaseBIOL 357Neural Disease, Degeneration, and RegenerationBIOL 395 Special Topics in Biology (select topics related to
neuroscience)PSYC 240 /
BIOL 240Psychology-Biology of PerceptionPSYC 251 Learning and MemoryPSYC 332Affective NeurosciencePSYC 350 Developmental Cognitive NeurosciencePSYC 352NeuropsychologyPSYC 355 /
PHIL 355NeuroethicsPSYC 378Drugs and BehaviorPSYC 383 /
COMP 386Methods in Computational NeuroscienceCognitive/Behavioral Neuroscience Lab ElectivesSelect two of the following: 6-7BIOL 395LSpecial Topics Laboratory (select topics related to
neuroscience)NEUR 301 /
BIOL 373 /
PSYC 388Laboratory in Neuroscience IPSYC 311 /
BIOL 313Lab in PsychobiologyPSYC 312 Lab in Cognitive NeurosciencePSYC 313Lab in Behavioral NeurosciencePSYC 314 Lab in Experimental Psychology: CognitionPSYC 316Lab in Experimental Psychology: Sense &
PerceptionPSYC 384 /
COMP 389Computational Modeling of the BrainMay include one of the following independent research options:BIOL 396 Research (with a Cognitive/Behavioral focus)PSYC 370Psychology Honors Research (with a Cognitive/
Behavioral focus; PSYC 369 is pre-req)PSYC 397 Independent Research (with a Cognitive/
Behavioral focus)Cognitive/Behavioral Neuroscience CapstonePSYC 387Seminar in Behavorial and Cognitive
Neurosciences3Total Hours74-76
Undergraduate Research
Neuroscience students have numerous opportunities to conduct
scientiﬁc research in the labs of our  neuroscience-afﬁliated faculty
at Loyola's Lake Shore Campus  (https://www.luc.edu/neuroscience/
aboutus/facultydirectoryandresearch/#den422313 ), in the labs of other
faculty on any of Loyola's campuses, or at other institutions in the
Chicago area. Depending on the applicability of the research project to
the student's Neuroscience Major or Minor, independent research may be
able to qualify for course credit as one of the required specialty labs (see
below).

--- Page 557 ---
588  Cognitive and Behavioral Neuroscience (BS)
Cognitive/Behavioral Neuroscience Majors Research
Credit
Cognitive/Behavioral Neuroscience (NRCB) majors can earn specialty
lab credit for conducting  independent research that has a neuroscience
or cognitive/behavioral focus  in labs within the psychology or biology
departments. Your research project must be approved by the NRCB
Director for NRCB credit through one of the 3-credit courses below:
•PSYC 397 Independent Research  (relevant research with faculty in
Psychology)
•PSYC 369 Psychology Honors Readings /PSYC 370 Psychology
Honors Research  (relevant research with faculty in Psychology for
NRCB credit; additionally must use neuroscientiﬁc technique if desire
NRCB Honors)
•BIOL 396 Research  (relevant research with faculty in Biology)
Please contact the NRCB Director for questions about earning credit
from cognitive/behavioral or neuroscience-related research in other
departments (e.g., computer science, engineering, chemistry) or at other
institutions.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
Course Title Hours
Freshman
Fall
BIOL 101 General Biology I 3BIOL 111General Biology I Lab1
CHEM 160 Chemical Structure and Properties 3CHEM 161Chemical Structure and Properties
Laboratory1
PSYC 101 General Psychology 3MATH 131Applied Calculus I3 Hours14
SpringBIOL 102General Biology II3
BIOL 112 General Biology II Lab 1CHEM 180Chemical Reactivity I3
CHEM 181 Chemical Reactivity I Lab 1NEUR 101Introduction to Neuroscience3 Hours11
Sophomore
FallPHYS 111College Physics I Lec / Dis3
PHYS 111L College Physics Laboratory I 1BIOL 251Cell Biology3
NEUR 300 Seminar in Neuroscience 1PSYC 304Statistics3 Hours11
SpringPHYS 112College Physics II Lec/Disc3
PHYS 112L College Physics Lab II 1BIOL 282Genetics3
BIOL 283 
or BIOL 252Genetics Laboratory 
or Cell Biology Laboratory1PSYC 306Research Methods in Psychology ( or
Computer Science Choice )3 Hours11
Junior
FallPSYC 382Behavorial and Cognitive Neuroscience3
COMP 150 
or COMP 170 
or COMP 180 
or DSCI 101Introduction to Computing 
or Introduction to Object-Oriented
Programming 
or Computing and Data Analysis for the
Sciences 
or Fundamentals of Modern Data
Science with R3
Specialty Lecture3 Hours9
SpringBIOL 362Neurobiology3Specialty Lecture3 Hours6
Senior
Fall
Specialty Lecture 3Specialty Lab3-4 Hours6-7
SpringPSYC 387Seminar in Behavorial and Cognitive
Neurosciences3Specialty Lab3 Hours6 Total Hours74-75
Course Objectives
Because the nervous system is the organ for behavior, neuroscience
cuts across traditional ﬁelds in the biological and behavioral sciences.
Owing to this breadth, we have designed two major tracks for students
who wish to focus on neuroscience in their course of study at LUC.
Completing either of these options will prepare students well for a
variety of careers, including but not limited to medicine and life sciences
research, particularly in neuroscience-related ﬁelds. Both options require
at least two semesters of courses in biology, chemistry, and physics.
Lecture Course Objectives
Both of the majors require three courses in neuroscience
fundamentals:  NEUR 101  (https://catalog.luc.edu/search/?P=NEUR
%20101 ) Introduction to Neuroscience , BIOL 362  (https://catalog.luc.edu/
search/?P=BIOL%20362 ) Neurobiology  (which stresses cellular and
electrophysiological mechanisms of neural function), and PSYC 382
(https://catalog.luc.edu/search/?P=PSYC%20382 )/BIOL 284  (https://
catalog.luc.edu/search/?P=BIOL%20284 ) Behavioral and Cognitive
Neuroscience  (which stresses the neural substrates underlying mental
processing and behavior).  After completing this sequence, majors
can design their own course of study within cognitive/behavioral or
molecular/cellular neuroscience.  There is some overlap in the list of
lecture courses from which students may choose to complete their
elective requirements, but there is also great diversity in the topics that
are available in each major track.

--- Page 558 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 589
Lab Course Objectives
Aside from ﬁrst-year labs in chemistry and biology, and organic chemistry
lab for molecular/cellular neuroscience majors, neuroscience majors
choose their own lab experiences. Because the nervous system is
cellular, computational, and a control center, the range of techniques
that are useful is extremely broad, from cellular/molecular to behavioral,
and the student can decide which techniques will be most helpful
in answering the questions they want to address. Students who are
interested in conducting independent neuroscience research have several
neuroscience labs from which to choose, and may also seek permission
to carry out a neuroscience-relevant project in a lab that is not focused on
neuroscience. Independent research is the best preparation for doctoral
programs, and is also regarded highly by medical, dental and other life
science professional schools. For this reason, getting an independent
research position in a lab is competitive.
Seminar Courses
There are three seminar style courses available to neuroscience
undergraduates.  In these courses, students tackle the primary literature
and react to seminars given by neuroscientists on their research. 
Cognitive/Behavioral Neuroscience majors are required to take the
1-credit hour  NEUR 300  (https://catalog.luc.edu/search/?P=NEUR
%20300 ) Seminar in Neuroscience  course, providing basic exposure
to the primary literature and a wide range of research talks.  Both
major tracks culminate with a required capstone seminar class, which
immerses the students in the primary literature and encourages
development of critical thinking and presentation skills.
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
By the end of this program of study, students will be able to:
•functional neuroanatomy at the gross, cellular, and subcellular levels.
[Neuroanatomy]
•electrochemical signaling and information processing in the nervous
system. [Neurophysiology]
•the general methodological approaches, applications, strengths, and
weaknesses of the major laboratory and computational techniques
used in the study of the nervous system. [Neuroscience Methods]
•the neural bases of sensory processing and behavior (e.g., movement,
appetitive behaviors, biological rhythms). [Sensory/Behavior]•the neural bases of cognitive and affective aspects of mental life
(e.g., memory, attention, executive function, language, emotion).
[Cognitive/Affective]
•genetic, environmental, and experiential influences on neural
development and neuroplasticity. [Neural Development/Plasticity]
•the relationships between neurological and psychiatric disorders
(e.g., Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s disease, schizophrenia,
depression), their underlying neuropathology, and common
treatments. [Clinical Disorders]
•read, understand, critically evaluate, and draw appropriate
conclusions from reports of neuroscientiﬁc investigations. [Critical
Analysis]
•effectively communicate ﬁndings from neuroscience research studies
to both scientiﬁc and nonscientiﬁc audiences in multiple formats.
[Scientiﬁc Communication]
•formulate scientiﬁc questions, construct testable hypotheses, and
design scientiﬁc investigations that contribute to neuroscience.
[Research Design]
•engage in scientiﬁc investigations using appropriate neuroscientiﬁc
laboratory or computational techniques, statistically analyze the
data, and interpret the ﬁndings. [Laboratory Skills & Inquiry/Statistical
Analysis]
•develop awareness of the philosophical, moral, and ethical issues
raised by neuroscience and influences of neuroscience on other ﬁelds
such as medicine, education, and social sciences. [Science & Society]
Molecular and Cellular Neuroscience
(BS)
The B.S. in Molecular/Cellular Neuroscience focuses on the genetic,
biochemical, and electrophysiological underpinnings of the development,
function, plasticity, pathology, and repair of the nervous system.
Our neuroscience majors are designed to provide both breadth and depth
to the neuroscience knowledge base of our students, and afford ample
opportunities for developing creative and critical thinking skills needed to
advance neuroscience (or any other life science ﬁeld).
Related Programs
Major
•Cognitive and Behavioral Neuroscience (BS)  (p. 586)
Minor
•Neuroscience Minor  (p. 592)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Basic Science and Math FoundationsBIOL 101 
& BIOL 111General Biology I 
and General Biology I Lab4
BIOL 102 
& BIOL 112General Biology II 
and General Biology II Lab4BIOL 251Cell Biology3
BIOL 252 Cell Biology Laboratory 1
or BIOL 283 Genetics LaboratoryBIOL 282Genetics3

--- Page 559 ---
590  Molecular and Cellular Neuroscience (BS)
BIOL 335 /
STAT 335Intro to Biostatistics 3
or PSYC 304 StatisticsSelect one of the following three sets of classes:4
CHEM 101 
& CHEM 111General Chemistry A Lecture/Discussion 
and General Chemistry Lab ACHEM 105Chemical PrinciplesCHEM 160 
& CHEM 161Chemical Structure and Properties 
and Chemical Structure and Properties LaboratorySelect one of the following three Lecture courses:3-4
CHEM 180 Chemical Reactivity ICHEM 221Organic Chemistry I Lec/DiscCHEM 223 Organic Chemistry A Lec/DiscSelect one of the following Lab courses:1
CHEM 112 General Chemistry Lab BCHEM 181Chemical Reactivity I LabMATH 131 Applied Calculus I 3-4
or MATH 161 Calculus ISelect one of the following three sets of classes:4
PHYS 111 
& 111LCollege Physics I Lec / Dis 
and College Physics Laboratory IPHYS 121 
& PHYS 111LCollege Physics I with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion 
and College Physics Laboratory IPHYS 125 
& 125LGeneral Physics I Lec/Dis 
and General Physics Laboratory ISelect one of the following three sets of classes:4
PHYS 112 
& 112LCollege Physics II Lec/Disc 
and College Physics Lab IIPHYS 122 
& PHYS 112LCollege Physics II with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion 
and College Physics Lab IIPHYS 126 
& 126L  
& 126FGeneral Physics II Lec/Dis 
and General Physics Laboratory II  
and Freshman ProjectsPSYC 101General Psychology3
Neuroscience Foundations CoursesBIOL 362Neurobiology3
NEUR 101 Introduction to Neuroscience 3PSYC 382 /
BIOL 284Behavorial and Cognitive Neuroscience3
Molecular/Cellular Neuroscience TrackMolecular/Cellular Neuroscience Specialty Area CoursesOne additional year of Chemistry lectures:Select one of the following:3-4
CHEM 222 Organic Chemistry II Lec/DiscCHEM 224Organic Chemistry B Lec/DiscCHEM 240 Chemical Reactivity IISelect one of the following:3-4
CHEM 102 General Chemistry B Lecture/DiscussionCHEM 106Basic Inorganic ChemistryCHEM 260 Quantitative Methods in ChemistryMolecular/Cellular Neuroscience Lecture ElectivesSelect three of the following: 7-9BIOL 307Biology of Stem CellsBIOL 351 Sleep/Circadian RhythmsBIOL 352Neurobiology of Feeding in Health and DiseaseBIOL 357 Neural Disease, Degeneration, and RegenerationBIOL 358Developmental NeurobiologyBIOL 381 EpigeneticsBIOL 382Molecular GeneticsBIOL 395 Special Topics in Biology (select topics related to
neuroscience)CHEM 361 /
BIOL 366Principles of Biochemistryor CHEM 370Biochemistry I
NEUR 300 Seminar in NeurosciencePSYC 240 /
BIOL 240Psychology-Biology of PerceptionPSYC 378 Drugs and BehaviorPSYC 383 /
COMP 386Methods in Computational NeuroscienceMolecular/Cellular Neuroscience Lab ElectivesSelect two of the following:3-8
BIOL 252 Cell Biology Laboratory
or BIOL 283 Genetics LaboratoryBIOL 315Introductory Immunology Lec/LabBIOL 366L Cell Physiology & Biochemistry Lab
or CHEM 372 Biochemistry Laboratory IBIOL 367BioimagingBIOL 390 Molecular Biology LaboratoryBIOL 395LSpecial Topics Laboratory (select topics related to
neuroscience)NEUR 301 /
BIOL 373 /
PSYC 388Laboratory in Neuroscience IPSYC 311 /
BIOL 313Lab in Psychobiologyor PSYC 316Lab in Experimental Psychology: Sense & Perception
PSYC 384 /
COMP 389Computational Modeling of the BrainMay include one of the following independent research options:BIOL 396 Research (with a Molecular/Cellular focus)BIOL 398Internship in Biology (with a Molecular/Cellular
focus)Molecular/Cellular Neuroscience CapstoneBIOL 376Seminar in Molecular/Cellular Neuroscience3or BIOL 358Developmental NeurobiologyTotal Hours68
Undergraduate Research
Neuroscience students have numerous opportunities to conduct
scientiﬁc research in the labs of our  neuroscience-afﬁliated faculty
at Loyola's Lake Shore Campus  (https://www.luc.edu/neuroscience/
aboutus/facultydirectoryandresearch/#den422313 ), in the labs of other
faculty on any of Loyola's campuses, or at other institutions in the
Chicago area. Depending on the applicability of the research project to
the student's Neuroscience Major or Minor, independent research may be

--- Page 560 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 591
able to qualify for course credit as one of the required specialty labs (see
below).
Molecular/Cellular Neuroscience Majors Research Credit
Molecular/Cellular Neuroscience (NRMC) majors can earn specialty lab
credit for conducting  independent research that has a molecular/cellular
focus  in labs within the biology department or at an appropriate external
internship site. Please see the  Specialty lab credit for independent
research--NRMC document on the Neuroscience program website
(https://www.luc.edu/neuroscience/undergraduateresearch/ ) for a more
thorough explanation of earning NRMC credit through one of the 3-credit
courses below:
•BIOL 396 Research  (relevant research with faculty in Biology)
•BIOL 398 Internship in Biology  (relevant research at an external site)
Please contact the NRMC Director for questions about earning credit
from molecular/cellular or neuroscience-related research in other
departments (e.g., chemistry, psychology).
Suggested Sequence of Courses
Course Title Hours
Freshman
Fall
BIOL 101 General Biology I 3BIOL 111General Biology I Lab1
CHEM 160 Chemical Structure and Properties 3CHEM 161Chemical Structure and Properties
Laboratory1
PSYC 101 General Psychology 3MATH 131Applied Calculus I3 Hours14
SpringBIOL 102General Biology II3
BIOL 112 General Biology II Lab 1CHEM 180Chemical Reactivity I3
CHEM 181 Chemical Reactivity I Lab 1NEUR 101Introduction to Neuroscience3 Hours11
Sophomore
FallPHYS 111College Physics I Lec / Dis3
PHYS 111L College Physics Laboratory I 1BIOL 251Cell Biology3CHEM 240Chemical Reactivity II3 Hours10
Spring
PHYS 112 College Physics II Lec/Disc 3PHYS 112LCollege Physics Lab II1
BIOL 282 Genetics 3CHEM 260Quantitative Methods in Chemistry3BIOL 252 
or BIOL 283Cell Biology Laboratory 
or Genetics Laboratory1 Hours11Junior
Fall
BIOL 362 Neurobiology 3STAT 335 / BIOL 335 
or PSYC 304Introduction to Biostatistics 
or Statistics3Specialty Lecture1-3 Hours7
Spring
PSYC 382 Behavorial and Cognitive Neuroscience 3Specialty Lecture1-3 Hours4
Senior
FallSpecialty Lecture3Specialty Lab3-4 Hours6
Spring
BIOL 376 
or BIOL 358Seminar in Molecular/Cellular
Neuroscience 
or Developmental Neurobiology3Specialty Lab2-3 Hours5 Total Hours68
Course Objectives
Because the nervous system is the organ for behavior, neuroscience
cuts across traditional ﬁelds in the biological and behavioral sciences.
Owing to this breadth, we have designed two major tracks  for students
who wish to focus on neuroscience in their course of study at LUC.
Completing either of these options will prepare students well for a
variety of careers, including but not limited to medicine and life sciences
research, particularly in neuroscience-related ﬁelds. Both options require
at least two semesters of courses in biology, chemistry, and physics.
Lecture Course Objectives
Both of the majors require three courses in neuroscience
fundamentals:  NEUR 101  (https://catalog.luc.edu/search/?P=NEUR
%20101 ) Introduction to Neuroscience , BIOL 362  (https://catalog.luc.edu/
search/?P=BIOL%20362 ) Neurobiology  (which stresses cellular and
electrophysiological mechanisms of neural function), and PSYC 382
(https://catalog.luc.edu/search/?P=PSYC%20382 )/BIOL 284  (https://
catalog.luc.edu/search/?P=BIOL%20284 ) Behavioral and Cognitive
Neuroscience  (which stresses the neural substrates underlying mental
processing and behavior).  After completing this sequence, majors
can design their own course of study within cognitive/behavioral or
molecular/cellular neuroscience. There is some overlap in the list of
lecture courses from which students may choose to complete their
elective requirements, but there is also great diversity in the topics that
are available in each major track.
Lab Course Objectives
Aside from ﬁrst-year labs in chemistry and biology, and organic chemistry
lab for molecular/cellular neuroscience majors, neuroscience majors
choose their own lab experiences. Because the nervous system is
cellular, computational, and a control center, the range of techniques
that are useful is extremely broad, from cellular/molecular to behavioral,
and the student can decide which techniques will be most helpful
in answering the questions they want to address. Students who are

--- Page 561 ---
592  Neuroscience Minor
interested in conducting independent neuroscience research have several
neuroscience labs from which to choose, and may also seek permission
to carry out a neuroscience-relevant project in a lab that is not focused on
neuroscience. Independent research is the best preparation for doctoral
programs, and is also regarded highly by medical, dental and other life
science professional schools. For this reason, getting an independent
research position in a lab is competitive.
Seminar Courses
There are three seminar style courses available to neuroscience
undergraduates. In these courses, students tackle the primary literature
and react to seminars given by neuroscientists on their research.
  Molecular/Cellular Neuroscience majors are invited to take the 1
credit hour  NEUR 300  (https://catalog.luc.edu/search/?P=NEUR
%20300 ) Seminar in Neuroscience  course, providing basic exposure
to the primary literature and a wide range of research talks. Both
major tracks culminate with a required capstone seminar class, which
immerses the students in the primary literature and encourages
development of critical thinking and presentation skills.
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
By the end of this program of study, students will be able to:
•functional neuroanatomy at the gross, cellular, and subcellular levels.
[Neuroanatomy]
•electrochemical signaling and information processing in the nervous
system. [Neurophysiology]
•the general methodological approaches, applications, strengths, and
weaknesses of the major laboratory and computational techniques
used in the study of the nervous system. [Neuroscience Methods]
•the neural bases of sensory processing and behavior (e.g., movement,
appetitive behaviors, biological rhythms). [Sensory/Behavior]
•the neural bases of cognitive and affective aspects of mental life
(e.g., memory, attention, executive function, language, emotion).
[Cognitive/Affective]
•genetic, environmental, and experiential influences on neural
development and neuroplasticity. [Neural Development/Plasticity]
•the relationships between neurological and psychiatric disorders
(e.g., Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s disease, schizophrenia,
depression), their underlying neuropathology, and common
treatments. [Clinical Disorders]•read, understand, critically evaluate, and draw appropriate
conclusions from reports of neuroscientiﬁc investigations. [Critical
Analysis]
•effectively communicate ﬁndings from neuroscience research studies
to both scientiﬁc and nonscientiﬁc audiences in multiple formats.
[Scientiﬁc Communication]
•formulate scientiﬁc questions, construct testable hypotheses, and
design scientiﬁc investigations that contribute to neuroscience.
[Research Design]
•engage in scientiﬁc investigations using appropriate neuroscientiﬁc
laboratory or computational techniques, statistically analyze the
data, and interpret the ﬁndings. [Laboratory Skills & Inquiry/Statistical
Analysis]
•develop awareness of the philosophical, moral, and ethical issues
raised by neuroscience and influences of neuroscience on other ﬁelds
such as medicine, education, and social sciences. [Science & Society]
Neuroscience Minor
The interdisciplinary Minor in Neuroscience requires seven courses
(17-20 credit hours), including four required courses (three foundational
lecture courses and one seminar), at least two neuroscience lab courses,
and one additional neuroscience lecture or lab course.
Related Programs
Major
•Cognitive and Behavioral Neuroscience (BS)  (p. 586)
•Molecular and Cellular Neuroscience (BS)  (p. 589)
Minor
•Psychology Minor  (p. 653)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Required Interdisciplinary Neuroscience CoursesBIOL 362Neurobiology3
NEUR 101 Introduction to Neuroscience 13NEUR 300Seminar in Neuroscience 21
PSYC 382 /
BIOL 284Behavorial and Cognitive Neuroscience 3Required Laboratory ExperienceSelect two of the following: 4-8BIOL 366LCell Physiology & Biochemistry LabBIOL 373 /
NEUR 301 /
PSYC 388Laboratory in Neuroscience IBIOL 390Molecular Biology LaboratoryBIOL 395L Special Topics Laboratory (select topics related to
neuroscience)PSYC 311 /
BIOL 313Lab in PsychobiologyPSYC 312 Lab in Cognitive NeurosciencePSYC 313Lab in Behavioral NeurosciencePSYC 314 Lab in Experimental Psychology: CognitionPSYC 316Lab in Experimental Psychology: Sense &
Perception

--- Page 562 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 593
PSYC 384 /
COMP 389Computational Modeling of the BrainMay include one of the following independent research options:BIOL 396 Research (with a Molecular/Cellular or Cognitive/
Behavioral focus)PSYC 370Psychology Honors Research (with a Cognitive/
Behavioral focus; PSYC 369 is pre-req)PSYC 397 Independent Research (with a Cognitive/
Behavioral focus)ElectivesSelect one of the following lectures or an additional lab course: 3BIOL 320Animal BehaviorBIOL 351 Sleep/Circadian RhythmsBIOL 352Neurobiology of Feeding in Health and DiseaseBIOL 357 Neural Disease, Degeneration, and RegenerationBIOL 358Developmental NeurobiologyBIOL 395 Special Topics in Biology (select topics related to
neuroscience)PSYC 240 /
BIOL 240Psychology-Biology of PerceptionPSYC 251 Learning and MemoryPSYC 332Affective NeurosciencePSYC 350 Developmental Cognitive NeurosciencePSYC 352NeuropsychologyPSYC 378 Drugs and BehaviorPSYC 383 /
COMP 386Methods in Computational NeuroscienceTotal Hours17-21
1Note: NEUR 101  was formerly BIOL 202/PSYC 202.
2Neuroscience minors enrolled in independent research in Biology or
Psychology with a neuroscientist are not required to take NEUR 300 .
Pre-Requisite Coursework for Required
Courses
Due to pre-requisite requirements for required courses, you will need to
take at least the following courses (20-22 credits) in addition to the seven
courses that are part of the Neuroscience Minor:
•PSYC 101  (3 credits)
•One year of Biology (8 credits): BIOL 101  with  BIOL 111  and
BIOL 102  with  BIOL 112
•One year of Chemistry (6-8 credits): ( CHEM 160  and CHEM 180 )
OR ( CHEM 101  with CHEM 111  and CHEM 102  with CHEM 112 ) OR
(CHEM 105 )
•BIOL 251  (3 credits)
•Any additional pre-requisites required for the additional three
specialty neuroscience labs/lectures
Students should always validate the pre-reqs in the LOCUS catalog, as
they can depend on the student's major.
Undergraduate Research
Neuroscience students have numerous opportunities to conduct
scientiﬁc research in the labs of our  neuroscience-afﬁliated faculty
at Loyola's Lake Shore Campus  (https://www.luc.edu/neuroscience/aboutus/facultydirectoryandresearch/#den422313 ), in the labs of other
faculty on any of Loyola's campuses, or at other institutions in the
Chicago area. Depending on the applicability of the research project to
the student's Neuroscience Major or Minor, independent research may be
able to qualify for course credit as one of the required specialty labs (see
below).
Neuroscience Minor Research Credit
Neuroscience minors can earn NRSC specialty lab credit for conducting
independent research that has a neuroscience, cognitive/behavioral,
or molecular/cellular focus  in labs within the psychology or biology
departments or at an appropriate external internship site. Your research
project must be approved by the NRSC Co-Directors for NRSC credit
through one of the 3-credit courses below:
•BIOL 396 Research  (relevant research with faculty in Biology)
•BIOL 398 Internship in Biology  (relevant research at an external site)
•PSYC 397 Independent Research  (relevant research with faculty in
Psychology)
•PSYC 369 Psychology Honors Readings /PSYC 370 Psychology
Honors Research  (relevant research with faculty in Psychology)
Please contact the NRSC Co-Directors for questions about earning credit
from cognitive/behavioral, molecular/cellular, or neuroscience-related
research in other departments (e.g., computer science, engineering,
chemistry).
Learning Outcomes
By the end of this program of study, students will be able to:
•functional neuroanatomy at the gross, cellular, and subcellular levels.
[Neuroanatomy]
•electrochemical signaling and information processing in the nervous
system. [Neurophysiology]
•the general methodological approaches, applications, strengths, and
weaknesses of the major laboratory and computational techniques
used in the study of the nervous system. [Neuroscience Methods]
•the neural bases of sensory processing and behavior (e.g., movement,
appetitive behaviors, biological rhythms). [Sensory/Behavior]
•the neural bases of cognitive and affective aspects of mental life
(e.g., memory, attention, executive function, language, emotion).
[Cognitive/Affective]
•genetic, environmental, and experiential influences on neural
development and neuroplasticity. [Neural Development/Plasticity]
•the relationships between neurological and psychiatric disorders
(e.g., Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s disease, schizophrenia,
depression), their underlying neuropathology, and common
treatments. [Clinical Disorders]
•read, understand, critically evaluate, and draw appropriate
conclusions from reports of neuroscientiﬁc investigations. [Critical
Analysis]
•effectively communicate ﬁndings from neuroscience research studies
to both scientiﬁc and nonscientiﬁc audiences in multiple formats.
[Scientiﬁc Communication]
•formulate scientiﬁc questions, construct testable hypotheses, and
design scientiﬁc investigations that contribute to neuroscience.
[Research Design]
•engage in scientiﬁc investigations using appropriate neuroscientiﬁc
laboratory or computational techniques, statistically analyze the

--- Page 563 ---
594  Peace, Justice and Conflict Studies Interdisciplinary Program
data, and interpret the ﬁndings. [Laboratory Skills & Inquiry/Statistical
Analysis]
•develop awareness of the philosophical, moral, and ethical issues
raised by neuroscience and influences of neuroscience on other ﬁelds
such as medicine, education, and social sciences. [Science & Society]
Peace, Justice and Conflict Studies
Interdisciplinary Program
The Peace, Justice and Conflict Studies minor is organized around a
broad deﬁnition of peace, encompassing societal peace (including work
to reduce violence and inequalities within the United States), international
peace (focusing on ending wars, terrorist acts, unequal distribution
of resources, and other infringements on human rights and dignity
worldwide), and environmental peace (involving work on sustainable
resources, global warming, and response to natural and human-made
disasters).
Undergraduate Programs
•Peace, Justice and Conflict Studies Minor  (p. 594)
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Peace Studies (PAX) 
PAX 201   Peace Studies Overview   (3 Credit Hours)   
A general introduction to peace studies as an area of inquiry. Students
identify concrete social justice issues and their relevance to domains of
societal, international and ecological spheres of violence and address
literature on nonviolence or limited use of violence through a critical
research paper and other course applications.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Interreligious and Interfaith Studies, Peace,
Justice, and Conflict Studies   
PAX 390   Directed Readings in Peace Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
An independent program of reading and research developed in
consultation with a supervising faculty member and the PAX director. It
usually includes a review of the peace studies literature in the student's
major ﬁeld, with a ﬁnal research project that integrates the student's
major with peace studies.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies   
PAX 397   Special Topics in Peace Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
Topics relating to peace and justice issues as taught on occasion at the
upper level in other departments.
PAX 398   Practicum in Peace Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  permission of PAX director   
Supervised ﬁeld experience in a social justice- or peace-related program
or project.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies   
Peace, Justice and Conflict Studies
Minor
The Peace, Justice and Conflict Studies minor is organized around a
broad deﬁnition of peace, encompassing societal peace (including work
to reduce violence and inequalities within the United States), international
peace (focusing on ending wars, terrorist acts, unequal distributionof resources, and other infringements on human rights and dignity
worldwide), and environmental peace (involving work on sustainable
resources, global warming, and response to natural and human-made
disasters). Students can enroll in internships classes and become
involved with projects and program on campus focused on war and peace
concerns, social justice, and environmental responsibility.
Related Programs
Major
•Human Services (BS)  (p. 510)
Minor
•Race Ethnicity Interdisciplinary Minor  (p. 655)
Curriculum
The Peace, Justice and Conflict Studies Minor consists of six courses
(18 credit hours). All students must complete  PAX 201 Peace Studies
Overview , which provides a comprehensive summary of the international,
societal, and ecological spheres of violence and peace.
Code Title Hours
Required CoursePAX 201Peace Studies Overview3
International Conflict and Peacemaking 3Select one of the following:CLST 281 War and War Experience, Ancient and ModernCOMM 231Conflict Management and CommunicationHIST 334B The Holocaust: History and MemoryHIST 338AHistory of European CommunismHIST 341B Arab-Israeli ConflictPLSC 102International Relations in an Age of GlobalizationPLSC 326 American National SecurityPLSC 353International LawPLSC 356 Intervent in World PoliticsPLSC 364UN & International OrganizationPLSC 367 Model United NationsPLSC 368Politics of the Middle EastSocietal Violence and Conflict Resolution 3Select one of the following:ANTH 100 Globalization and Local CulturesANTH 321Human Rights in Latin AmericaCOMM 227 Social Justice & CommunicationCOMM 272 /
ANTH 231Intercultural CommunicationCOMM 231 Conflict Management and CommunicationCOMM 307Communication & Social MovementsCOMM 322 Guerilla MediaCJC 345Social Justice and CrimeCJC 371 VictimologyCJC 372Race, Ethnicity, and Criminal JusticeCJC 377 Psychology and LawHIST 381Rebels & Reformers in U.S. HistorySOCL 121 Social ProblemsSOCL 122Race and Ethnic Relations

--- Page 564 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 595
SOCL 127 Social Analysis and Social ActionSOCL 222Poverty & Welfare in AmericaSOCL 250 Inequality in SocietySOCL 252Global InequalitiesSOCL 261 Social Movements & Social ChangeSOCL 265Globalization & SocietyPSYC 225 Psychology of PeaceSOCL 216The Sociology of ViolenceTHEO 203 Social Justice and InjusticeEnvironmental Violence and Ecological Concerns3
Select one of the following:ANTH 104The Human Ecological FootprintCOMM 306 Environmental AdvocacyENGL 288Nature in LiteratureENVS 218 Biodiversity & BiogeographyENVS 224Climate & Climate ChangeENVS 273 Energy and The EnvironmentENVS 283Environmental SustainabilityENVS 284 Environmental JusticeENVS 345Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
EcosystemsENVS 350A Solutions to Environmental Problems: WaterPHIL 287Environmental EthicsPLSC 354 Global Environmental PoliticsPLSC 392Environmental PoliticsSOCL 272 Environmental SociologyTHEO 186Global Religious EthicsTHEO 204 Religious Ethics and the Ecological CrisisGeneral Electives  16Total Hours18
1Students may fulﬁll the general elective requirement by taking any two
of the cross-listed courses in the three program areas of International
Conflict and Peacemaking, Societal Violence and Conflict Resolution,
and Environmental Violence and Ecological Concerns. In addition,
students may choose to fulﬁll the general elective requirement by
taking one of the three PAX Courses: PAX 390 Directed Readings in
Peace Studies , PAX 397 Special Topics in Peace Studies , and PAX 398
Practicum in Peace Studies .
Suggested Sequence of Courses
An individual student’s completion of requirements depends on course
offerings in a given term as well as the start term for the minor.  Students
should consult the Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies director for
assistance with course selection.
Learning Outcomes
•Demonstrate an ability to analyze, interpret, or describe two
strategies of peacemaking.  
•Interpret, analyze, and describe important contemporary of at least
two global concerns (e.g., the environment, war, inequity and poverty,
human rights).
•Demonstrate historical knowledge of some distinguished national
and international leaders in peacemaking.•Interpret and analyze and describe at least two global ecological
concerns (e.g., the environment, war, inequity and poverty, human
rights).
•Demonstrate an ability to analyze or describe the signiﬁcance of
the major core categories and discussions in the ﬁeld of peace and
justice studies.
Philosophy
Welcome to the Undergraduate Program at LUC Philosophy!
Our philosophy undergraduate programs prepare students for successful
careers in a wide variety of ﬁelds, and it is well-documented that
philosophy undergraduates are extremely competitive in applications
for law school, medical school, and other graduate programs. (See BA
in Philosophy  (https://www.luc.edu/philosophy/ba.shtml/ ) for further
information.) We pride ourselves in our diverse department, with deep
strengths in multiple traditions of philosophy and an extensive range of
course offerings, which are relevant to many different professions and
interests.
Undergraduate Programs
•Ethics and Moral Philosophy Minor  (p. 603)
•Honors in Philosophy  (p. 604)
•Philosophy (BA)  (p. 605)
•Philosophy (BA/MA)  (p. 1303 )
•Philosophy/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1306 )
•Philosophy Minor  (p. 609)
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Philosophy (PHIL)
PHIL 130   Philosophy & Persons   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces students to the fundamental philosophical issues
that bear on our understanding of persons in three equally weighted
components, namely, Persons & Knowledge, Persons & Values, and
Persons & Reality.
Knowledge Area:  Foundational Philosophical Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  PHIL120/130/180/ACPHI130   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to explain a claim to truth, to explain theories of
value in human life, and to describe theories of the metaphysical nature
of human persons
PHIL 180   Being Human: Philosophical Perspectives   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course examines the way philosophy looks for fundamental
characteristics that identify life as a properly human life, asks about its
ultimate meaning or purpose, and raises questions about what counts as
a good life.
Course equivalencies:  PHIL120/130/180/ACPHI130   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the various
approaches of the philosophical question of what it means to be human

--- Page 565 ---
596  Philosophy
PHIL 181   Ethics   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a general introduction to ethics and moral philosophy.
Knowledge Area:  Ethics   
Course equivalencies:  PHIL 181 / PHIL 281 /ACPHI 281   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of criteria for
choosing between conflicting ethical theories, moral disagreement, the
justiﬁcation of moral judgments, and the application of ethical  standards
to practical decision-making and ethical questions that arise i n everyday
life
PHIL 182   Social and Political Philosophy   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will investigate one of the central questions of philosophy
and social theory: how we, as human beings, should live together.
Knowledge Area:  Ethics   
Course equivalencies:  PHIL162/182/262/282/ACPHI205   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the major
philosophical questions in the area of social philosophy with attention
to the historical and conceptual development of these questions and be
able to articulate some of the major problems and responses central to
this area of philosophy
PHIL 190   Loyola's Mission: The Philosophical Vision   (3 Credit Hours)   
Enrollment is limited to transfer students with 30 or more credit hours.
The course introduces transfer students to the mission of LUC, especially
"Transformative Education, " by means of the methodology of philosophy. "
Outcomes:
Students who take the course acquire an intellectual and experiential
assimilation of LUC's mission, especially as it relates to "Transformative
Education
PHIL 191   Traditional Chinese Philosophy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students will investigate Chinese ancient philosophy in a way to
let its own tendencies be sensed and appreciated. Topics include
Confucianism, Mencius, Sunzi, Taoism, Legalism, Yin-Yang School,
Tung Chung-shu, Chinese Buddhism and Neo-Confucianism. In addition,
students learn about the relations among different schools or different
thinkers in the same school. Comparisons between Chinese philosophies
and western ones are encouraged.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Philosophical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Chinese Language & Culture   
Course equivalencies:  X-PHIL191/ASIA191   
PHIL 192   Chinese Ethics and Asian Values   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course offers an overview of the spirit of Chinese ethics, covering
sacred and secular as well as intellectual and practical elements.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Philosophical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Chinese Language & Culture, Global
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PHIL192/ASIA192/INTS192   
PHIL 193   Contemporary Chinese Philosophy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students will analyze the development of Chinese contemporary
thought in its different stages: rejection of the tradition and its recent
reevaluation.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PHIL193/ASIA193/INTS193   PHIL 262   Social & Political Philosophy - Civic Engagement   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHIL 130   
This course will investigate one of the central questions of philosophy
and social theory: how we, as human beings, should live together.
Because it includes a service learning experience it satisﬁes the civic
engagement core requirement.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  PHIL162/182/262/282/ACPHI205   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the major
philosophical questions in the area of social philosophy with attention
to the historical and conceptual development of these questions, and be
able to articulate some of the major problems and responses central to
this area of philosophy
PHIL 263   Contemporary Ethical Issues - Civic Engagement   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHIL 130   
This course explores ethical reasoning by considering a variety of
contemporary issues in ethics. Because it includes a service learning
experience it satisﬁes the civic engagement core requirement.
Outcomes:
Students will develop a deeper appreciation of moral problems, and will
gain practice in using philosophical moral reasoning
PHIL 264   Health Care Ethics - Civic Engagement   (3 Credit Hours)   
Requirement: PHIL 130 for students admitted to Loyola University for
Fall 2012 or later. No requirement for students admitted to Loyola prior
to Fall 2012 or those with a declared major or minor in the Department
of Philosophy or Department of Political Science. This course studies
philosophical ethics as practiced in the health care setting. It includes
a service-learning experience and satisﬁes the civic engagement core
requirement.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  PHL184/284BIET184PHL164BIET164   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of traditional moral
theories in a health care framework, as well as the varieties of ethical
challenges facing contemporary health care
PHIL 267   Aesthetics - Civic Engagement   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHIL 130 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
The course explores philosophical issues in aesthetics like the nature
of art and beauty through, in part, service-learning in retirement
communities and theaters, as examples.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate their understanding of aesthetics
and the value of leadership development and civic engagement

--- Page 566 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 597
PHIL 271   Philosophy of Religion   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHIL 130 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course explores the development, not only of some classic positions
within the philosophy of religion, but also of how these views have
affected the formulation of more contemporary discussions.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Philosophical Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  PHIL 171 / PHIL 271   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the enterprise
of using reason, broadly construed, to articulate issues arising out of
religious belief and practice and to formulate and defend positions with
respect to those issues
PHIL 272   Metaphysics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHIL 130 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course examines the fundamental principles by which the nature of
reality can be explained.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Philosophical Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  PHIL 172 / PHIL 272   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the central issues
surrounding the ﬁeld of metaphysics
PHIL 273   Philosophy of Science   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHIL 130 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course examines the nature of scientiﬁc knowledge and its claim to
possess a distinctive method of inquiry.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Philosophical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Course equivalencies:  PHIL 173 / PHIL 273   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the mode of
inquiry which is the scientiﬁc method
PHIL 274   Logic   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHIL 130 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course is a detailed study of the deductive methods and principles of
correct reasoning, from both the traditional and modern point of view.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Philosophical Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  PHIL 174/PHIL 274/ACPHI 274   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to formally analyze, evaluate, and demonstrate the
various aspects of argumentation
PHIL 275   Theory of Knowledge   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHIL 130 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course examines both the nature and the reliability of human
knowledge.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Philosophical Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  PHIL 175 / PHIL 275   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the various
approaches to the study of knowledgePHIL 276   Philosophy of Mind   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a study of the different philosophical views regarding the
nature and the existence of the mind and its relation to material bodies.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Course equivalencies:  X-PSYC 276/ PHIL 276/PHIL 176   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the various
philosophical views and problems regarding the mind and its relation to
matter
PHIL 277   Aesthetics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHIL 130 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course will explore one or more of the following philosophical
questions in aesthetics: What is art? What is good art (art evaluation
or critical theory)? What is beauty? What is it about human nature that
allows us to experience beauty?
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Philosophical Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  PHIL 177 / PHIL 276   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the various
approaches to the philosophical study of beauty and the arts
PHIL 277R   Aesthetics: the Aesthetic Experience in Rome   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHIL 130 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course will explore one or more of the following philosophical
questions in aesthetics, with reference particularly to aesthetic
experience in Rome: What is art? What is good art (art evaluation
or critical theory)? What is beauty? What is it about human nature
that allows us to experience beauty? Outcomes: Students will be
able to demonstrate understanding of the various approaches to the
philosophical study of beauty and the arts.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Philosophical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Italian Studies   
Course equivalencies:  PHIL 177 / PHIL 276   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the various
approaches to the philosophical study of beauty and the arts
PHIL 279   Judgment and Decision-Making   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHIL 130 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
Students can take only one course from PHIL 279, PSYC 279, PSYC 280.
This course examines the philosophical and psychological foundations of
decision-making.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Philosophical Knowledge   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the principles of
reasoning and decision-making
PHIL 283   Business Ethics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Effective Spring 2007 students who have taken and successfully
passed PHIL 185 are not eligible to take MGMT 341. This course is an
introduction to ethics which focuses on ethical issues in the world of
business and commerce.
Course equivalencies:  PHIL185/283/MGMT341/H/BHNR341   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to examine and assess various ethical theories and
apply those theories to ethical issues in business

--- Page 567 ---
598  Philosophy
PHIL 284   Health Care Ethics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHIL 130 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course studies philosophical ethics as practiced in the he alth care
setting.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Philosophical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Course equivalencies:  PHL184/284BIET184PHL164BIET164   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of traditional moral
theories in a health care framework, as well as the varieties of ethical
challenges facing contemporary health care
PHIL 285   Contemporary Ethical Issues   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores ethical reasoning through consideration of a
variety of contemporary issues in ethics, such as: abortion, euthanasia,
corruption, discrimination, poverty, and justice.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics, Black World Studies, Bioethics, Black
World Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will develop a deeper appreciation of moral problems and
will gain practice at using philosophical moral reasoning to come to
justiﬁable ethical choices and answers
PHIL 286   Ethics and Education   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHIL 130 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course examines philosophical ethics as it informs and guides the
activity of teaching.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Philosophical Knowledge   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to examine and assess various ethical theories and
apply those theories to ethical issues in teaching
PHIL 287   Environmental Ethics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHIL 130 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course introduces students to ethical reasoning and to various
topics in environmental ethics. Topics may include: pollution, animal
rights, and natural resources.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Philosophical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Course equivalencies:  PHIL187/BIET187   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of diverse ethical theories
and an ability to use philosophical reasoning to defend positions in topics
covered
PHIL 288   Culture and Civilization   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHIL 130 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course examines the nature, causes, and possible future
development of human culture and civilization.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Philosophical Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  PHIL 288/288R   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the various
approaches to the philosophical study of human culture and civilizationPHIL 288R   Culture & Civilization in Rome   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHIL 130 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course examines the nature, causes, and possible future
development of human culture and civilization with an emphasis on
Italian philosophers during the Renaissance.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Philosophical Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Italian American Studies, Italian Studies   
Course equivalencies:  PHIL 288/288R   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the various
approaches to the philosophical study of human culture and civilization
PHIL 289   Philosophy and Gender   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course considers gender as a philosophical question. Is gender
simply a biological truth, or is it a social construct? How does gender
affect our roles and opportunities in society? Should gender play a role in
discussion of human rights?
Outcomes:
The student will develop a philosophical understanding of gender and
will be able to articulate in a thoughtful manner understanding of issues
concerning ethics, society and biology concerning gender
PHIL 301   Symbolic Logic   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to the study of modern symbolic logic,
emphasizing formalization and proof construction. The student is
introduced to the terminology and chief concepts of modern logic.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to symbolically analyze, evaluate, and demonstrate
the various aspects of formal reasoning
PHIL 302   Topics in Formal Logic   (3 Credit Hours)   
Selected topic regarding logical theory or metatheory, such as the
completeness of formal systems, non-standard logics, computability,
foundational issues regarding mathematics.
Outcomes:
Students will develop an advanced understanding of the selected topic in
formal logic
PHIL 304   History of Ancient Philosophy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Students must have taken at least two philosophy
courses   
This course studies the philosophies of the ancient Greeks, including the
pre-Socratics, Plato, and Aristotle.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Italian Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PHIL304/CLST304   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers representative of the ancient Greek philosophers
PHIL 305   Medieval Philosophy   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course studies the philosophies of the major thinkers of the 4th
to the 12th centuries, such as Augustine, Scotus, Boethius, Avicenna,
Anselm, Abelard, Maimonides, and Averroes.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies, Medieval
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PHIL305/CATH305/MSTU344   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers representative of the early medieval philosophers

--- Page 568 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 599
PHIL 306   19th Century Philosophy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Students must have taken at least two philosophy
courses   
This course studies 19th century post-Kantian philosophy from idealism
toward phenomenology. May include philosophers such as Hegel,
Nietzsche, and Husserl.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, German Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers representative of 19th century post-Kantian philosophy
PHIL 307   13th & 14th Century Philosophy   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course studies major thinkers of the 13th and 14th centuries, such
as Albertus Magnus, Aquinas, Scotus, William of Ockham, Roger Bacon.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PHIL307/CATH307   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers representative of the late medieval philosophers
PHIL 308   Islamic Philosophy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Covers the development of classical Islamic philosophy from 800 to
1200 CE. Attention will be given to the central topics (God, the cosmos,
knowledge, the human good) with which Muslim philosophers were
concerned and to major ﬁgures such as Al-Kindi, Al-Farabi, Ibn Sina
(Avicenna). Al-Ghazali and Ibn Rushd (Averroes).
Interdisciplinary Option:  Islamic World Studies, Islamic World Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PHIL308THEO357MSTU334IWS308   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to articulate and discuss major philosophical
problems of concern to Muslim philosophers of the classical period
PHIL 309   Classical Modern Philosophy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Students must have taken at least two philosophy
courses   
This course studies selected philosophers from the early modern period,
such as Descartes, Spinoza, Leibniz, Locke, Hume, Berkeley, Kant.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, German Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers representative of the early modern philosophers
PHIL 310   Issues in Philosophy of Human Nature   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Students must have taken at least two philosophy
courses   
This course gives intensive consideration to various issues that pertain to
being human, such as freedom, determinism, person, society, mind-body,
immortality, etc.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate a deeper awareness
of philosophical problems and answers regarding key issues of human
nature
PHIL 311   Issues in Metaphysics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Students must have taken at least two philosophy
courses   
This course studies various philosophical issues regarding the nature
of all reality, including existence, causality, relations, abstract entities,
purpose, the possibility of knowledge of reality.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate a deeper awareness of
philosophical problems and answers regarding key metaphysical issuesPHIL 312   Problems in the Philosophy of God   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Students must have taken at least two philosophy
courses   
This course studies classical and contemporary approaches to
knowledge of the existence of God, divine attributes, good and evil,
providence and human freedom.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate a deeper awareness
of philosophical problems and answers regarding philosophical views of
God
PHIL 318   Philosophy of Art   (3 Credit Hours)   
Reading and discussion of selected philosophical texts concerning the
nature of art and artistic experience.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers to questions regarding the nature of art and artistic
experience
PHIL 319   Studies in Philososphy & Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a study of selected works of literature and a discussion of
philosophical issues in relation to these works.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate a deeper awareness of
philosophical problems and answers to questions regarding the nature
of literary work, the relations of philosophical and literary language, and
methods of interpretation
PHIL 320   The Philosophy of St Augustine   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a study of the principal works of Augustine, such as the
Confessions, City of God.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, Medieval Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PHIL320/CATH320/MSTU346   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers found in the works of Augustine
PHIL 321   Ethics and Society   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Students must have taken at least two philosophy
courses   
This course is a study of the rights, duties, and virtues of individuals as
members of societies, covering issues such as family and state, social
justice, international society, war, and globalization.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Sociolegal Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate a deeper awareness
of philosophical problems and answers to questions regarding ethics in
social contexts
PHIL 322   Philosophical Perspectives on Woman   (3 Credit Hours)   
Philosophical reflections on being a woman. Topics such as womanhood,
representations of women, self-respect, oppression, afﬁrmative action,
sexism, and racism.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PHIL322/WOST322/WSGS322   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate a deeper awareness of
philosophical problems and answers to questions regarding conceptions
of and experience of being a woman

--- Page 569 ---
600  Philosophy
PHIL 323   Philosophy of Law   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course pursues a philosophical analysis of law. It deals with topics
such as philosophical presuppositions of law, origin and purpose of law,
law as social control, current legal problems involving ethical issues.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Sociolegal Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers to questions regarding law and its applications
PHIL 324   Topics in Ethics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Students must have taken at least two philosophy
courses   
This course studies a particular topic selected from the ﬁeld of ethics.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate a deeper awareness of
philosophical problems and answers to questions regarding the selected
topic
PHIL 324B   Bioethics Minor Capstone: Philosophical Topics   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Two Science courses and two Ethics courses   
This course number will only be used when PHIL 324 is tagged with the
Bioethics Minor Capstone course.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the connection between ethical and scientiﬁc
issues with regard to the special topic in philosophy
PHIL 325   Ethics & Case Based Reasoning   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Two previous philosophy courses   
This course is an engaged learning course that provides students with a
unique opportunity to practice applying moral theories and argumentative
principles to personal and social- ethical problems, and to teach middle
school students how to do the same. The course focuses on presenting
solutions to cases and hence involves research, writing, and oral
presentation.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate a deeper awareness
of philosophical problems and answers to questions using a case based
system
PHIL 326   Political Philosophy   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an examination of the major theories of politica l society,
studying important aspects of political society and their relationships to
human nature.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Sociolegal Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers to questions regarding the nature of political society in
relation to its members
PHIL 327   Topics in Political Philosophy   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will concentrate on a speciﬁc issue or issues in political
philosophy. Typical topics include civil disobedience, war and peace,
political revolution, punishment, and criminal justice.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate a deeper awareness of
philosophical problems and answers to questions regarding the selected
topicPHIL 328   Philosophical Questions in Human Rights   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Two prior courses in Philosophy   
This course addresses questions in human rights such as the concept of
rights and its critics, sovereignty and its relation to global governance, the
role of intent, and how human rights are gendered.
Outcomes:
Students are expected to have an overview of the major legal frameworks
for human rights, as well as an understanding of several of the major
philosophical issues and related literature
PHIL 329   International Ethics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Two prior courses in either Philosophy or Political Science   
This course is intended to give students an overview of some of the major
frameworks for addressing ethical issues in the international arena. This
includes Just War doctrine, economic rights, and global governance.
Outcomes:
Students are expected to be familiar with the major treaties, international
law doctrines, and institutions relevant to international ethics, as well the
pertinent secondary literature
PHIL 330   Theory of Knowledge   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Students must have taken at least two philosophy
courses   
This course will study major philosophical positions regarding knowledge,
belief, thought and language, truth, evidence, reason, perception,
skepticism.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers to questions regarding the ﬁeld of knowledge and related
issues
PHIL 333   Language: Theories Ancient & Modern   (3 Credit Hours)   
Classical, modern, and contemporary philosophical theories on the nature
and structure of human language.
Course equivalencies:  X-LING333/PHIL333   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate some philosophical
problems and answers regarding the nature and structure of human
language
PHIL 335   Asian Philosophy   (3 Credit Hours)   
A study of fundamental tenets of major Eastern philosophies (Chinese,
Japanese, Indian) in comparison to Western tradition. Course may vary in
emphasis on particular philosophies and themes.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies, Japanese Language
and Culture   
Course equivalencies:  X-PHIL335/ASIA335/INTS334   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers to questions regarding Eastern philosophical thought
PHIL 340   Philosophy of St Thomas Aquinas   (3 Credit Hours)   
A study of the philosophy of Thomas Aquinas, including background
regarding his life and medieval context.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, Medieval Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PHIL340/MSTU348   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers to questions regarding the thought of Aquinas and its
medieval context

--- Page 570 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 601
PHIL 342   Topics in the Catholic Philosophical Tradition   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  One class in philosophy or permission of instructor   
This course examines the Catholic philosophical tradition, beginning with
its roots in ancient Greek philosophy, through the medieval period in the
work of ﬁgures such as St. Augustine and St. Thomas Aquinas, and up to
and including contemporary Catholic philosophy.
Course equivalencies:  X-CATH 303 / PHIL 342   
Outcomes:
Students will be conversant and familiar with the Catholic philosophical
tradition throughout its history, demonstrating proﬁciency in operating
within the philosophical framework of this tradition
PHIL 344   Philosophy of Human Nature   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course explores at an advanced level the relation of human
nature and aesthetics through, in part, service-learning in retirement
communities and theaters, as examples.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate advanced understanding of
the relation between human nature and aesthetics and the value of
leadership development and civic engagement
PHIL 350   Directed Reading   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Students must have taken at least two philosophy
courses   
Independent research according to program developed jointly by the
student and a faculty director. Open to majors and to non-majors with the
permission of the chairperson.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers regarding the selected topic
PHIL 355   Neuroethics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  students must have taken at least two philosophy courses   
This course focuses on ethical considerations emerging from
contemporary research in neuroscience, as well as neuroscientiﬁc
techniques for studying ethical questions. Students will be able to
demonstrate understanding of the ways in which the study of ethics and
neuroscience inform each other
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Course equivalencies:  X - PSYC355/PHIL355   
PHIL 360   Contemporary European Philosophy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Students must have taken at least two philosophy
courses   
Readings and discussion drawn from contemporary French and German
philosophers, such as Merleau-Ponty, Sartre, Heidegger, Derrida, Foucault.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers representative of contemporary French and German
philosophy
PHIL 362   The British Philosophers   (3 Credit Hours)   
Readings and discussion drawn from early modern and modern British
philosophers such as Hobbes, Locke, Hutcheson, Hume, Smith, Bentham,
Mill.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers representative of early British philosophyPHIL 369   Philosophy of Medicine   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Students must have taken at least two philosophy
courses   
This course investigates philosophical questions concerning the practice
of medicine, such as the epistemology of medicine, the nature of health
and disease, what is a profession, and the nature of suffering.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Course equivalencies:  X-PHIL369/BIET369   
Outcomes:
The student will develop a critical understanding of the practice of
medicine from a philosophical point of view
PHIL 370   Intro to American Philosophy   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course studies American Philosophers such as Peirce, James,
Dewey, with an evaluation of their principles.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers representative of American philosophy
PHIL 374   Philosophy of History   (3 Credit Hours)   
Study of the nature of historical knowledge and of theories concerning
historical process.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers regarding history as a discipline and a historical process
PHIL 375   Philosophy of Marxism   (3 Credit Hours)   
A study of the philosophical dimensions of the thought of Karl Marx, his
19th century precursors and 20th century interpreters.
Interdisciplinary Option:  German Studies   
Course equivalencies:  PHIL394/PHIL375   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers to questions regarding the thought of Karl Marx and
Marxism
PHIL 380   Topics in Philosophy of Religion   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Students must have taken at least two philosophy
courses   
This course studies various philosophical issues regarding religion.
May include issues such as religious concepts, types of religion, divine
attributes, free will and providence, problem of evil.
Course equivalencies:  PHIL391/PHIL380   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate a deeper awareness of
philosophical problems and answers regarding key religious issues
PHIL 381   Philosophy of Science   (3 Credit Hours)   
Readings and discussion of selected texts regarding theories of scientiﬁc
methods, scientiﬁc reasoning, metaphysical foundations of science,
philosophical problems of scientiﬁc theories about physical reality.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers regarding scientiﬁc inquiry and theory
PHIL 382   Philosophy of Social Science   (3 Credit Hours)   
Study of philosophical issues in the practice of contemporary behavioral
sciences: theory, fact and value, causality, relativism, functionalism,
statistical generalization, social planning.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers regarding issues in the behavioral sciences

--- Page 571 ---
602  Philosophy
PHIL 383   Philosophy of Psychology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Students must have taken at least two philosophy
courses   
A philosophical analysis of theoretical positions in psychology. May
include issues regarding methodology, perception, learning theory,
rationality, emotions.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers regarding issues in the ﬁeld of psychology
PHIL 384   Topics in Philosophy & Science   (3 Credit Hours)   
Particular topics selected from philosophy and science. Typical topics
include the Scientiﬁc Revolution, positivism, space and time, relativity
theory, cosmology, evolution.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers regarding the selected topic
PHIL 385   Environmental Ethics   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will examine a number of controversial moral issues involving
our environment. Theoretical and applied topics may include animal
rights and species rights, nonwestern environmental perspectives,
ecofeminism, duties to future generations, overpopulation, pollution,
nuclear power, and environmental issues in policy making and business
ethics.
PHIL 386   Analytic Philosophy   (3 Credit Hours)   
A survey of 20th century British and American philosophy in the analytic
tradition, including philosophers such as Russell, Moore, Wittgenstein,
Carnap, Quine.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers regarding the analytic tradition in philosophy
PHIL 387   Philosophy of Mind   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Students must have taken at least two philosophy
courses   
This course is a critical study of issues such as the mind-body  problem,
personal identity, knowledge of other minds, consciousness, perception.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers regarding issues in the philosophy of mind
PHIL 388   History of Ethics   (3 Credit Hours)   
An intensive study of the ethical theories of several major ﬁgures in the
history of western moral philosophy, including, for example, the systems
of Aristotle, Kant, and Mill.
Outcomes:
Students will develop a more advanced understanding of philosophical
problems and answers to questions in the ﬁeld of ethics by means of this
historical study
PHIL 389   Contemporary Issues   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Students must have taken at least two philosophy
courses   
Study of a selected topic in some area of contemporary philosophy.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers regarding the selected topicPHIL 390   Independent Study for Majors   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Students must be a philosophy major with adequate
background   
In-depth independent research developed jointly by the student and a
faculty director. The topic should be one with which the student has some
familiarity so that the research can be an examination of it in-depth.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and articulate philosophical problems
and answers regarding the selected topic
PHIL 391   Topics in Philosophy of Religion   (3 Credit Hours)   
PHIL 391 was re-numbered to PHIL 380.
Course equivalencies:  PHIL391/PHIL380   
PHIL 393   Philosophy & The Human Sciences   (0 Credit Hours)   
This seminar explores a selected theme in health care ethics. Extensive
use is made of visiting guest experts. Students should have completed
four courses in philosophy, including a course in health care ethics.
Outcomes:
Students will develop a more advanced philosophical understanding of
health care ethics, through direct student participation in an interactive
seminar environment
PHIL 395   Seminar in Ancient Philosophy   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will study selected issues from ancient philosophy. Course
intended for philosophy majors. Students should have completed ﬁve
philosophy courses, including PHIL 304.
Outcomes:
Students will develop a more advanced understanding of ancient
philosophy, through direct student participation in an interactive seminar
environment
PHIL 396   Seminar in Medieval Philosophy   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will study selected issues from ancient philosophy. Course
intended for philosophy majors. Students should have completed ﬁve
philosophy courses, including a course in medieval philosophy.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Medieval Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PHIL396/MSTU350   
Outcomes:
Students will develop a more advanced understanding of medieval
philosophy, through direct student participation in an interactive seminar
environment
PHIL 397   Capstone Seminar in Classical Modern Philosophy   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course will study selected issues from early modern philosophy.
Course intended for philosophy majors. Students should have completed
ﬁve philosophy courses, including PHIL 309.
Outcomes:
Students will develop a more advanced understanding of early modern
philosophy, through direct student participation in an interactive seminar
environment
PHIL 398   Capstone Seminar in Contemporary Philosophy   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Course intended for philosophy majors   
Students should have completed at least ﬁve philosophy courses. This
course will study selected issues in contemporary philosophy. Course
intended for philosophy majors. Students should have completed ﬁve
philosophy courses.
Outcomes:
Students will develop a more advanced understanding of contemporary
philosophy, through direct student participation in an interactive seminar
environment

--- Page 572 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 603
PHIL 399   Capstone Seminar on a Topic in Philosophy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Course intended for philosophy majors   
Students should have completed at least ﬁve philosophy courses. This
course engages the student in an analysis and discussion of special
problems found in various areas of philosophy. Student should have
completed ﬁve philosophy courses.
Outcomes:
Students will develop a more advanced understanding of the
philosophical enterprise, through direct student participation in an
interactive seminar environment
Ethics and Moral Philosophy Minor
Ethics is a central area of human concern and human inquiry. A special
concern with ethics and human values is one of the things that deﬁnes
Loyola University Chicago and the Jesuit Tradition. Philosophy and
philosophical treatments of ethics and ethical theory are foundational for
the critical discussion of ethical issues in other ﬁelds. The Minor in Ethics
and Moral Philosophy can prove to be a signiﬁcant credential for some
students, both for ﬁnding employment and for admission to graduate or
professional school, as there is increasing attention to the study of ethics
in professional schools. Please note that Philosophy Majors cannot
receive the Minor in Ethics and Moral Philosophy.
For further information, please contact the Philosophy
Undergraduate Program Director  (https://www.luc.edu/philosophy/
departmentadministration/ ).
Related Programs
Major
•Philosophy (BA)  (p. 605)
Minor
•Philosophy Minor  (p. 609)
Combined
•Philosophy (BA/MA)  (p. 1303 )
•Philosophy/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1306 )
Curriculum
For this minor a student must take six courses in ethics. At least four of
these six courses must be taken from the Philosophy Department, and
at least two of them must be at the 300-level.  As many as two ethics
courses can be taken outside of the Philosophy Department.
Each student's minor program must include:
Code Title Hours
Minor RequirementsSelect two lower-level philosophy courses in ethics:  16
PHIL 181 EthicsPHIL 182Social and Political PhilosophyPHIL 284 Health Care EthicsPHIL 285Contemporary Ethical IssuesPHIL 286 Ethics and EducationPHIL 288Culture and CivilizationPHIL 289 Philosophy and GenderSelect two 300-level philosophy courses in ethics:  16
PHIL 321 Ethics and SocietyPHIL 323Philosophy of LawPHIL 324 Topics in Ethics 2PHIL 369Philosophy of MedicinePHIL 385 Environmental EthicsPHIL 388History of EthicsPHIL 389 Contemporary Issues 3PHIL 398Capstone Seminar in Contemporary Philosophy 3PHIL 399 Capstone Seminar on a Topic in Philosophy 3Select two courses from the following:6
THEO 192 Topics in Moral ProblemsTHEO 340Foundations of Christian MoralityTHEO 342 Perspectives on Life and DeathTHEO 344Theology and EcologyUp to two additional elective philosophy courses in ethics at any
level (e.g.100-, 200- or 300-level)Total Hours18
1Note that, in addition to the courses listed here, individual sections of
philosophy courses that are not on this list but which are taught as
ethics classes can count towards the minor on a case by case basis.
2Two or more sections of  PHIL 324 Topics in Ethics  can count towards
the minor, if those sections are different ethics courses.
3Some sections of  PHIL 389 Contemporary Issues , PHIL 398 Capstone
Seminar in Contemporary Philosophy , and PHIL 399 Capstone Seminar
on a Topic in Philosophy  can count toward the minor, provided such
sections are ethics courses.
Note that a student can incorporate the courses taken for the Core
Curriculum into this minor, in such a way that only some additional
courses are needed to complete this minor. For example, a student can
take two Core philosophy area courses in ethics and one Core theology
area course in ethics. That student would then take three additional
ethics courses (of which two are from Philosophy at the 300-level) in
order to receive the Minor in Ethics and Moral Philosophy.
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of the Minor in Ethics and Moral Philosophy students
will be able to:
•Analyze major texts in the history of philosophy.
•Articulate major philosophical problems and their solutions, such as
questions concerning truth and knowledge, reality, moral values, and
justice.
•Distinguish and explain different philosophical methodologies or
approaches.
•Explain and apply ethical frameworks.
•Evaluate or construct arguments.

--- Page 573 ---
604  Honors in Philosophy
Honors in Philosophy
Requirements and Steps
1.Be a philosophy major and have a GPA of at least 3.5 in Philosophy
2.Write an Honors Thesis and pass an Oral Defense on the thesis
3.Take one extra upper-level Philosophy course
Start by contacting the Philosophy Undergraduate Program Director
(https://www.luc.edu/philosophy/departmentadministration/ ). A student
pursuing honors in philosophy chooses a topic to research and selects a
faculty member who agrees to supervise the student's work on the thesis.
The Undergraduate Program Director assists the student in setting up
a committee for the oral defense consisting of the faculty member who
supervised the thesis and two additional faculty members.
The student may develop the thesis from an earlier paper written for
a philosophy course. Also, the student may take the required extra
philosophy course as a directed readings course with his or her faculty
supervisor.
A draft of the thesis must be completed early enough in the semester
that the faculty supervisor can make comments for possible revision.
The other members of the defense committee may offer feedback if they
wish.
When the thesis is completed, an oral defense of the thesis is scheduled,
usually by the student and his or her faculty supervisor. The three faculty
members participating in the oral defense then vote on whether the
student has passed the defense.
For more information contact the Philosophy Undergraduate Program
Director  (https://www.luc.edu/philosophy/departmentadministration/ ).
Frequently Asked Questions
Do I need to be a member of the Interdisciplinary Honors Program
in order to graduate with honors in philosophy?
No. The two programs are completely independent of each other.
When do I need to sign up or declare that I want to graduate with
honors in philosophy?
For a student graduating in the spring, it is a good idea to start the
process sometime in the fall semester of one's ﬁnal year in order to allow
ample time to get things done. However, a student may sign up as late as
the ﬁrst few weeks of the spring semester.
How do I sign up?
Contact the Philosophy Undergraduate Program Director  (https://
www.luc.edu/philosophy/departmentadministration/ ).
How long does the honors thesis need to be?
There is no set page minimum or maximum. The thesis should be a
substantial paper. A student's faculty supervisor will help the student
determine what is required in her or his chosen area of study.
Do I need to write the thesis "from scratch"?
No. Doing so is permitted, but students often start with a paper they have
written for a philosophy class and revise, expand, deepen, and develop it
into a bigger, better paper.
Do the above deadlines mean that I can submit my thesis during
ﬁnals week?
No. The normal procedure is for a student to submit a draft of the thesis
to the supervising faculty member (or to all three faculty members on thedefense committee, if they are willing) of the student's thesis. The faculty
supervisor (and perhaps the other faculty on the defense committee)
critique the paper and return it to the student for revisions. The revised
version of the thesis is then given to all three members of the committee
approximately one week before the scheduled defense of the thesis. As
a general rule, the student should expect to submit a draft by the tenth
week of classes.
Who decides if the honors thesis and oral defense satisfy the
requirements?
That determination is made by the three faculty members who take part
in the student's oral defense of the thesis.
How long is the oral defense?
There is no required time limit, but typically the defense lasts between
one and two hours. Usually, the student begins by summarizing the
thesis (this might take 5–10 minutes) and then the faculty members
ask the student questions about the thesis (or the research for it, or its
applications) for about an hour. The student then leaves the room while
the faculty members decide whether the student passed. The defense is
not so much an examination as it is a discussion.
The Honors Thesis
The Honors Thesis is more than a paper written for a class. In general, it
is longer, better developed, and more sophisticated. It should be similar to
a paper written by a ﬁrst year graduate student.
Minimally, the Honors Thesis must be a good philosophy paper, although
we expect that a major working at honors will aim to make his or her
thesis even better than that. The descriptions below indicate what to aim
for and also what sort of work falls short.
Outstanding:
•The thesis statement is clearly and fully articulated
•The paper presents a clearly structured argument that is complete
and easy to follow
•The reasons/premises are stated clearly and are relevant and
internally coherent
•The reasons/premises directly support the argument and the
explanation makes it clear why this is so
•The paper acknowledges and explicitly responds to
counterarguments with sophistication
•The paper uses appropriate textual references whose presence is
clearly helpful and explicitly explained
•The paper uses an accurate and insightful interpretation of the texts
it uses
•The paper offers a thoughtful and persuasive critical evaluation of the
various positions and arguments presented
Good:
•The thesis statement is clear and fully articulated
•The paper presents a well-reasoned argument without important
steps in the argument being left out or difﬁcult to ﬁnd
•The reasons/premises are stated and relevant
•The reasons/premises support the argument, even if the reasons why
they support the conclusions are not fully or clearly articulated
•The paper notes that there are counterarguments to its thesis and
indicates how they might be responded to
•The paper uses textual references that contribute to its argument or
its discussion of counterarguments

--- Page 574 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 605
•The paper accurately interprets the texts it uses
•The paper offers some critical evaluation of its own thesis and/or
arguments and/or of the counterarguments it identiﬁes
Less Than Adequate:
•There is a thesis that is evident, but it is not clear and/or is not easy
to ﬁnd
•Argumentation is present, but is incomplete and/or its elements are
difﬁcult to ﬁnd
•The reasons/premises of the argument are evident, but are
incompletely or unclearly stated
•The reasons/premises lend support for the conclusions, but the
conclusions do not follow unless other reasons/premises are
assumed which are not stated and/or the relation between the stated
reasons and their conclusions is not explained
•Some obvious counterarguments are noted, but others are missed
and/or possible responses to those that are mentioned are absent
•Textual references are made but they are either not necessarily
appropriate or their connection to the reasoning in the paper is
unclear
•The interpretation of the texts that are used is fairly accurate and
does not force the texts to ﬁt a certain role in the paper
•The paper shows a few signs of critical evaluation regarding the
various positions and arguments presented, but it is spotty and
incomplete in this respect
Philosophy (BA)
The philosophy major at Loyola is extremely  customizable and easily
suited to your goals. Of the 11 courses required for the major, only 3
are ﬁxed: PHIL 274 Logic , PHIL 304 History of Ancient Philosophy , and
PHIL 309 Classical Modern Philosophy . Beyond that, you have flexibility
to chart your own course. You can also choose to specialize in one of
four areas: Ethics & Values (E&V); Law, Society, & Social Justice (LSSJ);
Mind & Science (M&S); or Existence, Meaning, & Culture (EMC). (See
Philosophy Major Specializations  (p. 605) for more details.)
For further information, please contact the Philosophy
Undergraduate Program Director  (https://www.luc.edu/philosophy/
departmentadministration/ ).
Related Programs
Minor
•Ethics and Moral Philosophy Minor  (p. 603)
•Philosophy Minor  (p. 609)
Combined
•Philosophy (BA/MA)  (p. 1303 )
•Philosophy/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1306 )
Curriculum
Note that Philosophy majors are exempt from the general LUC  PHIL 130
CORE requirement.
All majors must take at least eleven (11) courses in philosophy. Seven of
these courses must be at the 300-level (eight, if PHIL 301  is taken). Note
that 300-level courses have a prerequisite of two philosophy courses.
Each student's major program must include:Code Title Hours
Major RequirementsEthics  (p. 605)Select one course from the Ethics Course Options. 3Metaphysics/Epistemology  (p. 606)Select one course from the Epistemology Course Options. 3Formal LogicPHIL 274 Logic 3
or PHIL 301 Symbolic LogicAncient PhilosophyPHIL 304 History of Ancient Philosophy 3Classical Modern PhilosophyPHIL 309 Classical Modern Philosophy 3Philosophy Capstone SeminarSelect one philosophy capstone seminar in a historical period or on a
contemporary issue:  13PHIL 395Seminar in Ancient PhilosophyPHIL 396 Seminar in Medieval PhilosophyPHIL 397Capstone Seminar in Classical Modern PhilosophyPHIL 398 Capstone Seminar in Contemporary PhilosophyPHIL 399Capstone Seminar on a Topic in PhilosophyPhilosophy ElectivesFive other elective philosophy courses, of which at least four must be
at the 300-level15Total Hours33
1The department offers one capstone in each Philosophy Major
Specialization each year.
Ethics Course Options
Code Title Hours
PHIL 181 Ethics 3PHIL 182Social and Political Philosophy3
PHIL 283 Business Ethics 3PHIL 284Health Care Ethics3
PHIL 285 Contemporary Ethical Issues 3PHIL 286Ethics and Education3
PHIL 287 Environmental Ethics 3PHIL 288Culture and Civilization3
PHIL 289 Philosophy and Gender 3PHIL 321Ethics and Society3
PHIL 322 Philosophical Perspectives on Woman 3PHIL 324Topics in Ethics3
PHIL 324B Bioethics Minor Capstone: Philosophical Topics 3PHIL 325Ethics & Case Based Reasoning3
PHIL 329 International Ethics 3PHIL 355Neuroethics3
PHIL 369 Philosophy of Medicine 3PHIL 375Philosophy of Marxism3
PHIL 385 Environmental Ethics 3PHIL 388History of Ethics3

--- Page 575 ---
606  Philosophy (BA)
Metaphysics/Epistemology Course
Options
Code Title Hours
PHIL 130 Philosophy & Persons 3PHIL 271Philosophy of Religion3
PHIL 272 Metaphysics 3PHIL 273Philosophy of Science3
PHIL 275 Theory of Knowledge 3PHIL 276Philosophy of Mind3
PHIL 277 Aesthetics 3PHIL 279Judgment and Decision-Making3
PHIL 311 Issues in Metaphysics 3PHIL 325Ethics & Case Based Reasoning3
PHIL 330 Theory of Knowledge 3PHIL 380Topics in Philosophy of Religion3
PHIL 381 Philosophy of Science 3PHIL 382Philosophy of Social Science3
PHIL 384 Topics in Philosophy & Science 3PHIL 386Analytic Philosophy3
PHIL 387 Philosophy of Mind 3PHIL 391Topics in Philosophy of Religion3
PHIL 393 Philosophy & The Human Sciences 0
(Optional) Philosophy Major
Specializations
Specializing within the major is not required. Declaring a general
philosophy major is common and allows for the greatest flexibility in your
course selection.
That said, choosing to pursue a philosophy specialization can h elp you
to identify what ﬁelds within philosophy you ﬁnd most fascinating and
relevant, and plan a course of study within your major that emphasizes
your interests.
The four areas of specialization within the philosophy major are: Ethics
& Values  (E&V); Law, Society, & Social Justice  (LSSJ); Mind & Science
(M&S); and  Existence, Meaning, & Culture  (EMC). To declare a Philosophy
Major Specialization, contact the Philosophy Undergraduate Program
Director.
Students pursuing a Philosophy Major Specialization must complete the
Philosophy Major Requirements  (p.  ), listed above. Students should
select elective courses that best align with their chosen Philosophy
Major Specialization (see the Suggested Sequence of Courses for each
specialization for more information).
Specialization in Ethics and Values (E&V)
Courses in the E&V specialization focus on ethical and moral issues,
investigating how meaning, value, and moral responsibility operate
to constitute an ethical human life. E&V courses each address some
of the following topics: meta questions about value, the status of
moral judgments, the nature of freedom, etc.; normative questions
that encompass personal ethical choices, how individuals and groups
should live together in a society, or ways to make ethical judgments;
and applied questions about, for example, health care, education, or the
environment. Potential topics include: Is moral value culturally relative?What makes something good? What is a good human life? Should
voluntary euthanasia be legalized? What obligations does each person
have, both to themselves and each other? Here concerns about moral
rights, needs, capabilities, and character often play a role in deciding
how we should go about making choices, especially when other pe ople’s
interests are involved.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
Freshman
Fall HoursEthics Course  13 Hours3
SpringEpistemology Course3 Hours3
Sophomore
Fall
PHIL 274 Logic 3PHIL 304 
or PHIL 309History of Ancient Philosophy 
or Classical Modern Philosophy3 Hours6
SpringPHIL 300-level E&V Elective Course  23 Hours3
Junior
FallPHIL 309 
or PHIL 304Classical Modern Philosophy ( whichever
course not previously taken ) 
or History of Ancient Philosophy3PHIL Elective Course (100-, 200-, or 300-level)3 Hours6
SpringPHIL 300-level E&V Elective Course  23 Hours3
Senior
Fall
PHIL 300-level E&V Elective Course  23PHIL 300-level Elective Course3 Hours6
SpringPHIL E&V Capstone Seminar3 Hours3 Total Hours33
1PHIL 181 Ethics  (suggested)
2Suggested E&V 300-level Elective Courses:  PHIL 310 Issues in
Philosophy of Human Nature , PHIL 321 Ethics and Society , PHIL 324
Topics in Ethics , PHIL 388 History of Ethics
Specialization in Law, Society and Social Justice (LSSJ)
Courses in the LSSJ specialization focus on questions of justice—
which is to say questions of how we should best live together, structure
our societies, and justify our systems of law— developing the ability
to critically examine our existing communities, societies, and laws.
Students with an LSSJ specialization gain a solid understanding of the

--- Page 576 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 607
philosophical foundations of law, politics, and governance, as well as
insight into theories of social justice, economic justice, racial justice,
gender justice, environmental justice, etc. LSSJ specialists are thus well-
equipped to pursue advanced study of these questions (for example,
in law school), to engage in socio-political critique, and/or t o strive for
positive social and political change.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
Freshman
Fall HoursEthics Course  13 Hours3
SpringEpistemology Course3 Hours3
Sophomore
Fall
PHIL 274 Logic 3PHIL 304 
or PHIL 309History of Ancient Philosophy 
or Classical Modern Philosophy3 Hours6
SpringPHIL 300-level LSSJ Elective Course  23 Hours3
Junior
FallPHIL 309 
or PHIL 304Classical Modern Philosophy ( whichever
course not previously taken ) 
or History of Ancient Philosophy3PHIL Elective Course (100-, 200-, or 300-level)3 Hours6
SpringPHIL 300-level LSSJ Elective Course  23 Hours3
Senior
Fall
PHIL 300-level LSSJ Elective Course  23PHIL 300-level Elective Course3 Hours6
SpringPHIL LSSJ Capstone Seminar3 Hours3 Total Hours33
1PHIL 182 Social and Political Philosophy  (suggested)
2Suggested LSSJ 300-level Elective Courses: PHIL 321 Ethics
and Society , PHIL 323 Philosophy of Law , PHIL 326 Political
Philosophy , PHIL 327 Topics in Political Philosophy
 Specialization in Mind and Science (M&S)
Courses in the M&S specialization focus on topics in epistemology
(the study of knowledge) and metaphysics (the study of reality and
ﬁrst principles), with a particular emphasis on philosophy of science
and the philosophy of mind. Topics in epistemology include the nature
of justiﬁcation, certainty, belief, truth, and good reasoning; the natureof scientiﬁc inquiry; the roles of values in science; and decolonizing
knowledge. Metaphysics covers issues that lie at the foundation of
other disciplines, including the nature or existence of reality, soul, body,
mind, God, freedom, and human persons. Addressing both historical
and contemporary approaches to these topics, an M&S specialization
complements further study in the ﬁelds of neuroscience, psychology,
biology, physics, chemistry, medicine, mathematics, and other related
disciplines.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
Freshman
Fall HoursEthics Course3 Hours3
SpringEpistemology Course  13 Hours3
Sophomore
Fall
PHIL 274 Logic 3PHIL 304 
or PHIL 309History of Ancient Philosophy 
or Classical Modern Philosophy3 Hours6
SpringPHIL 300-level M&S Elective Course  23 Hours3
Junior
FallPHIL 309 
or PHIL 304Classical Modern Philosophy ( whichever
course not previously taken ) 
or History of Ancient Philosophy3PHIL Elective Course (100-, 200-, or 300-level)3 Hours6
SpringPHIL 300-level M&S Elective Course  23 Hours3
Senior
Fall
PHIL 300-level M&S Elective Course  23PHIL 300-level Elective Course3 Hours6
SpringPHIL M&S Capstone Seminar3 Hours3 Total Hours33
1PHIL 273 Philosophy of Science  (highly suggested) or  PHIL 276
Philosophy of Mind  (highly suggested)
2Suggested M&S 300-level Elective Courses: PHIL 311 Issues in
Metaphysics , PHIL 325 Ethics & Case Based Reasoning , PHIL 330
Theory of Knowledge , PHIL 333 Language: Theories Ancient
& Modern , PHIL 355 Neuroethics , PHIL 369 Philosophy of
Medicine , PHIL 381 Philosophy of Science , PHIL 382 Philosophy of
Social Science , PHIL 383 Philosophy of Psychology

--- Page 577 ---
608  Philosophy (BA)
Specialization in Existence, Meaning and Culture (EMC)
Courses in the EMC specialization ask about how we ﬁnd meaning, both
as individuals and as parts of communities and cultures that precede
and might outlast us. What does it mean to be a person? What is  it like
to be a person? How do we respond to, critique, and carry on the past?
EMC courses are broadly conversant with and build upon 19th and 20th
century European philosophy, focusing on issues in phenomenology
(the study of experience), hermeneutics (the study of interpretation),
existentialism, philosophical anthropology, feminist philosophy, gender
theory, critical race theory, and aesthetics. Topics in these areas intersect
with, but are not reducible to, issues in metaphysics, epistemology, and
ethics. Speciﬁc approaches may be historical and/or conceptual, analytic
and/or continental, intradisciplinary and/or interdisciplinary.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
Freshman
Fall HoursEthics Course  13 Hours3
SpringEpistemology Course3 Hours3
Sophomore
Fall
PHIL 274 Logic 3PHIL 304 
or PHIL 309History of Ancient Philosophy 
or Classical Modern Philosophy3 Hours6
SpringPHIL 300-level EMC Elective Course  23 Hours3
Junior
FallPHIL 309 
or PHIL 304Classical Modern Philosophy ( whichever
course not previously taken ) 
or History of Ancient Philosophy3PHIL Elective Course (100-, 200-, or 300-level)3 Hours6
SpringPHIL 300-level EMC Elective Course  23 Hours3
Senior
Fall
PHIL 300-level EMC Elective Course  23PHIL 300-level Elective Course3 Hours6
SpringPHIL EMC Capstone Seminar3 Hours3 Total Hours33
1PHIL 181 Ethics  (suggested)
2Suggested EMC 300-level Elective Courses: PHIL 318 Philosophy of
Art, PHIL 319 Studies in Philososphy & Literature , PHIL 326 PoliticalPhilosophy , PHIL 327 Topics in Political Philosophy , PHIL 360
Contemporary European Philosophy
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Freshman
FallEthics Course3 Hours3
SpringMetaphysics/Epistemology Course3 Hours3
Sophomore
Fall
PHIL 274 
or PHIL 301Logic 
or Symbolic Logic3PHIL 304 
or PHIL 309History of Ancient Philosophy 
or Classical Modern Philosophy3 Hours6
SpringPHIL 309 
or PHIL 304Classical Modern Philosophy ( whichever
course not previously taken ) 
or History of Ancient Philosophy3 Hours3
Junior
FallPHIL 300-level Elective Course3PHIL Elective Course (100-, 200-, or 300-level)3 Hours6
SpringPHIL 300-level Elective Course3 Hours3
Senior
Fall
PHIL 300-level Elective Course 3PHIL 300-level Elective Course3 Hours6
SpringPHIL Capstone Seminar Course3 Hours3 Total Hours33
Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of the BA in Philosophy students will be able to:

--- Page 578 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 609
•Analyze major texts in the history of philosophy.
•Articulate major philosophical problems and their solutions, such as
questions concerning truth and knowledge, reality, moral values, and
justice.
•Distinguish and explain different philosophical methodologies or
approaches.
•Explain and apply ethical frameworks.
•Evaluate or construct arguments.
Philosophy Minor
In every major area of study there are questions about values or
methodology that philosophy can explore. So, philosophy can deepen
your understanding of your major ﬁeld of study. In addition, philosophy
trains a person to think rigorously about fundamental questions—
to express ideas clearly and logically—to understand and evaluate
conflicting points of view—to reason in a careful way. These intellectual
skills are useful in almost any career. And of course, like every minor,
philosophy is an area of knowledge that has its own intrinsic value.
For further information, please contact the Philosophy
Undergraduate Program Director  (https://www.luc.edu/philosophy/
departmentadministration/ ).
Related Programs
Major
•Philosophy (BA)  (p. 605)
Minor
•Ethics and Moral Philosophy Minor  (p. 603)
Combined
•Philosophy (BA/MA)  (p. 1303 )
•Philosophy/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1306 )
Curriculum
All minors must take at least six courses in philosophy, at least two of
these being 300-level courses.
Each student's minor program must include:
Code Title Hours
Minor RequirementsSelect one lower-level philosophy course from the ethics group:3
PHIL 181 EthicsPHIL 182Social and Political PhilosophyPHIL 283 Business EthicsPHIL 284Health Care EthicsPHIL 285 Contemporary Ethical IssuesPHIL 286Ethics and EducationPHIL 287 Environmental EthicsPHIL 288Culture and CivilizationPHIL 289 Philosophy and GenderSelect one lower-level philosophy course from the epistemology
group:3
PHIL 130 Philosophy & PersonsPHIL 271Philosophy of ReligionPHIL 272 MetaphysicsPHIL 273Philosophy of SciencePHIL 274 LogicPHIL 275Theory of KnowledgePHIL 276 Philosophy of MindPHIL 277AestheticsPHIL 279 Judgment and Decision-MakingTwo PHIL Elective Courses at any level (100-, 200-, or 300-level)6Two PHIL 300-level Elective Courses6Total Hours18
You can design a program to ﬁt your own needs. If you plan a law career,
for example, you would likely want to emphasize areas like reasoning,
evidence and political theory. Academic counselors can help you design
a program. What follows are some suggested sequences for students
preparing for careers in law, business, medicine, or religion. Of course,
the general requirements stated above must be incorporated in these
suggested sequences.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for study. Students should consult their advisor for assistance
with course selection.
Suggested Minor Sequence in Pre-Law
Code Title Hours
Select one lower-level philosophy course from the ethics group: 3PHIL 181EthicsSelect one lower-level philosophy course from the metaphysics/
epistemology group:3PHIL 274LogicSelect two PHIL Elective Courses at any level, with the following
being recommendations:6PHIL 182Social and Political PhilosophyPHIL 275 Theory of Knowledge
or PHIL 330 Theory of KnowledgeSelect two PHIL 300-level Elective Courses, with the following being
recommendations:6
PHIL 323 Philosophy of LawPHIL 326Political Philosophyor PHIL 327Topics in Political PhilosophyPHIL 375Philosophy of MarxismTotal Hours18
Suggested Minor Sequence in Pre-Business
Code Title Hours
Select one lower-level philosophy course from the ethics group: 3PHIL 181EthicsSelect one lower-level philosophy course from the metaphysics/
epistemology group:3PHIL 274LogicSelect two PHIL Elective Courses at any level, with the following
being recommendations:6PHIL 182Social and Political Philosophy

--- Page 579 ---
610  Physics
PHIL 275 Theory of Knowledge
or PHIL 330 Theory of KnowledgePHIL 285Contemporary Ethical IssuesSelect two PHIL 300-level Elective Courses, with the following being
recommendations:6PHIL 321Ethics and SocietyPHIL 326 Political Philosophy
or PHIL 327 Topics in Political PhilosophyPHIL 323Philosophy of LawPHIL 375Philosophy of MarxismTotal Hours18
Suggested Minor Sequence in Pre-Health
Code Title Hours
Select one lower-level philosophy course from the ethics group: 3PHIL 181EthicsSelect one lower-level philosophy course from the metaphysics/
epistemology group:3PHIL 273Philosophy of Scienceor PHIL 381Philosophy of Science
Select two PHIL Elective Courses at any level, with the following
being recommendations:6PHIL 182Social and Political PhilosophyPHIL 284 Health Care EthicsSelect two PHIL 300-level Elective Courses, with the following being
recommendations:6
PHIL 321 Ethics and SocietyPHIL 369Philosophy of MedicineTotal Hours18
Suggested Minor Sequence in Religion
Code Title Hours
Select one lower-level philosophy course from the ethics group: 3PHIL 181EthicsSelect one lower-level philosophy course from the metaphysics/
epistemology group:3PHIL 271Philosophy of ReligionSelect two PHIL Elective Courses at any level, with the following
being recommendations:6PHIL 305Medieval PhilosophyPHIL 340 Philosophy of St Thomas AquinasSelect two PHIL 300-level Elective Courses, with the following being
recommendations:6
PHIL 310 Issues in Philosophy of Human NaturePHIL 312Problems in the Philosophy of GodPHIL 380Topics in Philosophy of ReligionTotal Hours18
Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of the Minor in Philosophy students will be able to:
•Analyze major texts in the history of philosophy.
•Articulate major philosophical problems and their solutions, such as
questions concerning truth and knowledge, reality, moral values, and
justice.•Distinguish and explain different philosophical methodologies or
approaches.
•Explain and apply ethical frameworks.
•Evaluate or construct arguments.
Physics
About Us
Located on the beautiful, Lakeshore campus of Loyola Univeristy Chicago
in Cudahy Science Hall, the Department of Physics prepares students for
future STEM careers. Students in the Department of Physics will learn
the principles of physics, contribute to new physical knowledge and
seek to foster scientiﬁc integrity. These goals are consistent with the
mission of Loyola University Chicago: searching for truth and living for
others. The Department strives to create a welcoming environment for its
students that encourages student success and supports their well being
as they work toward their career goals at Loyola. The Department and the
Physics Club hold several social events each year to build community
among the Loyola physics students and faculty.
We offer several undergraduate degree plans  (p. 611) with BS
degree programs in Physics, Biophysics, Theoretical Physics/Applied
Mathematics and Physics/Computer Science. We also offer a special
dual degree in physics and engineering, wherein students receive a
BS in Physics from Loyola and a bachelor of engineering degree from
an afﬁliated school. In collaboration with the School of Education, the
department also offers a BS/MEd degree that prepares students to teach
in high schools. In addition, the department serves a large number of
students seeking to satisfy ancillary requirements for other majors, core
curriculum requirements, as well as pre-health-professional requirements
for medical, dental, and pharmacy schools.
The Department has several areas of active physics research, including
astroparticle physics, computational physics, cosmology, biophysics,
fluid dynamics, optics, and quantum mechanics. Students have the
opportunity to explore these different areas of physics research with
faculty  (https://www.luc.edu/physics/research/ ) and are encouraged
to participate in projects. Students often present their research at local
and national conferences, and they can receive fellowships  (https://
www.luc.edu/physics/undergraduateexperiences/researchfellowships/ )
from LUC to support their research.
You can read more about the undergraduate experience offered by the
Physics Department here. Please explore the website or contact the
department chair for more information about our department.
Loyola Physics Department  
300 Cudahy Science Hall 
1032 W. Sheridan Rd. 
Chicago, Illinois 60660 
Phone: 773.508.3533 
Fax: 773.508.3534
Physics in the Science Core
The Physics Department offers several courses for non-science majors
seeking to satisfy natural science core curriculum requirements:
PHYS 101 Liberal Arts Physics , PHYS 102 Planetary and Stellar
Astronomy , and PHYS 106 Physics of Music . These courses emphasize
an appreciation of the basic laws, overall structure, and beauty of the
physical universe. In addition, as part of the natural science core, these
courses discuss the scientiﬁc method, and stress the importance

--- Page 580 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 611
of methodological competence as well as ethics in forming critical
judgments on technically oriented societal issues. More information
on Loyola's Core Curriculum can be found here  (https://www.luc.edu/
physics/undergraduateexperiences/ ).
Undergraduate Programs
•Biophysics (BS)  (p. 615)
•Physics (BS)  (p. 617)
•Physics (BS) + Engineering (BS)  (p. 619)
•Physics Minor  (p. 620)
•Physics/Secondary Education (BS/MEd)  (p. 1310 )
•Physics with Computer Science (BS)  (p. 621)
•Theoretical Physics and Applied Mathematics (BS)  (p. 537)
•Theoretical Physics and Applied Mathematics/Applied Statistics (BS/
MS) (p. 1393 )
•Theoretical Physics and Applied Mathematics/Mathematics (BS/MS)
(p. 1396 )
Physics Department Academic Policies
Mathematics Readiness
Entering students with American College Test (ACT) mathematics scores
of 25 or higher, or Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT) mathematics scores
of 570 or higher, automatically qualify to start the sequence of physics
courses for the major in physics. Students who do not so qualify should
consult the physics chairperson to determine the appropriate sequence
of courses.
Policy on Multiple Majors and Minors
The following modiﬁes and clariﬁes the " Double-Dipping  (https://
www.luc.edu/media/lucedu/cas/pdfs/Double%20Dipping%20Policy.pdf )"
policy of the College of Arts & Sciences, as it pertains to the Department
of Physics.
The following degree programs are housed in or jointly housed in the
Physics Department:
1.Bachelor of Science in Physics (PHYS-BS)
2.Bachelor of Science in Biophysics (BPHY-BS)
3.Bachelor of Science in Physics with Computer Science (PCSC-BS)
4.Bachelor of Science in Theoretical Physics/Applied Mathematics
(TPAM-BS)
5.Physics Minor (PHYS-MINR)
They will be referred to as “majors or minor in the Physics Department” in
this document.
•A combination of PHYS-BS and PCSC-BS is not allowed .
•Any other combination of two majors in the Physics Department
(aside from PCSC-BS) is allowed.
•Any combination of three majors in the Physics Department is not
allowed .
•PHYS-MINR is not allowed  together with any major housed in Physics
Department.
•A Mathematics Minor (MATH-MINR) is not allowed  together with
TPAM-BS, but is allowed  with any other major in the Physics
Department. For qualifying students, the MATH-MINR may be earned
by taking one additional, upper-level mathematics course (MATH
3XX).•A Computer Science Minor (COMP-MINR) is not allowed  together with
PCSC-BS.
•An Information Technology Minor (ITEC-MINR) is not allowed  together
with PCSC-BS.
•The combination of a B.S. in Mathematics (MATH-BS) and any single
major housed in the Physics department is allowed .
•A triple major of MATH-BS, TPAM-BS, and any other major housed in
the Physics Department is not allowed .
•A triple-major combination of PCSC-BS, PHYS-BS, and any of the
following: B.S. in “Communication Networks and Security” (CNWS-
BS), “Computer Science” (COMP-BS), “Information Technology” (ITEC-
BS), or “Software Engineering” (SWEN-BS) is not allowed .
•A triple-major combination of PHYS-BS, BPHY-BS, and any of the
following: B.S. in Biology (BIOL-BS), Biology with Molecular Biology
Emphasis (BIOM-BS), or Biology with Ecology Emphasis (BIOE-BS) is
not allowed .
Grade Requirements
A grade of "C-" or better must be earned in all physics courses  required for
the major or minor in physics.
Continuation in the Major
A student will be withdrawn from any major offered by the Physics
Department if either of the following conditions exist:
1.The student receives two grades less than C- (excluding grades of W
but including grades of WF) in a two year period in courses required
for the major (including courses offered by the Math and Computer
Science departments).
2.The student has a cumulative GPA in majors’ courses (including the
ancillary courses) less than 2.00 after completion of the ﬁrst two year
sequence (i.e., upon completion of MATH 264 Ordinary Differential
Equations  and PHYS 301 Mathematical Methods in Physics  and
PHYS 314 Theoretical Mechanics I ).
The chair of the Physics Department may reinstate the student in
exceptional cases.
Prerequisite Courses
PHYS 121 College Physics I with Calculus Lecture/Discussion  and
PHYS 122 College Physics II with Calculus Lecture/Discussion  are
basic prerequisites for all physics courses. PHYS 111 College Physics I
Lec / Dis , PHYS 112 College Physics II Lec/Disc  will be accepted in lieu
of these courses with the permission of the department chairperson.
Mathematics courses listed as prerequisites to a physics course may,
with the permission of the chairperson, be taken concurrently with the
physics course or may be excluded in special instances. MATH 264
Ordinary Differential Equations  is a prerequisite to all 300 level physics
courses. Part II of a given course may not be taken before Part I.
Advanced Placement in Physics
Entering non-majors who have received scores of 4 or higher on the
Physics B or Physics C Advanced Placement examinations of the College
Entrance Examination Board are eligible to receive college credit for the
corresponding lecture courses. A score of 4 or higher in the Physics C
examination, plus departmental approval, are necessary for receipt of
credit by majors. No credit is available for laboratory courses.

--- Page 581 ---
612  Physics
Requirements for Departmental Honors
In addition to the general requirements for the major, a student seeking
departmental honors must satisfy the following two criteria:
•Minimum overall GPA of 3.7
•Department-approved research project that culminates in a journal
article, seminar presentation, or conference proceeding.
Qualifying students must email the Department Chair (Constantin
Rasinariu) for departmental approval. Students should then submit the
approval to their CAS advisor.
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Physics (PHYS)
PHYS 101   Liberal Arts Physics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 101 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
For non-science majors. Selected topics from classical and modern
physics emphasizing beauty, symmetry, and simplicity. Contemporary
issues of physics and society.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Scientiﬁc Knowledge   
Outcomes:
Understanding of interaction between theory and experiment, role of
physics in society, science vs. nonscience; solve problems using algebra,
geometry, vectors, and graphs; synthesize disparate physics topics
PHYS 102   Planetary and Stellar Astronomy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 101 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course covers the astronomy of the solar system and planetary
science as well as the astronomy of stars and galaxies. This includes
study of earth and comparative study of all the planets, as well as the
birth, evolution, and death of stars, the clustering of stars and galaxies,
the expanding universe and cosmology.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Scientiﬁc Knowledge   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the fundamental
knowledge and concepts in astronomy, the qualitative and quantitative
reasoning used, and how this science can be applied
PHYS 106   Physics of Music   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 101 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
Language, structure, history and styles of music; motion, force, energy
and waves applied to production of sound; physical properties of
instruments and musical acoustics.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Scientiﬁc Knowledge   
Outcomes:
Knowledge of music fundamentals; understand how instruments
function; apply physics concepts and experimentation to analyze the
production of music and acousticsPHYS 111   College Physics I Lec / Dis   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Math Placement Test or MATH 118   
Non-calculus introduction to vectors, kinematics, Newtonian mechanics
of translational, rotational, and oscillatory motion, energy and momentum
conservation, and thermodynamics.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Understanding of analytical description of motion and application of
conservation laws; develop scientiﬁc insight and proﬁciency in solving
representative problems
PHYS 111L   College Physics Laboratory I   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre- or co-requisites:  PHYS 111 or PHYS 121; Prerequisite: MATH 118 or
MDT   
Laboratories cover selected topics in introductory mechanics, including
freefall, uniform circular motion, work-energy, collisions, rotational
motion, and harmonic motion.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Experience and familiarity with basic measuring devices and simple
mechanics equipment; Understand measurement errors and their
propagation, plotting and interpretation of data, the connection between
theory and experiment for selected topics in elementary mechanics
PHYS 112   College Physics II Lec/Disc   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHYS 111 or equivalent   
PHYS 111 and 112 provide a non-calculus introduction to physics. Topics
include electricity and magnetism, sound, optics, and selected topics
from modern physics.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Course equivalencies:  PHYS112/PHYS112K/PHYS122   
Outcomes:
Understand and apply electromagnetism to 2- and 3-dimensional
problems in physical and biological sciences
PHYS 112L   College Physics Lab II   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  PHYS 112 or PHYS 122 (may also be taken as corequisite);
also prerequisite PHYS 111L; For ESBE, ESCE, and ESEE majors only:
Prerequisite or corequisite of PHYS 122   
Laboratories cover selected topics in electrical circuits and optics,
including DC circuits, resonance in AC circuits, ray optics, and prism and
grating spectrometers.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Understand the connection between theory and experiment for selected
topics in elementary electrical circuits and optics; Experience and
familiarity with DC power supplies, digital multi-meters, function
generators, oscilloscopes, mirrors, lenses, and spectrometers; Ability to
correlate simple electronic schematic diagrams with actual circuits
PHYS 121   College Physics I with Calculus Lecture/Discussion   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Co-requisites:  MATH 131 or MATH 161   
Calculus-based introduction to vectors, kinematics, Newtonian
mechanics of translational, rotational, and oscillatory motion, energy and
momentum conservation, and thermodynamics.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Understanding of analytical description of motion and application of
conservation laws; develop scientiﬁc insight and proﬁciency in solving
representative problems

--- Page 582 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 613
PHYS 122   College Physics II with Calculus Lecture/Discussion   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHYS 121; Corequisite: MATH 132 or MATH 162   
Calculus-based introduction to electricity and magnetism, sound, optics,
and selected topics from modern physics.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Course equivalencies:  PHYS112/PHYS112K/PHYS122   
Outcomes:
Understand and apply electromagnetism to 2- and 3-dimensional
problems in physical and biological sciences
PHYS 125   General Physics I Lec/Dis   (4 Credit Hours)   
Co-requisites:  PHYS 125L and MATH 161   
This is a calculus-based introductory course that covers Mechanics and
Thermodynamics. It is designed for physics majors or minors and dual-
degree engineering students.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Understanding of vectors, forces, Newtonian mechanics related to
translational, rotational, and oscillatory motion; thermodynamics
PHYS 125L   General Physics Laboratory I   (1 Credit Hour)   
Co-requisites:  PHYS 125   
Laboratories cover selected topics in introductory mechanics, including
freefall, uniform circular motion, work-energy, collisions, rotational
motion, and harmonic motion. Includes a freshmen project.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Experience and familiarity with basic measuring devices and simple
mechanics equipment; Understand measurement errors and their
propagation, plotting and interpretation of data, the connection between
theory and experiment for selected topics in elementary mechanics
PHYS 126   General Physics II Lec/Dis   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHYS 125; Corequisites: PHYS 126F , PHYS 126L &
MATH 162; Department Consent Required   
A continuation of PHYS 125, covering Electricity and magnetism, sound,
optics.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Understanding of electrostatics, magnetostatics, time varying currents,
resistive, capacitative and inductive elements, electromagnetic and
sound waves, geometrical and wave optics, introductory special relativity
PHYS 126F   Freshman Projects   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  PHYS 111 or 121 (C- or better); Enrollment restricted to
PHYS, BPHY, TPAM, and PCSC majors Outcomes: Students should gain a
deeper understanding of the material covered in introductory physics and
learn about research methods employed by physicists   
Under the guidance of a faculty member, students perform research on
a physics-related topic through a semester-long project. The project
involves development of a proposal, building of experimental apparatus,
data collection/analysis, and theoretical calculations.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   PHYS 126L   General Physics Laboratory II   (1 Credit Hour)   
Co-requisites:  PHYS 126   
Laboratories cover selected topics in electrical circuits and optics,
including DC circuits, resonance in AC circuits, ray optics, and prism and
grating spectrometers. Includes a freshmen project.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Outcomes:
Experience and familiarity with DC power supplies, digital multimeters,
function generators, oscilloscopes, mirrors, lenses, and spectrometers;
Ability to correlate simple electronic schematic diagrams with actual
circuits; Understand the connection between theory and experiment for
selected topics in elementary electrical circuits and optics
PHYS 130   Introduction to Computational Physics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHYS 121 (C- or better); Corequisite: PHYS 122   
This is an introductory computational physics course. The course will
cover basic computational skills using Python and common scientiﬁc
Python packages. We will solve a set of programming exercises that
enhances both the understanding of introductory physics (Newton's laws,
work, energy, momentum) and physics problem solving skills.
Outcomes:
Students should be able to write a Python program to perform numerical
calculations in physics and gain computational skills that would be
utilized in upper division physics coursework and research
PHYS 235   Modern Physics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHYS 122 (C- or better); Corequisites: PHYS 235L and
MATH 263; Enrollment is restricted to PHYS, BPHY, TPAM and PCSC
majors and PHYS minors   
This course covers the Special Theory of Relativity and Introductory
Quantum Mechanics.
Outcomes:
Understand the relative nature of space and time; the duality of waves
and particles; the microscopic structure of matter and its macroscopic
consequences
PHYS 235L   Modern Physics Laboratory   (1 Credit Hour)   
Co-requisites:  PHYS 235   
Modern physics experiments including electromagnetic waves
(microwaves), interferometry, spectroscopy, electron and quantum
physics, and solid-state physics.
Outcomes:
Students will gain hands on experience and familiarity with experiments
from early modern physics, the ability to use spreadsheets and symbolic
algebraic software for problem solving and data interpretation, and
experience documenting and reporting results including historical
background searches
PHYS 266   Digital Electronics Lab   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHYS 126 and MATH 162   
Combinatorial and sequential logic devices, oscillators and timers,
microprocessor components, CPU operation, computer architecture and
digital/analog conversion.
Course equivalencies:  X-PHYS266/COMP266   
Outcomes:
Students will gain a working knowledge of digital electronics design
and its application to computers, an understanding of CPU design and
operation and the ability to document and report experimental results

--- Page 583 ---
614  Physics
PHYS 301   Mathematical Methods in Physics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHYS 235; Corequisite: MATH 264   
Lecture and computer laboratory; Mathematical and computer methods
in physics and engineering; Topics include vector calculus, functions
of a complex variable, phasors, Fourier analysis, linear transformations,
matrices, ﬁrst and second order differential equations, special functions,
numerical and symbolic computer applications.
Course equivalencies:  X-PHYS301/PHYS271/MATH355   
PHYS 303   Electronics I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHYS 122 (C- or better); Corequisite: PHYS 303L;
Enrollment restricted to PHYS, BPHY, TPAM, PCSC majors and PHYS
minors   
Study of analog electronics, including direct and alternating circuit
analysis, resonant circuits, diodes, transistors, ampliﬁers, operational
ampliﬁers, noise, feedback and oscillators.
Outcomes:
Students will understand and manipulate equations and concepts, and
gain experience with electronics equipment, plotting and interpretation
of data, synthesizing and writing laboratory results, and the formal verbal
presentation of results
PHYS 303L   Electronics Laboratory   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  PHYS 122 (C- or better); Corequisite: PHYS 303; Enrollment
restricted to PHYS, BPHY, TPAM, PCSC majors and PHYS minors   
Students will learn to use various electronic components, instruments,
techniques, and applications. This course is the lab component for
PHYS 303.
Outcomes:
Students should get a deeper understanding of the material covered in
PHYS 303 (Analog and digital electronics) by experimentally verifying
many of the concepts covered in that course; Students will also learn to
recognize various components and develop conﬁdence in using them
PHYS 310   Optics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHYS 235 (C- or better); Corequisite: PHYS 310L;
Enrollment restricted to PHYS, BPHY, TPAM, PCSC majors and PHYS
minors   
The course covers electromagnetic nature of light, geometrical optics,
polarization, Fresnel relations, interference, Fraunhofer and Fresnel
diffraction, Fourier optics, lasers, and holography.
Outcomes:
Students will gain knowledge of the principles of classical and modern
optics, the role of optics in the development of quantum mechanics and
its applications to modern technology
PHYS 310L   Optics Lab   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  PHYS 235 (C- or better); Corequisite: PHYS 310; Enrollment
restricted to PHYS, BPHY, TPAM, PCSC majors and PHYS minors   
Students will learn to use various optical components, instruments,
techniques, and applications. This course is the lab component to
PHYS 310.
Outcomes:
Students should get a deeper understanding of the material covered in
PHYS 310 (Geometrical and wave optics) by experimentally verifying
many of the concepts covered in that course; Students will also learn to
recognize various components and develop conﬁdence in using themPHYS 314   Theoretical Mechanics I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHYS 122 (C- or better); Corequisites: MATH 264 and
PHYS 301 Outcomes: Students will gain understanding of analytical
and numerical methods of mechanics, understanding of principles
in dynamics, and experience in applying formalisms of Lagrange and
Hamilton to mechanics in preparation for other areas of physics and
engineering   
Newtonian particle dynamics, conservation theorems, oscillations,
gravitation, generalized coordinates, Lagrange and Hamilton formalisms.
PHYS 315   Theoretical Mechanics II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHYS 314   
This course is a continuation of PHYS 314 and covers dynamics of
system of particles, moving coordinates, rigid body dynamics, systems of
oscillators, motion in a central force ﬁeld, relativity.
Outcomes:
Students will gain understanding of analytical and numerical methods of
mechanics, and of the laws of dynamics and their applications
PHYS 328   Thermal Physical & Statistical Mechanics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHYS 235 and PHYS 301   
This course examines the fundamental concepts of temperature, entropy,
and thermodynamic equilibrium, the ﬁrst and second law, engines, the
third law, and Boltzmann, Fermi-Dirac, and Bose-Einstein statistics.
Outcomes:
Students will learn to compare thermodynamical versus statistical
characterizations of macroscopic systems with applications ranging
from analyzing Fermi gases and black body radiation to information
theory
PHYS 338   Advanced Physics Laboratory   (2 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHYS 301 and PHYS 314; Restricted to PHYS, TPAM, PCSC,
and BPHY majors   
Lab course with advanced experiments in mechanics, biophysics,
electromagnetism, quantum mechanics, solid state, and particle physics.
Students will receive training in data analysis methods, data acquisition
systems, signal processing, and 3D fabrication. Students will work in
teams on a ﬁnal independent project.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of experiment design, data analysis,
and error estimation in the context of investigating physical principles
and using different instrumentation
PHYS 351   Electricity and Magnetism I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHYS 235, 301 & MATH 264   
Electrostatics and magnetostatics in a vacuum as well as in linear media,
and an introduction to electrodynamics.
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of mathematical methods of
electrodynamics, of static electricity and magnetism including Coulomb's,
Gauss', Ampere's, and Faraday's laws and their applications, and of
solutions of Laplace's and Maxwell's equations
PHYS 352   Electricity and Magnetism II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHYS 351   
Introduction to electrodynamics and the special theory of relativity.
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of electromagnetic ﬁeld energy
and momentum, Maxwell's equations and their applications including
electromagnetic radiation and emission, involving retarded potentials and
Lorentz covariance

--- Page 584 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 615
PHYS 361   Quantum Mechanics I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHYS 235 & PHYS 301   
Non-relativistic quantum mechanics.
Outcomes:
Students will understand and use separation of variables, ﬁnite
polynomials, and matrix algebra to solve the Schroedinger equation,
explain microscopic structure of matter, and describe philosophical
interpretations of quantum mechanics
PHYS 371   Biophysics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  For Biology and Molecular Biology majors: BIOL 251,
(PHYS 112 or 122), and (MATH 132 or 162); For all other majors:
PHYS 235 and BIOL 101   
An upper-level course in biological physics focused on a quantitative
description of the physical processes driving molecular and cellular
processes with an emphasis on experiment design and analysis.
Outcomes:
Students will understand how to apply physical principles and
probabilistic analysis toward the study of biological phenomena at
molecular and cellular levels
PHYS 380   Special Topics in Physics   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Instructor's permission   
This variable (1-3) credit enrichment course introduces students to a
topic not generally covered in other courses. This course can be repeated.
Outcomes:
Students will understand the material of the course and develop an ability
to apply the knowledge gained to other contexts
PHYS 381   Special Topics in Physics   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Instructor's permission   
This variable (1-3) credit enrichment course introduces students to a
topic not generally covered in other courses. This course can be repeated.
Outcomes:
Students understand the material of the course and develop an ability to
apply the knowledge gained to other contexts
PHYS 391   Research   (1-12 Credit Hours)   
Research in physics or an associated ﬁeld. This is a variable credit course
and can be repeated.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  PHYS391 / PHYS385 / PHYS386   
Outcomes:
Under the guidance of a faculty member, students study and understand
research methods employed by physicists and gain a deeper
understanding of a particular area of physics
PHYS 394   Argonne Lab Research   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Chairperson's permission and acceptance by appropriate
program   
Study and research at the Argonne National Laboratory. Only those
students who are accepted into the Argonne National Laboratory's
student program (or similar programs elsewhere) are eligible. No tuition is
charged.
Outcomes:
Students will work with a research group at Argonne or other laboratory
to understand research methods employed by physicists and get a
deeper understanding of a particular area of physicsPHYS 395   Argonne Lab Research   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Chairperson's permission and acceptance by appropriate
program   
Study and research at the Argonne National Laboratory. Only those
students who are accepted into the Argonne National Laboratory's
student program (or similar programs elsewhere) are eligible. No tuition is
charged.
Outcomes:
Students will work with a research group at Argonne or other laboratory
to understand research methods employed by physicists and get a
deeper understanding of a particular area of physics
Biophysics (BS)
The Biophysics major is an interdisciplinary program on the cutting edge
of new developments in the biosciences. Offered by the Departments of
Physics and Biology, the biophysics major provides rigorous training in
biosciences, mathematics, and lab skills. The degree prepares students
for research careers in biophysics, biochemistry, biomedical engineering,
and physics. Biophysics is an ideal major for students considering
careers in medicine, optometry, dentistry, and other applied health
sciences.
Related Programs
Major
•Biology (BS)  (p. 299)
•Physics (BS)  (p. 617)
Minor
•Biostatistics Minor  (p. 310)
•Physics Minor  (p. 620)
Curriculum
This course of study prepares one for careers in medicine, medical
research, nano-sciences, biophysics, medical physics, biomedical
engineering, and biotechnology. A strong physics and mathematics
background is fortiﬁed with biology and chemistry classes.  A minimum
grade of C- must be earned to satisfy a course requirement and a 2.0
minimum overall GPA is required for each
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesPhysicsPHYS 121 College Physics I with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3PHYS 111LCollege Physics Laboratory I1
PHYS 122 College Physics II with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3PHYS 126FFreshman Projects1
PHYS 112L College Physics Lab II 1PHYS 235Modern Physics3
PHYS 235L Modern Physics Laboratory 1PHYS 301Mathematical Methods in Physics3
PHYS 314 Theoretical Mechanics I 3PHYS 351Electricity and Magnetism I3
Physics ElectiveSelect one of the following:3

--- Page 585 ---
616  Biophysics (BS)
PHYS 310 OpticsPHYS 328Thermal Physical & Statistical MechanicsPHYS 361 Quantum Mechanics IBiologySelect one of the following: 1-3BIOL 101General Biology IBIOL 111 General Biology I LabBIOL 251Cell BiologyBIOL 282 GeneticsBiophysics Elective OptionsStudents must complete 10 credit hours to fulﬁll this requirement
from the following:10BIOL 102General Biology II 1or COMP 180Computing and Data Analysis for the Sciences
BIOL 112 General Biology II LabBIOL 252Cell Biology LaboratoryBIOL 283 Genetics LaboratoryBIOL 317Models of Human DiseaseBIOL 335 /
STAT 335Intro to BiostatisticsBIOL 366Cell Physiology & BiochemistryBIOL 366L Cell Physiology & Biochemistry LabBIOL 387GenomicsBIOL 388 BioinformaticsBIOL 390Molecular Biology LaboratoryBIOL 382 Molecular GeneticsCOMP 180Computing and Data Analysis for the Sciences 1PHYS 130 Introduction to Computational Physics 1PHYS 310LOptics LabPHYS 338 Advanced Physics LaboratoryPHYS 371BiophysicsPHYS 391 Research 2General Chemistry A: Lecture, Discussion & LabCHEM 101 
& CHEM 111General Chemistry A Lecture/Discussion 
and General Chemistry Lab A4General Chemistry B: Lecture, Discussion & LabCHEM 102 
& CHEM 112General Chemistry B Lecture/Discussion 
and General Chemistry Lab B  34Organic Chemistry A: Lecture, Discussion & LabCHEM 223 
& CHEM 225Organic Chemistry A Lec/Disc 
and Organic Chemistry Lab A  44Organic Chemistry B: Lecture, Discussion & LabCHEM 224 
& CHEM 226Organic Chemistry B Lec/Disc 
and Organic Chemistry Lab B  54MathematicsMATH 161 Calculus I 4MATH 162Calculus II4
MATH 263 Multivariable Calculus 4MATH 264Ordinary Differential Equations3Total Hours67-69
1Students may receive degree credit for only one of the following:
BIOL 102 , COMP 180 , or PHYS 130 .2Students may only count 1 credit hour of PHYS 391 Research  toward
the degree.
3CHEM 106 Basic Inorganic Chemistry  may be substituted
4CHEM 221 Organic Chemistry I Lec/Disc  may be substituted
5CHEM 222 Organic Chemistry II Lec/Disc  may be substituted
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
First Year
Fall
PHYS 121 College Physics I with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3PHYS 111LCollege Physics Laboratory I1
MATH 161 Calculus I 4CHEM 160Chemical Structure and Properties3
CHEM 161 Chemical Structure and Properties
Laboratory1UCWR 110Writing Responsibly3 Hours15
SpringPHYS 122College Physics II with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3
PHYS 112L College Physics Lab II 1PHYS 126FFreshman Projects1
MATH 162 Calculus II 4CHEM 180Chemical Reactivity I3
CHEM 181 Chemical Reactivity I Lab 1Core3 Hours16
Second Year
FallPHYS 235Modern Physics3
PHYS 235L Modern Physics Laboratory 1MATH 263Multivariable Calculus4
MATH 264 Ordinary Differential Equations 13CHEM 240Chemical Reactivity II3CHEM 241Chemical Reactivity II Laboratory1 Hours15
Spring
PHYS 301 Mathematical Methods in Physics 3CHEM 260Quantitative Methods in Chemistry3
CHEM 261 Quantitative Methods in Chemistry
Laboratory1BIOL 101General Biology I3
BIOL 102 General Biology II 3Core3 Hours16

--- Page 586 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 617
Third Year
FallPHYS 351Electricity and Magnetism I3
BIOL 251 Cell Biology 3BIOL 282Genetics3
Core 3Core3 Hours15
SpringPHYS 314Theoretical Mechanics I3
BPHY 300-Level Elective 3PHYS 310Optics 23
PHYS 310L Optics Lab 21Core3Core3 Hours16
Fourth Year
Fall
BPHY 300-Level Elective 3Core3
Core 3Core3Core3 Hours15
Spring
BPHY 300-Level Elective 3Core3
Core 3Core3General Elective2 Hours14 Total Hours122
1Students can take MATH 264  in the spring semester of their second
year, but it would be best taken before PHYS 301 .
2PHYS 310 Optics /PHYS 310L Optics Lab  can be taken in the spring of
the fourth year
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSNprogram are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Demonstrate foundational knowledge in physics and biology, and the
acquisition of new knowledge via the scientiﬁc method.           
•Develop a deeper understanding of the connection between the
biological and the physical sciences.      
•Understand and be able to employ laboratory techniques and
computer skills used in biological and physical science labs.      
•Possess an understanding of the intermediate level mathematics
needed to model and solve problems based in the physical and
biological sciences.  
•Collect and analyze data to develop, reﬁne, or falsify scientiﬁc
theories. 
•Learn effective and ethical methods for collaborating with others on
scientiﬁc and technical projects.
Physics (BS)
The Physics major provides rigorous training in mathematics and
physics with courses in statistical thermodynamics, electricity and
magnetism and quantum mechanics as well as labs in optics, and
electronics. Physics graduates pursue careers in industry, government
labs, economics, and medicine. The program also prepares students for
graduate education in physics, computer science, engineering, a nd law.
Pre-health physics majors often receive high placement scores on the
MCAT and other entrance exams.
Related Programs
Major
•Physics with Computer Science (BS)  (p. 621)
Minor
•Physics Minor  (p. 620)
Combined
•Physics (BS) + Engineering (BS)  (p. 619)
Curriculum
The physics major includes courses in all the fundamental areas of
physics at the beginning and intermediate level. Students have the
opportunity to take special topics courses that provide an advanced
background in speciﬁc areas of physics. The curriculum includes a
strong background in mathematics, laboratory experience, and computer
methods.  A minimum grade of C- must be earned to satisfy a course
requirement and a 2.0 minimum overall GPA is required for each major
or minor. Final conﬁrmation of degree requirements is subject to
department, school, and university approval.
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesPhysics IPHYS 121 
& PHYS 111LCollege Physics I with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion 
and College Physics Laboratory I4Physics II

--- Page 587 ---
618  Physics (BS)
PHYS 122 
& PHYS 112LCollege Physics II with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion 
and College Physics Lab II4Required Physics CoursesPHYS 126F Freshman Projects 1PHYS 130Introduction to Computational Physics3
PHYS 235 Modern Physics 3PHYS 235LModern Physics Laboratory1
PHYS 301 Mathematical Methods in Physics 3PHYS 303Electronics I3
PHYS 303L Electronics Laboratory 1PHYS 310Optics3
PHYS 310L Optics Lab 1PHYS 314Theoretical Mechanics I3
PHYS 328 Thermal Physical & Statistical Mechanics 3PHYS 338Advanced Physics Laboratory2
PHYS 351 Electricity and Magnetism I 3PHYS 361Quantum Mechanics I3
Ancillary MathMATH 161Calculus I4
MATH 162 Calculus II 4MATH 263Multivariable Calculus4MATH 264Ordinary Differential Equations3Total Hours56
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
First Year
Fall
PHYS 121 College Physics I with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3PHYS 111LCollege Physics Laboratory I1
MATH 161 Calculus I 4UCWR 110Writing Responsibly3Core3 Hours14
Spring
PHYS 122 College Physics II with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3PHYS 112LCollege Physics Lab II1
PHYS 126F Freshman Projects 1MATH 162Calculus II4
PHYS 130 Introduction to Computational Physics 3Core3 Hours15
Second Year
FallPHYS 235Modern Physics3PHYS 235L Modern Physics Laboratory 1MATH 263Multivariable Calculus4
MATH 264 Ordinary Differential Equations 13Core3General Elective2 Hours16
Spring
PHYS 301 Mathematical Methods in Physics 3PHYS 314Theoretical Mechanics I3
Core 3Core3Core3 Hours15
Third Year
Fall
PHYS 351 Electricity and Magnetism I 3PHYS 328Thermal Physical & Statistical Mechanics3
Core 3Core3Core3 Hours15
Spring
PHYS 361 Quantum Mechanics I 3PHYS 310Optics3
PHYS 310L Optics Lab 1Core3
Core 3Core3 Hours16
Fourth Year
FallPHYS 303Electronics I 23
PHYS 303L Electronics Laboratory 21Core3
General Electives 3General Electives3General Electives2 Hours15
Spring
PHYS 338 Advanced Physics Laboratory 2General Electives3
General Electives 3General Electives3General Electives3 Hours14 Total Hours120
1Students can take MATH 264  in the spring semester of their second
year, but it would be best taken before PHYS 301 .
2Students can take PHYS 303  & PHYS 303L  in the fall semester of their
third or fourth year.  Many choose to take it in the fourth year if the third
year spring is already challenging.

--- Page 588 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 619
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Demonstrate foundational knowledge in the physical sciences and
the acquisition of new knowledge via the scientiﬁc method
•Understand and be able to employ laboratory techniques and
computer skills used in physical science labs.
•Use mathematical techniques to model physical systems and extract
both quantitative and qualitative descriptions of their behavior.
•Collect and analyze data to develop, reﬁne, or falsify scientiﬁc
theories. 
•Learn effective and ethical methods for collaborating with others on
scientiﬁc and technical projects.
Physics (BS) + Engineering (BS)
If you are a student who recognizes the value of broadening your
educational experience to include one of the fundamental sciences, as
well as liberal arts and engineering, Loyola University Chicago's Dual-
Degree Physics/Engineering Program may be just right for you.
Through the Physics (BS) + Engineering (BS) program, students can earn
two baccalaureate degrees: a BS in Physics from Loyola and a bachelor's
in Engineering from an afﬁliated engineering school. In this ﬁve-year
program, students complete a three-year degree plan in physics at Loyola
and then two years of concentrated engineering studies at the partner
institution. This is an excellent route for students interested in careers in
aerospace, civil, electrical, and mechanical engineering.
Related Programs
Major
•Physics (BS)  (p. 617)
•Physics with Computer Science (BS)  (p. 621)
Minor
•Physics Minor  (p. 620)
Curriculum
The physics major includes courses in all the fundamental areas of
physics at the beginning and intermediate level. The curriculum includes
a strong background in mathematics, laboratory experience, and
computer methods. A minimum grade of C- must be earned to satisfy
a course requirement and a 2.0 minimum overall GPA is required foreach major or minor. The engineering partner schools have minimum
GPA requirements that must be met for acceptance into their programs.
Additional coursework may be required by the engineering partner school
to satisfy pre-requisites for engineering courses. Final conﬁrmation of
degree requirements is subject to department, school, and university
approval.
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesPhysics IPHYS 121 
& PHYS 111LCollege Physics I with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion 
and College Physics Laboratory I4Physics IIPHYS 122 
& PHYS 112LCollege Physics II with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion 
and College Physics Lab II4Required Physics CoursesPHYS 126F Freshman Projects 1PHYS 130Introduction to Computational Physics3
PHYS 235 Modern Physics 3PHYS 235LModern Physics Laboratory1
PHYS 301 Mathematical Methods in Physics 3PHYS 303Electronics I3
PHYS 303L Electronics Laboratory 1PHYS 310Optics3
PHYS 310L Optics Lab 1PHYS 314Theoretical Mechanics I3
PHYS 328 Thermal Physical & Statistical Mechanics 3PHYS 338Advanced Physics Laboratory2
PHYS 351 Electricity and Magnetism I 3PHYS 361Quantum Mechanics I3
Ancillary MathMATH 161Calculus I4
MATH 162 Calculus II 4MATH 263Multivariable Calculus4MATH 264Ordinary Differential Equations3Total Hours56
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion
of requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well
as the start term for a major.  Students should consult their advisor
for assistance with course selection. Completion of the physics
requirements in three years is not required, but all physics and core
requirements must be completed at Loyola prior to enrollment at the
partner engineering school.
Course Title Hours
Freshman
Fall
PHYS 121 College Physics I with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3PHYS 111LCollege Physics Laboratory I1
MATH 161 Calculus I 4

--- Page 589 ---
620  Physics MinorUCWR 110Writing Responsibly3
CORE 3CORE3 Hours17
SpringPHYS 122College Physics II with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3
PHYS 112L College Physics Lab II 1PHYS 126FFreshman Projects1
PHYS 130 Introduction to Computational Physics 13MATH 162Calculus II4
CORE 3CORE3 Hours18
Sophomore
FallPHYS 235Modern Physics3
PHYS 235L Modern Physics Laboratory 1MATH 263Multivariable Calculus4
MATH 264 Ordinary Differential Equations 3ECON 202Principles of Macroeconomics 23CORE3 Hours17
Spring
PHYS 301 Mathematical Methods in Physics 3PHYS 314Theoretical Mechanics I3
CHEM 160 Chemical Structure and Properties 33CHEM 161Chemical Structure and Properties
Laboratory 31
CORE 3CORE3 Hours16
Junior
FallPHYS 303Electronics I3
PHYS 303L Electronics Laboratory 1PHYS 328Thermal Physical & Statistical Mechanics3
PHYS 351 Electricity and Magnetism I 3CORE3
CORE 3CORE3 Hours19
SpringPHYS 310Optics3
PHYS 310L Optics Lab 1PHYS 338Advanced Physics Laboratory2
PHYS 361 Quantum Mechanics I 3CORE3
CORE 3CORE3 Hours18 Total Hours105
1PHYS 130 Introduction to Computational Physics  should be
substituted with COMP 170 Introduction to Object-Oriented
Programming  for students interested in electrical engineering or
computer engineering programs.
2ECON 202 Principles of Macroeconomics  is required for students
planning to apply to Columbia Engineering Program.
3At least one semester of chemistry is generally required by engineering
partner schools.
Learning Outcomes
In this program, a student can earn two baccalaureate degrees: a
Bachelor of Science in Physics from Loyola University Chicago and a
Bachelor in Engineering from an afﬁliated engineering school. Typically,
three years of study in the social sciences, humanities, mathematics
and physical sciences at Loyola are required, followed by two years of
concentrated engineering studies at the school of engineering.
Loyola University Chicago has formal afﬁliations with Washington
University in St. Louis, Columbia University in New York City, and with
Notre Dame University in South Bend, Indiana.
Students can also choose other schools that suit their interest to
complete the engineering degree. Many of our students have completed
their engineering degrees at other universities such as University of
Illinois Urbana-Champaign, University of Illinois at Chicago, Northwestern
University, University of Michigan, and Iowa State University to complete
their engineering studies.
Using as starting point the outstanding education in the Jesuit tradition
offered by Loyola, which emphasizes breadth and depth of training in the
liberal arts, humanities, and social sciences, upon completion of this dual
degree program students will:
•Gain foundational understanding of physics, a fundamental science
that has broad application in existing and emerging technologies;
•Acquire the intermediate level of mathematical tools needed to
effectively address physics and engineering problems;
•Possess an understanding of the fundamental engineering ﬁelds, and
the ability to apply their combined Physics/Engineering knowledge
to solve real world problems in the engineering ﬁeld of their choosing
(mechanical, chemical, biomedical, electrical, civil industrial,
computer, systems, environmental, and ﬁnancial–engineering);
•Gain an understanding and appreciation of interdisciplinary approach
in the physical and engineering sciences.
Physics Minor
The minor in Physics is a perfect ﬁt for students interested in science and
with aptitude in mathematics, but who do not wish to pursue a c areer in
physics. A minor in physics gives a strong basic background in physics
and mathematics that will enhance a career in other areas such as:
chemistry, biology, social sciences, computational sciences, humanities,
or business.

--- Page 590 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 621
Related Programs
Major
•Biophysics (BS)  (p. 615)
•Physics (BS)  (p. 617)
Minor
•Biostatistics Minor  (p. 310)
Curriculum
A minimum grade of C- must be earned to satisfy a course requirement
and a 2.0 minimum overall GPA is required for each major or minor. Final
conﬁrmation of degree requirements is subject to department, school,
and university approval.
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesPhysics CoursesPHYS 121 College Physics I with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3PHYS 111LCollege Physics Laboratory I1
PHYS 122 College Physics II with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3PHYS 112LCollege Physics Lab II1
PHYS 235 Modern Physics 3PHYS 235LModern Physics Laboratory1
Physics ElectiveSelect one 200/300 level Physics or equivalent course3
MATH 355 Methods of Applied MathematicsPHYS 200-Level CoursePHYS 300-Level CourseMath CoursesMATH 161 Calculus I 4MATH 162Calculus II4
MATH 263 Multivariable Calculus 4MATH 264Ordinary Differential Equations3Total Hours30
Suggested Sequence of Courses 
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term.  Students
should consult their advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
PHYS 121 College Physics I with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3PHYS 111LCollege Physics Laboratory I1MATH 161Calculus I4 Hours8
Spring
PHYS 122 College Physics II with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3PHYS 112LCollege Physics Lab II1MATH 162Calculus II4 Hours8
Year 2
Fall
PHYS 235 Modern Physics 3PHYS 235LModern Physics Laboratory1MATH 263Multivariable Calculus4 Hours8
Spring
MATH 264 Ordinary Differential Equations 3PHYS 300-Level Course3 Hours6 Total Hours30
Learning Outcomes
The minor in Physics is a perfect ﬁt for students interested in science and
with aptitude in mathematics, but who do not wish to pursue a c areer in
physics. A minor in physics gives a strong basic background in physics
and mathematics that will enhance a career in other areas such as:
chemistry, biology, social sciences, computational sciences, humanities,
or business.
Students take the basic lecture and laboratory physics courses with the
physics majors, including a participation in the Freshman Projects; they
also take the basic mathematics courses.
By completing the Minor in Physics, students will:
•Acquire foundational knowledge in the physical sciences
•Possess an understanding of the basic mathematics needed to solve
problems
•Acquire basic skills for analytical thinking and problem solving
•Gain an understanding and appreciation of interdisciplinary approach
involving physical sciences, mathematics and other disciplines.
Physics with Computer Science (BS)
Physics is understood in terms of many mathematical relationships
that are much easier to state than solve, and computer science has
become a major part of many physicists’ work to solve enormous
problems. This major is preparation for graduate study in physics,
applied physics, computer science, and especially in the burgeoning
research ﬁeld of computational physics, as well as in many branches
of engineering. Employment opportunities are in the industries of R&D
and manufacturing, research and teaching in academic institutions, and
research in government and private laboratories.
Related Programs
Major
•Computer Science (BS)  (p. 360)
•Physics (BS)  (p. 617)
Minor
•Physics Minor  (p. 620)

--- Page 591 ---
622  Physics with Computer Science (BS)
Curriculum
This program is similar to the theoretical physics/applied mathematics
option, except that some of the mathematics courses are replaced by
computer science courses. A minimum grade of C- must be earned to
satisfy a course requirement and a 2.0 minimum overall GPA is required
for each major or minor. Final conﬁrmation of degree requirements is
subject to department, school, and university approval.
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesPhysicsPHYS 121 College Physics I with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3PHYS 111LCollege Physics Laboratory I1
PHYS 122 College Physics II with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3PHYS 126FFreshman Projects1
PHYS 112L College Physics Lab II 1PHYS 235Modern Physics3
PHYS 235L Modern Physics Laboratory 1PHYS 301Mathematical Methods in Physics3
PHYS 303 Electronics I 3PHYS 303LElectronics Laboratory1
PHYS 310 Optics 3PHYS 310LOptics Lab1
PHYS 314 Theoretical Mechanics I 3PHYS 351Electricity and Magnetism I3
PHYS 361 Quantum Mechanics I 3MathematicsMATH 161 Calculus I 4MATH 162Calculus II4
MATH 263 Multivariable Calculus 4MATH 264Ordinary Differential Equations3
Computer ScienceCOMP 141Introduction to Computing Tools and Techniques3
COMP 170 Introduction to Object-Oriented Programming 3COMP 264Introduction to Computer Systems3
COMP 271 Data Structures I 3COMP 272Data Structures II3
Discrete Mathematics ChoiceCOMP 163Discrete Structures3or MATH 201Introduction to Discrete Mathematics & Number
Theory
Computer Science ChoiceCOMP 313Object-Oriented Design3or COMP 363Design and Analysis Computer Algorithms
300-Level Comp Electives or EquivalentSelect two of the following:6
BIOL 388 BioinformaticsBIOL 392MetagenomicsCOMP 300-Level CourseMATH 309Numerical MethodsMATH 328 Algebraic Coding TheoryMATH 331CryptographyPHYS 328 Thermal Physical & Statistical MechanicsPHYS 338Advanced Physics LaboratorySTAT 321Computational Aspects of Modeling and
SimulationTotal Hours75
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
First Year
Fall
PHYS 121 College Physics I with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3PHYS 111LCollege Physics Laboratory I1
MATH 161 Calculus I 4COMP 141Introduction to Computing Tools and
Techniques3UCWR 110Writing Responsibly3 Hours14
Spring
PHYS 122 College Physics II with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3PHYS 112LCollege Physics Lab II1
PHYS 126F Freshman Projects 1MATH 162Calculus II4
COMP 170 Introduction to Object-Oriented
Programming3Core3 Hours15
Second Year
FallPHYS 235Modern Physics3
PHYS 235L Modern Physics Laboratory 1MATH 263Multivariable Calculus4
MATH 264 Ordinary Differential Equations 13COMP 163Discrete Structures3Core3 Hours17
Spring
PHYS 301 Mathematical Methods in Physics 3PHYS 314Theoretical Mechanics I3
COMP 163 Discrete Structures 3COMP 271Data Structures I3Core3 Hours15
Third Year
Fall
PHYS 351 Electricity and Magnetism I 3

--- Page 592 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 623PHYS 303Electronics I 23
PHYS 303L Electronics Laboratory 21COMP 272Data Structures II3
Core 3Core3 Hours16
SpringPHYS 310Optics 33
PHYS 310L Optics Lab 31PHYS 361Quantum Mechanics I3
COMP 264 Introduction to Computer Systems 3Core3Core3 Hours16
Fourth Year
Fall
COMP 363 Design and Analysis Computer Algorithms 3PCSC 300-Level Elective3
Core 3Core3Core3 Hours15
Spring
PCSC 300-Level Elective 3Core3
Core 3Core3General Elective1 Hours13 Total Hours121
1Students can take MATH 264  in the spring semester of their second
year, but it would be best taken before PHYS 301 .
2Students can take PHYS 303 Electronics I  & PHYS 303L Electronics
Laboratory  in the fall semester of their fourth year.
3Students can take PHYS 310 Optics  & PHYS 310L Optics Lab  in the
spring semester of their fourth year.
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.Learning Outcomes
Interdisciplinary ﬁelds involving science and technology continuously
change and present exciting challenges. If you are a student interested in
these ﬁelds, then a degree in Physics with Computer Science may be just
right for you.
By completing the Physics with Computer Science degree, students will:
•Demonstrate foundational knowledge in the physical sciences and
the acquisition of new knowledge via the scientiﬁc method.           
•Use mathematical techniques to model physical systems and extract
both quantitative and qualitative descriptions of their behavior.  
•Acquire speciﬁc knowledge in the computational sciences.           
•Gain an understanding and appreciation of interdisciplinary approach
in the physical and computational sciences.
•Learn effective and ethical methods for collaborating with others on
scientiﬁc and technical projects.
Polish Studies Interdisciplinary
Program
Loyola University Chicago Minor in Polish Studies is an interdisciplinary
program that includes a comprehensive range of courses designed to
provide students with an enriched and valuable learning experience. This
minor appeals to the growing number of Loyola students who come from
Polish and Eastern/Central European backgrounds, and those who are
interested in studying this particular culture. The curriculum consists of
courses in Polish language and literature, with additional course offerings
in related history, political science, women studies, and gender studies, as
well as global and international studies.
Undergraduate Programs
•Polish Studies Minor  (p. 625)
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Polish (POLS) 
POLS 101   Polish I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on introducing the student to the basics of Polish,
through conversation, pronunciation and grammar. Primary emphasis is
on enabling the student to speak and understand basic Polish.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Polish Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to use correctly and understand the basic
grammatical forms of the verbs, nouns and adjectives of Polish as an
inflected language; They will be appropriately prepared to complete the
full view of Polish structures in Polish

--- Page 593 ---
624  Polish Studies Interdisciplinary Program
POLS 102   Polish II   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on introducing the student to the basics of Polish,
through conversation, pronunciation and grammar. Primary emphasis is
on enabling the student to speak and understand basic Polish.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Polish Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to use correctly and understand the basic
grammatical forms of the verbs, nouns and adjectives of Polish as an
inflected language; They will be appropriately prepared to complete the
full view of Polish structures in Polish
POLS 103   Polish III   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  POLS 102   
This course is designed to further develop and improve student's ability
to speak and read Polish, by introducing advanced grammar, vocabulary,
idioms, phraseology and syntax structures.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Polish Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to use correctly and understand various
grammatical forms of verbs, nouns, adjectives, adverbs and numbers;
They will be appropriately prepared to use Polish grammatical and
stylistic structures required in POLS 104
POLS 104   Polish IV   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  POLS 103   
This course focuses on improving the student's ability to communicate in
Polish both oral and written. Primary emphasis is on speaking and basic
writing in Polish using proper grammatical and stylistic structures.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Polish Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to express themselves in spoken and written Polish
with the level of fluency appropriate for POLS 250
POLS 201   Polish Medical Terminology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  POLS 104 or equivalent   
This course is designed to prepare students for medical and healthcare
related professions, future physicians and nurses, healthcare
administrators and health insurance specialists. We will study Polish
vocabulary for anatomy and physiology, and introduced Polish terms
for medical procedures and tests. We will use phraseology common for
taking medical history. Students will practice using medical terminology
in patient interviews, reading articles from healthcare publications as well
as understanding and formulating medical instructions. In this course we
will also talk about cultural issues in practicing medicine, including the
cultural differences between Polish and American approach. There will be
strong emphasis on speaking, listening, and reading Polish.
Outcomes:
Students will expand their Polish vocabulary, including body parts and
functions, diseases and their manifestations; They will practice taking
a medical history in dialogues between medical professionals and their
clients as well as use medical names and descriptionPOLS 202   Polish for Healthcare   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  POLS 104 or equivalent   
This course is designed to prepare students for medical professions,
future physicians, dentists, and nurses. We will practice vocabulary for
anatomy and physiology, Polish terms for medical procedure and test as
well as phraseology used in every day in doctor-patient communication.
This course will cover medical specializations such as: pediatrician,
nutritionist, internist, immunologist, neurologist, psychiatrist and
surgeon. We will also talk about cultural issues in practicing medicine.
There will be strong emphasis on speaking, listening, and reading Polish
and using more advanced aspects of Polish grammar.
Outcomes:
Students will learn medical vocabulary, including body parts and organs,
physiology and functions of various systems; They will practice taking
medical history in dialogues between medical professionals and their
patients, and they will write descriptions of medical conditions
POLS 250   Composition & Conversation I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  POLS 104   
This course focuses on improving and further developing student's ability
to converse and write in literary Polish language. Primary emphasis is
on proper grammatical and stylistic expression in Polish with extended
vocabulary and phraseology.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Polish Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to express themselves in spoken and written Polish
by making oral presentations and writing short compositions; They will be
appropriately prepared for POLS 251
POLS 251   Composition & Conversation II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  POLS 250   
This course focuses on enhancing and polishing student's ability to
converse and write in contemporary Polish language. Primary emphasis
is on standard, literary Polish with its grammatical, orthographical and
stylistic level expected of an educated Polish speaker.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Polish Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to speak fluently, make oral presentations and write
essays in standard literary Polish language with fluency of an educated
Polish speaker
POLS 270   Contemporary Polish Culture in the Original Language   (3
Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  POLS 104 or equivalent   
We will discuss the key elements of Polish culture as it is evolving in the
fast changing social, technological, and economic circumstances after
the political transformation of Central Europe. Students will explore the
cultural traditions and values of the pre-WWII generation and the Soviet
era generation, which led many to emigrate from Poland.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Polish Studies   
Polish Studies (POST) 
POST 199   Topics in Polish Studies: Introductory   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
Introduction to a speciﬁc theme in Polish Studies, e.g. Polish immigration,
emergent Poland after World War II, etc.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Polish Studies   
Outcomes:
To gain a basic knowledge of Poland through its art, history, politics,
religion, philosophy, or cinema

--- Page 594 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 625
POST 299   Topics in Polish Studies: Intermediate Topics   (1-6 Credit
Hours)   
Exploration of important themes in Polish Studies, such as Polish
immigration, emergent Poland after World War II, etc.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Polish Studies   
Outcomes:
To enhance knowledge of Polish Studies through different disciplines: art,
history, politics, religion, philosophy, or cinema
POST 395   Polish Studies Capstone   (3 Credit Hours)   
Capstone course to the POST Minor program. This is a tutorial course
with a service learning component that serves an integrative purpose.
In the tutorial students will focus on a speciﬁc issue or theme  in POST .
The syllabus will reflect the research interests of the faculty member who
administers the course.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Polish Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to integrate their coursework in the POST minor with
their major concentration
POST 399   Topics in Polish Studies: Advanced   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
Intensive study of a speciﬁc theme or themes in the broad ﬁeld of Polish
Studies: language, art, literature & ﬁlm, politics, music, and history.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Polish Studies   
Outcomes:
To provide an in-depth knowledge of Polish Studies
Polish Studies Minor
Loyola University Chicago Minor in Polish Studies is an interdisciplinary
program that includes a comprehensive range of courses designed to
provide students with an enriched and valuable learning experience. This
minor appeals to the growing number of Loyola students who come from
Polish and Eastern/Central European backgrounds, and those who are
interested in studying this particular culture. The curriculum consists of
courses in Polish language and literature, with additional course offerings
in related history, political science, women studies, and gender studies, as
well as global and international studies.
We look forward to seeing you in Polish Classes!
Czekamy na Ciebie na polskich kursach!
Related Programs
Minor
•German Studies Minor  (p. 572)
•Literature in Translation Minor  (p. 581)
Curriculum
Students with a Minor in Polish Studies must complete a total of six
courses (18 credit hours). No more than four courses may be taken in
the same department. Students should focus their studies on areas
that best complement their major: languages and literatures or history
and political science. Only three courses from the minor may be applied
toward another major or minor.
Code Title Hours
Language RequirementChoose two of the following:6
POLS 101 Polish IPOLS 102Polish IIPOLS 103 Polish IIIPOLS 104Polish IVPOLS 201 Polish Medical TerminologyPOLS 202Polish for HealthcarePOLS 250 Composition & Conversation IPOLS 251Composition & Conversation IIPOLS 270 Contemporary Polish Culture in the Original
LanguageElectivesChoose three of the following: 9HIST 316History of PolandHIST 317 Age of Absolutism & the EnlightenmentHIST 329NModern European Nationalism: Myth and RealityHIST 334B The Holocaust: History and MemoryHIST 335The Second World WarHIST 336 Contemporary Europe 1945 to PresentHIST 337Rise & Fall of Soviet UnionHIST 338A History of European CommunismHIST 338BEastern Europe in the 20th CenturyUCLR 100M Interpreting Literature - Modern Langs&LiteraturesLITR 200European MasterpiecesLITR 202 European NovelLITR 203European DramaLITR 204 European FilmLITR 221Polish AuthorsLITR 280 World Masterpieces in TranslationLITR 284International FilmPOST 199 Topics in Polish Studies: IntroductoryPOST 299Topics in Polish Studies: Intermediate TopicsPOST 399 Topics in Polish Studies: AdvancedPLSC 347The European UnionPLSC 348 Soviet & Post-Soviet PoliticsCapstone CoursePOST 395Polish Studies Capstone3Total Hours18
Language Requirement
A minimum of two courses  (six credit hours) must be in the study
of the Polish language. These courses may be at any level and can
include: POLS 101 Polish I  - POLS 102 Polish II  (elementary), POLS 103
Polish III  - POLS 104 Polish IV  (intermediate), POLS 201 Polish Medical
Terminology -POLS 202 Polish for Healthcare  (medical & advanced) or
POLS 250 Composition & Conversation I  - POLS 251 Composition &
Conversation II  (advanced), as well as POLS 270 Contemporary Polish
Culture in the Original Language .  Students must be assessed by a Polish
specialist in the Department of Modern Languages and Literatures in
order to guarantee placement in the appropriate course level.
Capstone Course
Students must complete POST 395 Polish Studies Capstone , during
their junior or senior year.  The course complements the minor program
with an integrated service-learning component. Students focus on a
speciﬁc issue or theme in Polish Studies and complete a research
project that integrates the minor with their major ﬁeld. Additionally,

--- Page 595 ---
626  Political Science
the course contains a service-learning component of the student’s
choosing that takes place in one of institutions or organizations in
Chicago’s Polish American community, including the Polish Museum
and Library, Consulate General of the Republic of Poland, the Kosciuszko
Foundation, Chopin Theatre, Trap Door Theatre, Copernicus Center, Polish
Film Festival, LIRA Ensemble, Paderewski Symphony Orchestra, Polish
American Association, Polish Community-based Schools,  Polish radio
and television, as well as Community Health Clinics serving Polish-
speaking population, and the Polish American Chamber of Commerce.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Second Year
FallLanguage Course3 Hours3
SpringLanguage Course3 Hours3
Third Year
FallElective3 Hours3
SpringElective3 Hours3
Fourth Year
FallElective3 Hours3
SpringPOST 395Polish Studies Capstone3 Hours3 Total Hours18
Political Science
About Us
Loyola University Chicago’s Political Science Department offers dozens
of courses each semester on various aspects of politics, including
the institutions of American government; constitutional law; political
systems in Africa, Asia, Europe and Latin America; foreign policy and
international relations; and political theory, past and present.
The department also sponsors extensive internship experiences, making
use of the extraordinary resources available in the city of Chicago and in
Washington, D.C. Every member of the political science faculty teaches
undergraduate courses and engages in scholarly research.Undergraduate Programs
•Honors in Political Science  (p. 636)
•Law and Politics Minor  (p. 637)
•Political Science (BA)  (p. 638)
•Political Science (BA/MA)  (p. 1313 )
•Political Science Minor  (p. 640)
•International Affairs Accelerated Bachelor's Master's Programs
(p. 642)
•Advertising & Public Relations/International Affairs (BA/MA)
(p. 972)
•Advertising Creative/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 987)
•Advocacy and Social Change/International Affairs (BA/MA)
(p. 998)
•Communication Studies/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1062 )
•Criminal Justice and Criminology/International Affairs (BS/MA)
(p. 1075 )
•Elementary Education/International Affairs (BSEd/MA)  (p. 1089 )
•Film and Digital Media: Film and Media Production Track/
International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1202 )
•Film and Digital Media: International Programming Track/
International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1214 )
•Global Studies/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1219 )
•History/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1245 )
•Multimedia Journalism/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1298 )
•Philosophy/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1306 )
•Political Science/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1318 )
•Psychology/International Affairs (BS/MA)  (p. 1327 )
•Secondary Education/International Affairs (BSEd/MA)  (p. 1335 )
•Social Work/International Affairs (BSW/MA)  (p. 1355 )
•Sociology/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1364 )
•Special Education/International Affairs (BSEd/MA)  (p. 1372 )
•Theology/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1388 )
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Political Science (PLSC)
PLSC 100   Political Theory   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHIL 130 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
An introduction to political theory, covering the principal ideas,
controversies and institutions of political society.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Philosophical Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  ACPOL 200 / PLSC 100   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of major
approaches to the normative study of politics; to identify the
assumptions underlying philosophical arguments; and to critically assess
different theories of political justice

--- Page 596 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 627
PLSC 101   American Politics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100, PLSC 102, PSYC 100, SOCL 101, WSGS 101, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
American national government and politics, including institutions, group
and electoral processes, and public policy.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  ACPOL 101 / PLSC 101   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the American
political system, the patterns of political participation and behavior of
diverse individuals and groups in American society, and evaluate the roles
and processes of U.S. political institutions
PLSC 102   International Relations in an Age of Globalization   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Competing perspectives on international politics and global issues
such as North-South relations, human rights, war and peace, population
growth, and environmentalism.
Knowledge Area:  Foundational Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Global
Studies, Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies   
Course equivalencies:  PLSC/PAX/ACPOL102/AFR110/INTS2   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the main
approaches to the study of international politics and to analyze and
assess such major substantive issues as interstate war, terrorism, arms
control, international political economy and sustainable development
PLSC 103   Comparative Politics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100, PLSC 102, PSYC 100, SOCL 101, WSGS 101, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
A cross-national comparison of political institutions and political
behavior.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will learn why political systems differ and how different political
systems function and change
PLSC 123   Speak Up Democracy   (0-3 Credit Hours)   
"Speak Up Democracy" is a course on perennial questions about the
workings of democracies. Participating students will investigate the
connection between speech and political power, ruminating on whose
voices are heard (and silenced) in a democracy. This summer program is
animated by a central question: how should we speak to one another in a
democracy? The course is open to high school students participating in
the summer program.
PLSC 195   Law and Civil Rights   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course focuses on the political processes surrounding laws and civil
rights.PLSC 202   Mock Trial   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students will study the trial as a process for ﬁnding truth and
administering justice by learning the dynamics of the trial, by developing
trial strategy, by learning how to conduct and respond to direct and cross
examination and by delivering effective opening and closing arguments.
Mock trial is an engaged learning course. Prior Permission is required.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Mock trials are an activity that promotes critical thinking and reasoning;
They call upon students to employ their problem-solving and public-
speaking skills, and students gain knowledge of legal practices and
procedures
PLSC 203   Moot Court   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students will study the appeal as a process for ﬁnding truth and
administering justice by learning the dynamics of appellate advocacy,
by developing oral argument strategies, by learning how to respond to
questions posed by judges in competition, and by delivering effective
summations and rebuttal arguments. Moot court is an engaged learning
course.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Moot court competitions are an activity that promotes critical thinking
and reasoning; They will enhance their ability-to-think- on-their-feet skills,
their legal research skills, and their public-speaking skills; Students gain
knowledge of legal argumentation and constitutional law
PLSC 204   Conflict Management   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course considers a variety of different approaches to international
conflict management: direct bargaining, mediation, military intervention,
economic sanctions, arbitration, adjudication, and peacekeeping. In
addition to learning about the differences among these various conflict
resolution techniques.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Outcomes:
This course will treat state conflict as a natural phenomenon that must
be understood before it can be mitigated; Doing so requires scientiﬁc
investigation
PLSC 208   Representation in the United States   (3 Credit Hours)   
Considers what "political representation" means and how scholars study
how well representation works in the contemporary United States.
Outcomes:
Understanding of concept of political representation and tools scholars
use to study representation
PLSC 213   International Human Rights   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the theoretical foundations of such international
human rights as well as their practical implications. It discusses the
roles of states, intergovernmental organizations, and nongovernmental
organizations in shaping human rights norms and practices. They will
also understand practical causes and consequences of human rights
policies.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to identify assumptions of arguments and critically
assess different theories of international human rights

--- Page 597 ---
628  Political Science
PLSC 215   Politics of Marginalized Groups   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the role that race, ethnicity, and marginalized
status plays in American politics and public policy. It will provide a
general overview of several groups, including Blacks, Latinxs, Asian and
Muslim Americans, Women, LGBTQ, immigrants and refugees, indigenous
peoples and other groups.
Outcomes:
Students will acquire an understanding of the historical exclusion of
various groups from the political system and the resulting political
participation and behavior patterns of minoritized groups in American
society
PLSC 216   Political Numbers   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will train participants to be critical consumers of political
arguments that cite quantitative evidence. The course will take a hands-
on approach where students learn how to conduct, interpret, and critique
quantitative analysis using common statistical software packages.
Knowledge Area:  Quantitative Knowledge   
Outcomes:
Students will learn to critically engage with the numbers-based claims
they encounter in the political arena and beyond; They will also learn how
to conduct and present quantitative analysis
PLSC 218   African-American Politics   (3 Credit Hours)   
The political goals, behavior, voting patterns, group structures, values, and
attitudes of various segments of the African-American population, and
how these affect the political system.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Human
Services, Race and Ethnicity   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC218/BWS 218   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the patterns of
political participation and behavior of African-American individuals and
groups in American society
PLSC 232   Politics of the United Kingdom   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course offers an introduction to politics in the United Kingdom
(ofﬁcially known as the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, and unofﬁcially referred to as Britain).
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the st ructure
and operation of the United Kingdom's domestic political system, as well
as its relations with the rest of the world, especially the European Union
PLSC 236   Political Communication   (3 Credit Hours)   
The purpose of this course is to explore and examine how elected
ofﬁcials and institutions communicate to the public - and the role
journalists and PR professionals play in the process--through readings,
seminar, and practicum. The class will challenge students to grapple
with questions like - What is the meaning of the "truth" in today's media
environment?
Outcomes:
Students will understand how and why journalists cover what they cover,
and the roles PR professionals/spin doctors attempt to shape the media
narrativePLSC 238   Political Advocacy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Policy-making and implementation in the United States is a complicated
process. In any given year laws are passed by elected ofﬁcials, decisions
that guide our implementation of the law are made by government
agencies, and rulings handed down by the courts shape our interpretation
of those laws.
Outcomes:
Students will understand their place in the policy-making ecosystem, and
the efﬁcacy of those efforts
PLSC 251   Women in American Politics   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on Women and Politics in the United States. It looks
at women's movements both historical and current, how women and men
in the United States act differently in politics in terms of voting behavior,
as political candidates, and as elected leaders. Students will gain a better
understanding of the U.S. political system and how and when wom en are
treated equally and unequally when compared with men.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
PLSC 252   Capitalism and Its Discontents   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course analyzes the intersection of capitalist economics and politics
from a critical perspective. Capitalism and Marxism will be reviewed,
followed by a critical examination of how capitalism has played out in
economic/political practice in the world today. Includes discussions of
many economic topics recently in the news, and the potential for change
in a variety of directions. Students will learn to critically analyze the
ways in which modern economics leads to less than optimal solutions,
including economic inequality. They will also learn to identify other
options that may lead to greater equality and economic success.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
PLSC 300   Contemporary Political Issues   (3 Credit Hours)   
Variable titles. Investigation of selected topics or methods in politics.
This course may apply to any of the four areas of the department, and
may be repeated depending on subject matter.
Outcomes:
Students will gain an in-depth knowledge of a unique topic in
contemporary politics
PLSC 300A   Contemporary Political Issues: American Politics   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Investigation of selected topics or methods in American Politics. This
course may be repeated depending on subject matter.
PLSC 300B   Contemporary Political Issues: Political Theory   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Investigation of selected topics or methods in Political Theory. This
course may be repeated depending on subject matter.
PLSC 300C   Contemporary Political Issues: Comparative Politics   (3
Credit Hours)   
Investigation of selected topics or methods in Comparative Politics. This
course may be repeated depending on subject matter.
PLSC 300D   Contemporary Political issues in International Relations   (3
Credit Hours)   
Investigation of selected topics or methods in International Relations.
This course may be repeated depending on subject matter.

--- Page 598 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 629
PLSC 301   Political Justice   (3 Credit Hours)   
A study of alternative conceptions of political justice and the attempts to
institutionalize them in various political systems.
Outcomes:
Students will be required to demonstrate a mastery of competing theories
about how various goods should be distributed fairly, and apply the just-
war doctrine to various real-world cases; This course will help students
to analyze and appraise social practices and policies that claim to be
consistent with principles of justice
PLSC 302   American Political Thought   (3 Credit Hours)   
Major political themes from the founding era to the present.
Outcomes:
Students will learn to interpret and evaluate the assumptions and
principles guiding the writings of major American political theorists, and
to reflect on their signiﬁcance in the evolution of American politics and
society
PLSC 303   Conservatism   (3 Credit Hours)   
A survey of modern conservative thought. Attention will be devoted to the
theoretical and political cleavages within the Right.
Outcomes:
Students will learn to interpret and evaluate the assumptions and
principles guiding the writings of influential conservative political
theorists and their critics, and to reflect on the signiﬁcance of
conservative political theory in promoting a more just society
PLSC 304   Ancient Political Thought   (3 Credit Hours)   
(CLST 305) A study of major political theorists from Plato to the fall of the
Roman republic.
Outcomes:
Students will learn to interpret and evaluate the assumptions and
principles guiding the writings of major Ancient Greek and early Roman
political theorists
PLSC 306   Modern Political Thought   (3 Credit Hours)   
A study of major political theorists from Machiavelli to the French
Revolution.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will learn to interpret and evaluate the assumptions and
principles guiding the writings of the major political theorist s from
Machiavelli to Rousseau
PLSC 307   Democratic Theory   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines normative arguments for and against popular rule.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to explain and assess critically arguments for and
against democratic government
PLSC 308   Contemporary Political Thought   (3 Credit Hours)   
A study of major political theorists from the nineteenth century to the
present.
Interdisciplinary Option:  German Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will learn to interpret and evaluate the assumptions and guiding
principles of the writings of major political theorists from the nineteenth
century to the presentPLSC 309   Socialism   (3 Credit Hours)   
A survey of Marxist and post-Marxist socialist thought.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Polish Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will learn to interpret and evaluate the assumptions and
principles guiding the writings of major socialist political theorists and
their critics, and to reflect on the signiﬁcance of socialist political theory
in promoting a more just society
PLSC 310B   Catholic Political Thought   (3 Credit Hours)   
A survey of classic and contemporary political thinkers in the Roman
Catholic tradition. The problems examined include religious pluralism,
moral decay, natural law, distributive justice, political obligation, war, and
peace.
PLSC 311   Social Science Research Practicum: Cook County Community
Survey   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PLSC 216 or equivalent   
Familiarity with R, Stata, SAS, or SPSS necessary. Students will analyze
this year's iteration of the annual Cook County Community Survey. They
will draw on the data to prepare written, public-facing reports, public
presentations, and scholarly research.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  PLSC 311/SOCL 311   
Outcomes:
Describe the strengths and limitations of modern polling techniques; Use
statistical software to analyze survey data; Communicate ﬁndings from
surveys to a broad audience orally and in written form
PLSC 312   Feminist Theory   (3 Credit Hours)   
(WOST 318) A survey of classical and contemporary feminist political
theory.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC312/WOST318/WSGS318   
Outcomes:
Students will learn to interpret and evaluate the assumptions and
principles guiding the writings of influential feminist political theorists
and their critics, and to reflect on the signiﬁcance of feminist political
theory in promoting a more just society
PLSC 313   Resistance and Obligation   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines normative arguments about the source of political
obligation and the right to resist government through various means, both
violent and nonviolent.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to explain and assess critically various arguments
about the duty to obey and the right to disobey government
PLSC 314   Liberalism   (3 Credit Hours)   
A survey of classical and contemporary political theorists in the liberal
tradition.
Outcomes:
Students will learn to interpret and evaluate the assumptions and
principles guiding the writings of major liberal political theorists and
their critics, and to reflect on the signiﬁcance of liberal political theory in
promoting a more just society

--- Page 599 ---
630  Political Science
PLSC 316   Politics of Genocide   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course analyzes the politics surrounding genocide, war crimes and
crimes against humanity in contemporary times. The primary focus
is on occurrences since the end of the Cold War, including the former
Yugoslavia, Rwanda, Sudan and the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Global
Studies, Race and Ethnicity   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of genocide
and other massive human rights violations, along with the role of the
international community in preventing future atrocities
PLSC 317   Politics of International Health   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course discusses political issues in the ﬁeld of international health,
including comparing health care systems in the industrialized world,
and treatment of diseases in the developing world, particularly Africa
(HIV/AIDs, TB, Malaria, etc). Students will be able to demonstrate an
understanding of international health and comparative health systems.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Global
Studies   
PLSC 318   Politics & the Economy   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines how and why the U.S. government influences
the economy. The government is the single most important actor in
the economy, both as a consumer and as an entity seeking to manage
important aspects of the economy.
Outcomes:
At the end of the course, students should be able to demonstrate
knowledge about the key public and private institutions involved in
economic policy and politics; Provide explanations of the development
of both historical and contemporary economic policies; Explain the
underlying bases of contemporary economic issues and competing
views on appropriate policy actions to address them; Be able to access
available public sources to conduct research on economic problems and
policies
PLSC 319   Women, Law & Public Policy   (3 Credit Hours)   
The legal arrangements and public policies that structure the
relationships of women and men in American society.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services, Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC319/WOST319/WSGS319   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze and appraise the impact of judicial
decisions and public policies on women in the United States
PLSC 320   Constitutional Law-Due Process   (3 Credit Hours)   
The Supreme Court's role in deﬁning substantive and procedural due
process issues such as criminal procedure, individual autonomy, and
economic regulation.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Sociolegal Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the meaning
and application of due process in American law and its impact in
safeguarding individual freedoms and civil rights
PLSC 321   Constitutional Law-Powers of Government   (3 Credit Hours)   
The Supreme Court's role in allocating power among the three
branches of the national government and between the state and federal
governments.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Sociolegal Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of altern ative
judicial approaches to the separation of governmental powersPLSC 322   Constitutional Law-Rights and Liberties   (3 Credit Hours)   
The Supreme Court's role in deﬁning constitutional guarantees of equal
protection and individual freedom.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Sociolegal Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the meaning,
protection and boundaries of civil rights and individual liberties in
American law
PLSC 323   Children, Law & Public Policy   (3 Credit Hours)   
The constitutional rights of children in the home, the classroom, and
the courtroom, and such policy areas as public welfare assistance, child
abuse and neglect, and child support enforcement.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze and assess the impact of judicial
decisions and public policies on children and families in the United States
PLSC 324   Civil-Military Relations   (3 Credit Hours)   
An exploration of the nature of military professionalism and the
relationship between the military and the civil society whose task it is to
defend.
Outcomes:
Students will understand the role of the military in a free society, and
the complex interactions between democratic norms and military
organization
PLSC 325   American Foreign Policy   (3 Credit Hours)   
(INTS 375) Origins and development of American foreign policies; the
method of their formulation and conduct.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC325/INTS375   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the
formulation, adoption and implementation of American foreign policy and
its impact on domestic and international affairs
PLSC 326   American National Security   (3 Credit Hours)   
American national security policy, including the role of major political
actors, the defense budgetary process, and the capability and
effectiveness of the military.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC326/PAX 327   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze and assess the formation, adoption and
implementation of national security policies in the United States and their
impact on domestic and international affairs
PLSC 327   Political Psychology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Political attitudes from a social psychological perspective with emphasis
on cognitive development models.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand the psychological sources of political
decision making
PLSC 328   Political Behavior   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course covers a range of topics pertaining to political behavior in
the United States. Topics will include research on the factors that shape
public attitudes about political matters, and work that examines who
participates in politics and why.

--- Page 600 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 631
PLSC 329   Interest Group Politics   (3 Credit Hours)   
A study of the role of interest groups in American politics and policy.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze and assess the patterns of political
participation and behavior of diverse interest groups and their impact on
the American political system
PLSC 330   Global Justice   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores debates about global justice such as immigration,
climate change, free trade, and humanitarian interventions. Rooted
in political theory, the course also includes readings from sociology,
philosophy, and economics.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Peace Studies, Global Studies,
Peace Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC330/PAX 330   
Outcomes:
Students will learn to critically assess different theories of political
justice and learn how to evaluate the moral and political justiﬁcations of
international practices and policies
PLSC 331   Islamic Political Thought   (3 Credit Hours)   
An introduction to Islamic political thought, covering main ideas,
questions, debates of the Islamic religio-political society, from the Qur'an
to the present. Among the authors studied include al-Farabi, al-Mawardi,
Ibn Khaldun, Islamic feminists, Islamic modernists, and Islamists.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Islamic World Studies, Global
Studies, Islamic World Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to identify assumptions of arguments, critically
assess different theories, and, having been familiarized with the inherent
entanglement of religion and politics, will be able to identify what is
speciﬁc to Islamic governance and what may be universalized
PLSC 332   Politics of American Bureaucracies   (3 Credit Hours)   
The political and social aspects of American bureaucracies at the local,
state and national levels with emphasis on the roles of administrators
and administrative institutions in the political system and policy process.
Outcomes:
Students will be able understand the role of the federal bureaucracy in
the formulation, adoption and implementation of public policies, and their
impact on the everyday lives of citizens
PLSC 333   Crossing Borders: The Politics of Immigration   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course explores immigration policies and practices around
the world. The primary goal is to gain a better understanding of the
choices both countries and would-be immigrants face, as well as the
consequences of the laws and policies enacted to regulate the movement
of people across borders.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Human Services, Global Studies,
Human Services   
Outcomes:
Understand the range of motivations that cause people to migrate,
the laws and policies to regulate this movement, the consequences of
migration, and contribute to societal debates about migration
PLSC 334   Urban Policies and Problems   (3 Credit Hours)   
An analysis of selected problems confronting governments in urban
America as well as the range of public policies that address urban
problems. (May be repeated with different issues.)
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services, Race and Ethnicity, Urban
Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will obtain in-depth knowledge of a unique topic in th e area of
urban policy-makingPLSC 335   Urban Semester Seminar   (3 Credit Hours)   
See course description for SOCL 335.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Urban Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  X-SOCL335/PLSC335   
Outcomes:
See outcome for SOCL 335
PLSC 336   Politics in Contemporary China   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course primarily focuses on domestic politics in post-1978 China.
It introduces and examines China's key political institutions and players,
various forms of political participation by political elites and ordinary
citizens, and issues on governance and political reforms.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global & International Studies,
Global Studies, Peace Studies, Asian Studies, Global & International
Studies, Global Studies, Peace Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-COMM304/PLSC/PAX336/INTS310   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to make informed use of China as a case in more
general arguments and have a solid footing from which to pursue more
in-depth study of particular topics in China
PLSC 337   Terrorism   (3 Credit Hours)   
An analysis of different types of terrorist insurgencies across the globe
and of the efforts by governments to combat terrorism
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC337/INTS337/CJC337   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to explain what motives the turn to terror as a
method of struggle and to assess the morality and effectiveness of the
counterterrorism tactics adopted by various governments
PLSC 339   Political Ideologies   (3 Credit Hours)   
(INTS 369) A comparative analysis of important modern political
ideologies and the functions they serve in the political system.
Attention will be devoted to the ideologies of non-Western regimes and
movements.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC339/INTS339   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze and assess the role and impact of
political ideologies in the foundation, development, and justiﬁcation of
various political regimes
PLSC 340   International Relations of Africa   (3 Credit Hours)   
(BWS 340) (INTS 340) An introduction to the international relations of the
countries that comprise the African continent. The primary focus is the
evolution of African international relations during the post-colonial period
(c. 1960-present).
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Global
Studies, Islamic World Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC340/BWS 340/INTS340   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the na ture
and evolution of African international relations with the major northern
industrialized democracies and various regions of the developing world

--- Page 601 ---
632  Political Science
PLSC 342   African Politics   (3 Credit Hours)   
(BWS 342) (INTS 342) Forces shaping political societies south of the
Sahara: the heritage of colonialism, the sociology of modernization, race
related stresses, economic factors, and political movements.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Global
Studies, Islamic World Studies   
Course equivalencies:  PLSC342/BWS 342/INTS342/IWS342   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the
formation and structure of African political systems, the patterns of
political participation and behavior of diverse individuals, groups, and
governments in African societies, and evaluate the roles and processes of
African political institutions
PLSC 343   Latin American Politics   (3 Credit Hours)   
(INTS 343) (LASP 343) Historical, cultural, economic and political forces
in the governments of Latin America and the Caribbean.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Latin American Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC343/INTS343/LASP343   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the formation
and structure of Latin American and Caribbean political systems, the
patterns of political participation and behavior of diverse individuals,
groups, and governments in Latin American and Caribbean societies,
and evaluate the roles and processes of Latin American and Caribbean
political institutions
PLSC 344   Contemporary Issues in Latin America   (3 Credit Hours)   
(INTS 344) (LASP 344) A study of political forces and processes relating
to population movement, land use, and urbanization in Latin America and
the Caribbean.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Latin American Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC344/INTS344/LASP344   
Outcomes:
Students will obtain in-depth knowledge of a unique topic in Latin
American and Caribbean politics
PLSC 345   South & Southeast Asian Politics   (3 Credit Hours)   
(ASIA 343) (INTS 345) Political forces and developments of the Asian
cultures.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC345/ASIA343/INTS345   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the formation
and structure of South and Southeast Asian political systems, the
patterns of political participation and behavior of diverse individuals and
groups in South and Southeast Asian societies, and evaluate the roles
and processes of South and Southeast Asian political institutions
PLSC 346   East Asian Politics   (3 Credit Hours)   
(ASIA 342) (INTS 346) The social forces and structure of politics and
government of East Asia.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC346/ASIA342/INTS346   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the formation
and structure of East Asian political systems, the patterns of political
participation and behavior of diverse individuals and groups in East Asian
societies, and evaluate the roles and processes of East Asian political
institutionsPLSC 347   The European Union   (3 Credit Hours)   
(INTS 381) An introduction to the European Union, a regional organization
linking the nations of Europe.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies, Polish Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC347/INTS381   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the formation
and structure of the European Union, the patterns of political participation
and behavior of diverse individuals, groups, and governments in the
European Union, and evaluate the roles and processes of the European
Union's political institutions
PLSC 348   Soviet & Post-Soviet Politics   (3 Credit Hours)   
(INTS 382) An examination of the institutions, processes, and policies of
the former Soviet Union and its successor states.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies, Polish Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC348/INTS382   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the formation
and structure of the former Soviet Union, the patterns of political
participation and behavior of diverse individuals and groups in the former
Soviet Union, and evaluate the roles and processes of the former Soviet
Union's political institutions; Students will also be able to understand the
collapse of the former Soviet Union and the formation and structure of its
successor states
PLSC 349   Eastern European Politics   (3 Credit Hours)   
(INTS 382) An examination of the institutions, processes, and policies of
the former Soviet Union and its successor states.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies, Polish Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC349/INTS349   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the formation
and structure of the former Soviet Union, the patterns of political
participation and behavior of diverse individuals and groups in the former
Soviet Union, and evaluate the roles and processes of the former Soviet
Union's political institutions; Students will also be able to understand the
collapse of the former Soviet Union and the formation and structure of its
successor states
PLSC 350   Politics of International Economic Relations   (3 Credit Hours)   
(INTS 350) An examination of international political-economic relations
with an emphasis on the post-World War II period.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC350/INTS350   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the
interrelationship between the international economic and political
systems
PLSC 351   Latin American International System   (3 Credit Hours)   
(INTS 395) (LASP 341) An introduction to the international relations of the
countries of Latin America and the Caribbean. The primary focus is the
evolution of Latin American and Caribbean international relations during
the Cold War period Students will gain an in-depth knowledge of how U.S.
influence, revolutionary insurgencies, trade, the illicit narcotics trafﬁc,
human rights concerns, and international organizations have positively
and negatively affected the region.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Latin American Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC351/INTS395/LASP341   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the
interrelationship between the international system and the foreign
policies of the countries of Latin America and the Caribbean

--- Page 602 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 633
PLSC 352   Canadian Politics   (3 Credit Hours)   
(INTS 320) The Canadian system of government, focusing on the
Parliament, the Prime Minister and permanent government, the judiciary,
political actors such as organized interests, political parties, mass media,
and public opinion.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC352/INTS320   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the Canadian
political system, the patterns of political participation and behavior of
diverse individuals and groups in Canadian society, and evaluate the roles
and processes of Canadian political institutions
PLSC 353   International Law   (3 Credit Hours)   
(INTS 353) (PAX 353) Introduction to legal principles and procedures of
recognized international law.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Peace, Justice, and Conflict
Studies, Sociolegal Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC353/INTS353/PAX 353   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the role
and impact of law and legal principles and institutions in international
relations
PLSC 354   Global Environmental Politics   (3 Credit Hours)   
(ESP 354) (INTS 354) (PAX 354) Examines the linkages between the
world's natural environment and the global political system.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Peace, Justice, and Conflict
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC/ESP/INTS/PAX 354   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the role of
various private, national and international actors in the formulation,
adoption and implementation of environmental public policies
PLSC 355C   Women and Politics: A Cross-National Perspective   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course offers a cross-national perspective of women's status in
the political world, as voters, activists, and ofﬁceholders. It examines
women's participation in the developed and developing world. Students
will acquire knowledge of the role of women as political actors in a
multitude of nations in the world.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  PLSC355C/WSGS355C/INTS361C   
PLSC 356   Intervent in World Politics   (3 Credit Hours)   
(INTS 356) (PAX 356) Examines the purposeful use of political, economic,
and military instruments by one country to influence the domestic or the
foreign policies of another country.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Peace, Justice, and Conflict
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC356/INTS356/PAX 356   
Outcomes:
Students will obtain an in-depth knowledge of the historical evolution,
potential constraints, and case studies of U.S. intervention in the post
World-War II eraPLSC 357   Hollywood and Law   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course analyzes ﬁlms that focus on justice, the law, and the legal
system, to see what they tell us about political and legal culture, and what
messages (if any) they have for contemporary politics.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global & International Studies, Global &
International Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC357/INTS357   
Outcomes:
Student will analyze how Hollywood portrays law, policy, and major trials
and court decisions as well as be able to locate and ask questions about
how the depiction of law, politics, and civic responsibility have changed
across time
PLSC 358   War, Peace and Politics   (3 Credit Hours)   
(PAX 358) The historical evolution of war, the nature of wars in the 20th
century and into the 21st century, the nature of threats, sources of
conflict, and procedures for peaceful resolution of disputes.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC358/INTS358/PAX 358   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the principal
causes of wars, the means and ends of warfare, and the process and
prospects of reestablishing peace
PLSC 358D   The Scientiﬁc Study of War   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides an introduction to & overview of the concepts
& approaches related to the causes of war, conflict, and peace in
the international system. The main topics of the course are: (1) an
introduction to understanding war as a social science topic, (2) the
origins of the demands and disputes that can lead to war, (3) the
escalation of these, (4) the expansion of war, (5) the consequences of
war, and (6) the possibility of peace.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
PLSC 359   Revolutions   (3 Credit Hours)   
(INTS 368) A critical examination of different empirical theories of
revolution. Case studies will be drawn from Europe, Asia, Africa, and the
Americas.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC359/INTS384   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze and assess the causes, development, and
consequences of modern revolutionary movements and revolutions
PLSC 360   Western European Politics   (3 Credit Hours)   
(INTS 360) Comparative study of the structures, processes, and functions
of the parties and governments of the western powers with emphasis on
the United Kingdom, France and the German Federal Republic.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  PLSC360/INTS360   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the formation
and structure of West European political systems, the patterns of political
participation and behavior of diverse individuals and groups in West
European societies, and evaluate the roles and processes of West
European political institutions

--- Page 603 ---
634  Political Science
PLSC 362   Politics Developing Societies   (3 Credit Hours)   
(INTS 362) Social, economic, and ideological factors influencing political
developments in emerging nations.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC362/INTS362   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the foundation
and structure of emerging nations, the patterns of political participation
and behavior of diverse individuals, groups, and governments in
developing societies, and evaluate the roles and processes of political
institutions in developing societies
PLSC 363   International Politics   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is intended to serve as an advanced exploration of the ﬁeld of
international politics. Students will explore the most recent developments
in international relations theory and select political developments within
the international system, including the evolution of these developments
in various regions of the world.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will hone their ability to assess/critique cutting edge theories
and developments within the ﬁeld of international politics
PLSC 364   UN & International Organization   (3 Credit Hours)   
(INTS 364) (PAX 364) An examination of the purposes, organization,
background, and operations of existing international organizations.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Peace, Justice, and Conflict
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC364/INTS364/PAX 364   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the formation
and structure of various International Organizations, especially the
United Nations, the patterns of political participation and behavior of
individuals, private and public groups, and governments in International
Organizations, and evaluate the roles and processes of International
Organizations
PLSC 365   Italian Politics & Government   (3 Credit Hours)   
(INTS 365) (ROST 365) An examination of the institutions, processes, and
practices of Italian political life. Major concern is with post-1945 Italian
politics.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies, Global Studies, Italian Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC365/INTS365/ROST365   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the formation
and structure of Italy's contemporary political system, the patterns of
political participation and behavior of diverse individuals and groups in
Italian society, and evaluate the roles and processes of Italian political
institutions
PLSC 366   Dictatorship   (3 Credit Hours)   
This comparative politics course examines the origins, dynamics, and
contradictions of various nondemocratic forms of government, including
military and party dictatorships.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC366/INTS366   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to explain why authoritarian systems rise and fall
and how politics in these systems compares to the political process in
democratic statesPLSC 367   Model United Nations   (3 Credit Hours)   
Introduction to the operations and practices of United Nations, including
training for student participation in the Model U.N. program. Students
taking PLSC 367 Model UN class and act as leaders of the team that
represents Loyola at the New York conference. Prior permission required
to enroll.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Global Studies, Peace Studies,
Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies, Global Studies, Global Studies,
Peace Studies, Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC367/INTS367/PAX 367   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the formation and
structure of the United Nations; Understanding in enhanced by the
practical experience gained by participating in Loyola's Model UN
program
PLSC 368   Politics of the Middle East   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will draw upon the theoretical insights of comparative
politics to examine politics in the Middle East and North Africa. The
seminar focuses on issues that are important for understanding
the contemporary politics of the region, from the persistence of
authoritarianism, petropolitics, political Islam, Arab-Israeli conflict,
and the rise of ISIS to ethnic divisions, gender relations, and social
movements.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Arabic Language and Culture, Global Studies,
Islamic World Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC368/INTS391/IWS368   
PLSC 369   Politics of Energy   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course will discuss how the challenges of climate change, e nergy
security, and poverty alleviation are being tackled by politicians and
the public. It will also assess the degree to which changes in energy
resources bring changes in economic, political, and social power.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global & International Studies, Global Studies,
Islamic World Studies, Peace Studies, Global & International Studies,
Global Studies, Islamic World Studies, Peace Studies   
Course equivalencies:  PLSC369/INTS386/PAX386/IWS369   
Outcomes:
Students will gain a ﬁrm understanding of the various global and regional
trends that are shaping 21st Century foreign policy behavior generally,
and energy diplomacy speciﬁcally
PLSC 370   Fieldwork in Political Science-Internship   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
Practical experience in political and governmental agencies and
organizations in Chicago and Washington, D.C.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students learn about different forms of public service and the ethical
responsibilities of civic engagement; Working in a professional ofﬁce for
ﬁfteen weeks allows students to experience the world of public service
ﬁrst-hand; Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of
models of leadership and public service by working with supervisors who
are normally leaders in their ﬁelds

--- Page 604 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 635
PLSC 371   Roman Law   (3 Credit Hours)   
(CLST 362) An introduction to the general principles and basic concepts
of Roman civil law with emphasis upon the Late Republican-Early
Imperial period.
Interdisciplinary Option:  European Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-CLST362/PLSC371/ROST362   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the
assumptions and principles guiding the formulation and implementation
of Roman civil law
PLSC 372   Crime, Race & Violence   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course discusses the political aspects that affect crime and violence
in the United states, with a special focus on questions of race.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Human
Services, Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies, Psychology of Crime and
Justice, Sociolegal Studies, Urban Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-CJC/BWS/AFR/PLSC372/PAX373   
PLSC 373   Politics and Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
Literature as a medium of political analysis and political criticism. The
literary tradition examined may vary, and the course may be repeated for
credit, depending on the subject matter.
Outcomes:
Students will learn to interpret and evaluate the political assumptions and
principles underlying the writings of major literary ﬁgures, and to reflect
on the role and signiﬁcance of literature in promoting a more just society
PLSC 374   Democracy   (3 Credit Hours)   
A critical examination of the theory and practice of democratic
government. The subﬁeld to which this course belongs varies depending
on its content.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze and assess the theoretical arguments
for and against democracy, and to demonstrate an understanding of the
various institutional arrangements of democratic government
PLSC 376   Political Behavior and Public Opinion   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will cover a range of topics pertaining to public opinion and
political behavior in the United States. Topics will include how public
opinion is measured, research on the factors that shape public attitudes
about political matters, and work that examines who participates in
politics and why.
Outcomes:
Students will learn about substantive scholarly ﬁndings on these topics,
as well as the methodologies researchers use to answer questions about
public opinion and political participation
PLSC 377   American Public Policies   (3 Credit Hours)   
Public policy-making at the national and state government levels;
includes social, economic, ﬁscal, judicial, and moral policies.
Course equivalencies:  PLSC377 / PLSC205   
Outcomes:
Students will obtain in-depth knowledge of a unique topic in th e area of
American public policy adoption and implementationPLSC 378   Intro to Political Economy   (3 Credit Hours)   
The relationships between political and economic systems with an
emphasis on revenues and expenditures, and the consequences of ﬁscal
and monetary policies on economic activity.
Course equivalencies:  PLSC378 / PLSC207   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze the role of the economy and economic
actors in the adoption of public policies, especially in the formulation and
implementation of the budget, and their impact on the economic lives of
citizens
PLSC 379   The Legislative Process   (3 Credit Hours)   
Legislative campaigns and elections, the formal procedures of law
making, the influence of political parties and interest groups, and the
interaction with the president, the judiciary, and the bureaucracy.
Course equivalencies:  PLSC379 / PLSC210   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze and assess the role and processes of the
US Congress in the deliberation and formulation of domestic policies and
their impact on the everyday lives of citizens
PLSC 380   Public Policy Analysis   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course offers a broad approach to the study of public policy.
PLSC 381   The American Presidency   (3 Credit Hours)   
The powers, roles, and responsibilities of the presidential ofﬁce with
special attention to political leadership, the bureaucracy, and political
parties.
Course equivalencies:  PLSC381 / PLSC211   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze and assess the role and impact of the
U.S. presidency on domestic policy and foreign affairs
PLSC 384   The Judicial Process   (3 Credit Hours)   
The judicial process in the American court system from the Supreme
Court to local trial courts, civil and criminal procedure, appellate court
decision-making, and the impact of judicial policies on American politics
and society.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Sociolegal Studies   
Course equivalencies:  PLSC384 / PLSC212   
Outcomes:
Students will be able analyze and assess the role and impact of the U.S.
court system on the protection of individual freedoms and civil rights
PLSC 385   Introduction to Law   (3 Credit Hours)   
The nature of law in society, including the constitutional origins and
institutional structure of legal systems, the practices of the legal
profession, and the substance of selected areas of case law.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Sociolegal Studies   
Course equivalencies:  CRMJ375/PLSC385/PLSC214   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand the role of law and the legal system in
American politics and its impact on the everyday lives of citizens
PLSC 386   Campaigns and Elections   (3 Credit Hours)   
The organization, functions, and behavior of political parties and
elections in the United States.
Course equivalencies:  PLSC386 / PLSC217   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze and evaluate the role and impact of
political parties and elections on the American political system

--- Page 605 ---
636  Honors in Political Science
PLSC 387   Politics and the Press   (3 Credit Hours)   
A study of the dynamics between politics and the press, including its
impact on campaigns, elections, and public policy.
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC387/CMUN340   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze and assess the role and impact of the
press on the American politics
PLSC 388   The Morality and Legality of War   (3 Credit Hours)   
Competing perspectives on the moral, legal, and practical challenges
of military force as a tool of foreign policy, especially focused on the
complexity of using force to pursue humanitarian goals.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of just w ar theory,
international humanitarian law, and major theories of humanitarianism,
to analyze the stakes and trade-offs involved in decisions about war and
peace, and to critically engage with contemporary foreign policy events
PLSC 389   State Politics   (3 Credit Hours)   
A comparative study of the composition and powers of state
governments.
Course equivalencies:  PLSC389 / PLSC221   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of state
governments, the patterns of political participation and behavior of
diverse individuals and groups in state politics, and evaluate the roles and
processes of state political institutions
PLSC 390   Urban Politics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Political processes in cities and other local governments, Examination
of mayors, city councils, bureaucrats, and their interaction with local
citizens and interest groups.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services, Race and Ethnicity, Urban
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  PLSC390 / PLSC222   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of urban
governments, the patterns of political participation and behavior of
diverse individuals and groups in urban politics, and evaluate the roles
and processes of urban political institutions
PLSC 391   Chicago Politics   (3 Credit Hours)   
The political groups in Chicago, their political power and impact on city
politics and policy. Attention will be given to the powers and roles of city
council and the mayor's ofﬁce.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services, Italian American Studies   
Course equivalencies:  PLSC391 / PLSC224   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of Chicago
government, the patterns of political participation and behavior of diverse
individuals and groups in Chicago politics, and evaluate the roles and
processes of Chicago's political institutions
PLSC 392   Environmental Politics   (3 Credit Hours)   
The issues, signiﬁcant actors, and public policies relating to the
environment. (ESP 235) (PAX 235)
Interdisciplinary Option:  Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies, Urban
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  PLSC392/PLSC/ESP/PAX235   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze and assess the role of various actors in
the formulation, adoption and implementation of environmental public
policies, and their impact on the everyday lives of citizensPLSC 393   Black Politics   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will present a general overview of black politics in America,
including the major black political ideologies and their theoretical
underpinnings and the role of race in urban politics in the late twentieth
and early twenty-ﬁrst centuries.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora   
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST374/PLSC393/BWS374   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of how the circumstances of
Reconstruction shaped black political ideologies; how blacks came into
political power in major urban centers; and what the contours of debate
are in the black community over provocative issues such as the criminal
justice system, afﬁrmative action, reparations, and education
PLSC 395   Political Science Honors Seminar   (3 Credit Hours)   
Variable titles. Investigation of selected topics or methods in Political
Science.
Outcomes:
Students will gain an in-depth knowledge of a unique topic or method in
Political Science
PLSC 396   Directed Readings   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Opportunity for an unusually accomplished student to pursue a discrete
area of knowledge in political studies in a format designed to stimulate
highly productive effort.
Outcomes:
Students will hone research and writing skills in close collaboration with
a faculty sponsor
PLSC 397   Urban Studies Research   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course allows students to engage in research-related projects related
to urban studies.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Urban Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC397/URB397   
PLSC 398   Washington DC Internship Seminar   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course requires you to combine your academic interests and
your internship, allowing you to reflect on and think deeply about the
relationship between your internship, experience and academic learning.
This course will also explore political Washington.
Outcomes:
This course will clarify students' career goals, and demonstrate how
these goals can be enhanced by their academic work
PLSC 399   Tunisia On-Site: Arab Spring, Democratic Change, Islam   (3
Credit Hours)   
A combination of site visits, lectures, and group discussions throughout
Tunisia provides a unique experiential understanding of the relationship
between the Arab spring, democratic change, Islam, gender relations, and
U.S. foreign policy amidst the historical inheritances of the Carthaginian,
Roman, Islamic, and French empires in North Africa.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Arabic
Language and Culture, Global Studies, Islamic World Studies, Women &
Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC 399/HIST 313T   
Outcomes:
Experientially based knowledge of the politics, society, culture, history,
and international relations of a country (Tunisia) in a region (North Africa)
at the intersection of Africa and the Middle East
Honors in Political Science
Qualiﬁed political science majors may graduate with honors in political
science. This program honors students who achieve academic excellence
in their studies and who successfully complete additional training in

--- Page 606 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 637
a special topics research seminar ( PLSC 395 Political Science Honors
Seminar ). This course is offered each spring and students may enroll in it
in their junior or senior year. Admission requires a 3.5 GPA overall and in
political science. Admitted students may register for PLSC 395 Political
Science Honors Seminar  in the spring semester of their junior or senior
year provided they have successfully completed seven political science
classes (21 credit hours). The Honors Seminar will not count toward the
33 credit hours required for a political science major or as one of the
required subﬁeld courses.
For more information about the Political Science Honors Program, please
contact Professor David Doherty ( ddoherty@luc.edu )
Law and Politics Minor
The Minor in Law and Politics features courses meant to serve students
who are interested in the intersection of Political Science, law, and legal
institutions. Students are required to take an Introductory Political
Science course and the Introduction to Law course. After that students
take at least one course in the three ﬁelds of: American Law, International
Law, and an experiential learning course related to the legal ﬁeld.
For inquiries, please contact Professor Amanda Savage
(abryan2@luc.edu), director of the Minor in Law and Politics.
Related Programs
Major
•Political Science (BA)  (p. 638)
Minor
•Political Science Minor  (p. 640)
Curriculum
To graduate with a minor in Law and Politics, students must complete
18 hours of coursework (6 courses). Speciﬁcally, all minors must take:
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesPLSC 385Introduction to Law 13
Select one of the following:  13PLSC 100Political TheoryPLSC 101 American PoliticsPLSC 102International Relations in an Age of GlobalizationPLSC 103 Comparative PoliticsSelect one upper-division course in EACH of the three (3) focus areas:9
(1) America Legal SystemPLSC 195Law and Civil RightsPLSC 300A Contemporary Political Issues: American PoliticsPLSC 319Women, Law & Public PolicyPLSC 320 Constitutional Law-Due ProcessPLSC 321Constitutional Law-Powers of GovernmentPLSC 322 Constitutional Law-Rights and LibertiesPLSC 357Hollywood and LawPLSC 372 Crime, Race & ViolencePLSC 379The Legislative ProcessPLSC 384 The Judicial ProcessPLSC 389State Politics(2) International LawPLSC 213International Human RightsPLSC 301 Political JusticePLSC 316Politics of GenocidePLSC 330 Global JusticePLSC 353International LawPLSC 356 Intervent in World PoliticsPLSC 364UN & International OrganizationPLSC 367 Model United NationsPLSC 371Roman LawPLSC 388 The Morality and Legality of War(3) Law-related Engaged Learning CoursePLSC 202 Mock TrialPLSC 203Moot CourtPLSC 369 Politics of EnergySelect one more upper-division course from one of the three (3) focus
areas.3Total Hours18
1This course is not a prerequisite and can be completed at any time.
Special Note for Political Science Majors: Students majoring
political science may double-count the introductory ( PLSC 100 Political
Theory , PLSC 101 American Politics , PLSC 102 International Relations in
an Age of Globalization , or PLSC 103 Comparative Politics ) course from
their political science major. However, the rest of the credit requirements
for a Law and Politics minor are in addition to the requirements of a
Political Science major.
Learning Outcomes
•Acquire a foundational understanding of the interactions between law
and politic and be able to demonstrate a complex understanding of
the political and legal processes and their impact on societies and
individuals.
•By taking at least one course focusing on legal and political aspects
of the American system, students will learn and demonstrate an
understanding of differences of class, gender, and race in our legal
and political system, with a view to fashioning a more humane and
just society.
•By taking at least one course focusing on political and legal
interactions in other nations, students will be expected to
demonstrate an awareness that human values and behavior, ideas of
justice, and methods of interpretation are influenced by culture and
time.
•Through engaged learning courses, students will integrate learning
through reflection, connecting and synthesizing disciplinary
knowledge and out of classroom experiences to generate new
understanding.
The program has a strong emphasis on engaged learning. This will allow
students not just to read about legal and political causes and effects on
the way societies function, but also to experience ﬁrsthand the intricacies
of such interactions. Consequently, upon completion of the program,
students are expected to develop a better understanding of themselves
and their role in society and the world, beyond their aforementioned
demonstrated social understanding.

--- Page 607 ---
638  Political Science (BA)
Political Science (BA)
The Political Science major encompasses four subﬁelds: political theory,
international relations, comparative politics, and American politics. The
major allows students flexibility to explore their interests by taking a
variety of classes across subﬁelds or to dive deeper into one or two
subﬁelds that interest them. Students can also participate in our robust
internship programs both in Chicago and in Washington, DC.
Related Programs
Minor
•Political Science Minor  (p. 640)
Combined
•Political Science (BA/MA)  (p. 1313 )
•Political Science/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1318 )
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
PLSC RequirementsSelect three of the following:  19
PLSC 100 Political TheoryPLSC 101American PoliticsPLSC 102 International Relations in an Age of GlobalizationPLSC 103Comparative PoliticsSubﬁeld Requirements  (p. 638)One (1) course in American Politics Subﬁeld  (p. 638)3
One (1) course in Political Theory Subﬁeld  (p. 639) 3One (1) course in Comparative Politics Subﬁeld  (p. 639)3
One (1) course in International Relations Subﬁeld  (p. 639) 3Four (4) PLSC Electives12Total Hours33
1If students take PLSC 100, 101, or 102 as the three required courses for
the major, they can  also take PLSC 103 and have it count as an elective
in the major. Students in the BA/MA Political Science and Students in
the BA/MA in  International Affairs can count two of the graduate level
courses (at the 400 or 500 level)  that they take in their senior year as
electives in the PLSC major, alongside the other two courses at the 200
or 300 level.
Curricular Notes
•The Political Science internship program ( PLSC 370 ), a 3- or 6-credit
hour course, counts as one of the four Political Science electives.
Only 3 credits of PLSC 370  may count toward the PLSC major, the
other three will be counted as general electives. An exception is made
for students who complete an internship in Chicago as well as an
internship via the Washington, DC program. In that case, 3 credit
hours from each internship may be applied to the major.
•The following courses do not fulﬁll subﬁeld requirements but do
count as electives toward the PLSC major:  PLSC 396 Directed
Readings  and PLSC 216 Political Numbers  (PLSC 216 also fulﬁlls the
core quantitative reasoning requirement.) 
•The following courses neither fulﬁll subﬁeld requirements nor count
as electives toward the PLSC major: PLSC 395 Political Science
Honors Seminar .  This is an extra course that students take beyondthe major requirements in order to graduate with Honors in Political
Science. 
Subﬁeld Courses
American Politics
Code Title Hours
PLSC 202 Mock Trial 13PLSC 203Moot Court 13
PLSC 208 Representation in the United States 3PLSC 215Politics of Marginalized Groups3
PLSC 218 African-American Politics 3PLSC 236Political Communication3
PLSC 238 Political Advocacy 3PLSC 251Women in American Politics3
PLSC 300A Contemporary Political Issues: American Politics 3PLSC 318Politics & the Economy3
PLSC 319 Women, Law & Public Policy 3PLSC 320Constitutional Law-Due Process3
PLSC 321 Constitutional Law-Powers of Government 3PLSC 322Constitutional Law-Rights and Liberties3
PLSC 323 Children, Law & Public Policy 3PLSC 324Civil-Military Relations3
PLSC 326 American National Security 3PLSC 327Political Psychology3
PLSC 328 Political Behavior 3PLSC 329Interest Group Politics3
PLSC 332 Politics of American Bureaucracies 3PLSC 334Urban Policies and Problems3
PLSC 335 Urban Semester Seminar 3PLSC 357Hollywood and Law3
PLSC 372 Crime, Race & Violence 3PLSC 376Political Behavior and Public Opinion3
PLSC 377 American Public Policies 3PLSC 378Intro to Political Economy3
PLSC 379 The Legislative Process 3PLSC 380Public Policy Analysis3
PLSC 381 The American Presidency 3PLSC 384The Judicial Process3
PLSC 385 Introduction to Law 3PLSC 386Campaigns and Elections3
PLSC 387 Politics and the Press 3PLSC 389State Politics3
PLSC 390 Urban Politics 3PLSC 391Chicago Politics3
PLSC 392 Environmental Politics 3PLSC 393Black Politics3
PLSC 398 Washington DC Internship Seminar 23
1This course is Engaged Learning.
2This course is Writing Intensive.

--- Page 608 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 639
Political Theory
Code Title Hours
PLSC 300B Contemporary Political Issues: Political Theory 3PLSC 301Political Justice3
PLSC 302 American Political Thought 3PLSC 303Conservatism3
PLSC 304 Ancient Political Thought 3PLSC 306Modern Political Thought3
PLSC 307 Democratic Theory 3PLSC 308Contemporary Political Thought3
PLSC 309 Socialism 3PLSC 310BCatholic Political Thought3
PLSC 312 Feminist Theory 3PLSC 313Resistance and Obligation3
PLSC 314 Liberalism 3PLSC 330Global Justice3
PLSC 331 Islamic Political Thought 3PLSC 339Political Ideologies3
PLSC 371 Roman Law 3PLSC 373Politics and Literature3
PLSC 388 The Morality and Legality of War 3
Comparative Politics
Code Title Hours
PLSC 232 Politics of the United Kingdom 3PLSC 300CContemporary Political Issues: Comparative
Politics3
PLSC 336 Politics in Contemporary China 3PLSC 337Terrorism3
PLSC 339 Political Ideologies 3PLSC 342African Politics3
PLSC 343 Latin American Politics 3PLSC 344Contemporary Issues in Latin America3
PLSC 345 South & Southeast Asian Politics 3PLSC 346East Asian Politics3
PLSC 347 The European Union 3PLSC 348Soviet & Post-Soviet Politics3
PLSC 349 Eastern European Politics 3PLSC 352Canadian Politics3
PLSC 355C Women and Politics: A Cross-National Perspective 3PLSC 359Revolutions3
PLSC 360 Western European Politics 3PLSC 362Politics Developing Societies3
PLSC 365 Italian Politics & Government 3PLSC 366Dictatorship3
PLSC 368 Politics of the Middle East 3PLSC 374Democracy3
GLST 303 Technological Change and Society 3
International Relations
Code Title Hours
PLSC 204 Conflict Management 3PLSC 213International Human Rights3
PLSC 252 Capitalism and Its Discontents 3PLSC 300DContemporary Political issues in International
Relations3
PLSC 316 Politics of Genocide 3PLSC 317Politics of International Health3
PLSC 325 American Foreign Policy 3PLSC 333Crossing Borders: The Politics of Immigration3
PLSC 340 International Relations of Africa 3PLSC 350Politics of International Economic Relations3
PLSC 351 Latin American International System 3PLSC 353International Law3
PLSC 354 Global Environmental Politics 3PLSC 356Intervent in World Politics3
PLSC 358 War, Peace and Politics 3PLSC 358DThe Scientiﬁc Study of War3
PLSC 363 International Politics 3PLSC 364UN & International Organization3
PLSC 367 Model United Nations 13PLSC 369Politics of Energy3
GLST 302 States and Firms 3GLST 305Globalization and Environmental Sustainability3
1This course is Engaged Learning.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
Students can begin the Political Science (BA) degree at any point in
their undergraduate studies, in consultation with their advisor.  While
there is no set sequence of classes, students are encouraged to take
introductory classes ( PLSC 100 , PLSC 101 , PLSC 102 , and  PLSC 103 )
before taking upper division classes in those subﬁelds. For example,
although it is not required, students may beneﬁt from taking  PLSC 101
American Politics  before taking an upper division class on Campaigns
and Elections in the United States. Once students have declared the
major, they are encouraged to contact the Political Science Department’s
Undergraduate Program Director for further guidance on how best to
progress with their studies.
Transferring Credit
At least 17 credit hours of PLSC courses must be completed at Loyola.
Double Dipping Policy
Political Science adheres to the CAS Double Dipping Policy  (p. 55).
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN

--- Page 609 ---
640  Political Science Minor
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
The BA in Political Science is designed to achieve the following learning
outcomes:
•Demonstrate an understanding of the structures and functions of
political systems.
•Be able to apply political theories and concepts when interpreting
past and current events.
•Recognize the influence of cultural, social, and historical contexts on
political behavior, values, institutions, or policies.
•Characterize the roots of enduring social disagreements and
conflicts.
•Evaluate normative or empirical claims about political phenomena.
•Demonstrate an ability to communicate effectively about complex
political issues.
•Develop research skills to gather, evaluate, and synthesize
information from multiple sources to support arguments or theories
in political science.
For more information, please contact Professor David Doherty
(ddoherty@luc.edu ), Undergraduate Program Director for the Department
of Political Science.
Political Science Minor
The Political Science minor invites students to learn about four subﬁelds:
political theory, international relations, comparative politics, and
American politics. Students have the flexibility to explore their interests
by taking a variety of classes across subﬁelds or to dive deeper into one
or two subﬁelds that interest them. Students can also participate in our
robust internship programs both in Chicago and in Washington, DC.
For more information, please contact Professor David Doherty
(ddoherty@luc.edu ), Undergraduate Program Director for the Department
of Political Science.
Related Programs
Major
•Political Science (BA)  (p. 638)
Minor
•Law and Politics Minor  (p. 637)
Curriculum
To graduate with a minor in Political Science, students must complete 18
hours of course work (6 courses) in the department or through transfer or
advanced placement credit.
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesSelect two of the following:6
PLSC 100 Political TheoryPLSC 101American PoliticsPLSC 102 International Relations in an Age of GlobalizationPLSC 103Comparative PoliticsSelect four additional courses, either introductory or upper-level
classes, regardless of the subﬁeld.12Total Hours18
Subﬁeld Courses
American Politics
Code Title Hours
PLSC 202 Mock Trial 13PLSC 203Moot Court 13
PLSC 208 Representation in the United States 3PLSC 215Politics of Marginalized Groups3
PLSC 218 African-American Politics 3PLSC 236Political Communication3
PLSC 238 Political Advocacy 3PLSC 251Women in American Politics3
PLSC 300A Contemporary Political Issues: American Politics 3PLSC 318Politics & the Economy3
PLSC 319 Women, Law & Public Policy 3PLSC 320Constitutional Law-Due Process3
PLSC 321 Constitutional Law-Powers of Government 3PLSC 322Constitutional Law-Rights and Liberties3
PLSC 323 Children, Law & Public Policy 3PLSC 324Civil-Military Relations3
PLSC 326 American National Security 3PLSC 327Political Psychology3
PLSC 328 Political Behavior 3PLSC 329Interest Group Politics3
PLSC 332 Politics of American Bureaucracies 3PLSC 334Urban Policies and Problems3
PLSC 335 Urban Semester Seminar 3PLSC 357Hollywood and Law3
PLSC 372 Crime, Race & Violence 3PLSC 376Political Behavior and Public Opinion3
PLSC 377 American Public Policies 3PLSC 378Intro to Political Economy3
PLSC 379 The Legislative Process 3PLSC 380Public Policy Analysis3
PLSC 381 The American Presidency 3PLSC 384The Judicial Process3
PLSC 385 Introduction to Law 3PLSC 386Campaigns and Elections3
PLSC 387 Politics and the Press 3PLSC 389State Politics3
PLSC 390 Urban Politics 3PLSC 391Chicago Politics3
PLSC 392 Environmental Politics 3PLSC 393Black Politics3
PLSC 398 Washington DC Internship Seminar 23
1This course is Engaged Learning.
2This course is Writing Intensive.

--- Page 610 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 641
Political Theory
Code Title Hours
PLSC 300B Contemporary Political Issues: Political Theory 3PLSC 301Political Justice3
PLSC 302 American Political Thought 3PLSC 303Conservatism3
PLSC 304 Ancient Political Thought 3PLSC 306Modern Political Thought3
PLSC 307 Democratic Theory 3PLSC 308Contemporary Political Thought3
PLSC 309 Socialism 3PLSC 310BCatholic Political Thought3
PLSC 312 Feminist Theory 3PLSC 313Resistance and Obligation3
PLSC 314 Liberalism 3PLSC 330Global Justice3
PLSC 331 Islamic Political Thought 3PLSC 339Political Ideologies3
PLSC 373 Politics and Literature 3PLSC 388The Morality and Legality of War3
Comparative Politics
Code Title Hours
PLSC 232 Politics of the United Kingdom 3PLSC 300CContemporary Political Issues: Comparative
Politics3
PLSC 336 Politics in Contemporary China 3PLSC 337Terrorism3
PLSC 339 Political Ideologies 3PLSC 342African Politics3
PLSC 343 Latin American Politics 3PLSC 344Contemporary Issues in Latin America3
PLSC 345 South & Southeast Asian Politics 3PLSC 346East Asian Politics3
PLSC 347 The European Union 3PLSC 348Soviet & Post-Soviet Politics3
PLSC 349 Eastern European Politics 3PLSC 352Canadian Politics3
PLSC 355C Women and Politics: A Cross-National Perspective 3PLSC 359Revolutions3
PLSC 360 Western European Politics 3PLSC 362Politics Developing Societies3
PLSC 365 Italian Politics & Government 3PLSC 366Dictatorship3
PLSC 368 Politics of the Middle East 3PLSC 374Democracy3
GLST 303 Technological Change and Society 3
International Relations
Code Title Hours
PLSC 204 Conflict Management 3PLSC 213International Human Rights3
PLSC 252 Capitalism and Its Discontents 3PLSC 300DContemporary Political issues in International
Relations3
PLSC 316 Politics of Genocide 3PLSC 317Politics of International Health3
PLSC 325 American Foreign Policy 3PLSC 333Crossing Borders: The Politics of Immigration3
PLSC 340 International Relations of Africa 3PLSC 350Politics of International Economic Relations3
PLSC 351 Latin American International System 3PLSC 353International Law3
PLSC 354 Global Environmental Politics 3PLSC 356Intervent in World Politics3
PLSC 358 War, Peace and Politics 3PLSC 358DThe Scientiﬁc Study of War3
PLSC 363 International Politics 3PLSC 364UN & International Organization3
PLSC 367 Model United Nations 13PLSC 369Politics of Energy3
GLST 302 States and Firms 3GLST 305Globalization and Environmental Sustainability3
1This course is Engaged Learning.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
Students can begin the Political Science minor at any point in their
undergraduate studies, in consultation with their advisor.  While there is
no set sequence of classes, students are encouraged to take introductory
classes ( PLSC 100 , PLSC 101 , PLSC 102 , and PLSC 103 ) before taking
upper division classes in those subﬁelds. For example, although it is
not required, students may beneﬁt from taking PLSC 101 American
Politics  before taking an upper division class on Campaigns and
Elections in the United States. Once students have declared their minor,
they are encouraged to contact the Political Science Department’s
Undergraduate Program Director for further guidance on how best to
progress with their studies.
Learning Outcomes
The Minor in Political Science is designed to achieve the following
learning outcomes:
•Demonstrate an understanding of the structures and functions of
political systems.
•Be able to apply political theories and concepts when interpreting
past and current events.
•Recognize the influence of cultural, social, and historical contexts on
political behavior, values, institutions, or policies.
•Characterize the roots of enduring social disagreements and
conflicts.
•Evaluate normative or empirical claims about political phenomena.
•Demonstrate an ability to communicate effectively about complex
political issues.
•Develop research skills to gather, evaluate, and synthesize
information from multiple sources to support arguments or theories
in political science.

--- Page 611 ---
642  International Affairs Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's Programs
International Affairs Accelerated
Bachelor's/Master's Programs
•Advertising & Public Relations/International Affairs (BA/MA)
(p. 972)
•Advertising Creative/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 987)
•Advocacy and Social Change/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 998)
•Communication Studies/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1062 )
•Criminal Justice and Criminology/International Affairs (BS/MA)
(p. 1075 )
•Elementary Education/International Affairs (BSEd/MA)  (p. 1089 )
•Film and Digital Media: Film and Media Production Track/
International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1202 )
•Film and Digital Media: International Programming Track/
International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1214 )
•Global Studies/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1219 )
•History/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1245 )
•Multimedia Journalism/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1298 )
•Philosophy/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1306 )
•Political Science/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1318 )
•Psychology/International Affairs (BS/MA)  (p. 1327 )
•Secondary Education/International Affairs (BSEd/MA)  (p. 1335 )
•Social Work/International Affairs (BSW/MA)  (p. 1355 )
•Sociology/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1364 )
•Special Education/International Affairs (BSEd/MA)  (p. 1372 )
•Theology/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1388 )
Psychology
Career Opportunities
After completing their undergraduate degrees, psychology graduates
typically earn graduate or professional degrees or pursue employment.
Graduate studies include specializations within the ﬁeld in clinical,
cognitive, industrial, social, educational, counseling, or developmental
psychology. Employment in psychology-related professional positions
include alcohol/drug counselor, child-care worker, geriatric counselor,
hospital ombudsman, management trainee, market researcher, mental
health specialist, human resources professional, sales representative, and
teacher.  For more details on the types of careers graduate pursue and
details on how to pursue them please visit our Psychology Career Finder
(https://www.luc.edu/psychology/resources/psychologycareerﬁnder/ ).
Prospective Students
If you are interested in learning more about undergraduate studies
in the Loyola University Chicago Department of Psychology, please
request additional information about Loyola and our program using
the Undergraduate Request Form  (https://uao.luc.edu/register/?
id=09e1ac8b-c620-43cc-afe7-325cad54eec2 ).
Undergraduate Programs
•Honors in Psychology  (p. 649)
•Psychology (BS)  (p. 650)
•Psychology/Applied Social Psychology (BS/MA)  (p. 1324 )•Psychology/International Affairs (BS/MA)  (p. 1327 )
•Psychology Minor  (p. 653)
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Psychology (PSYC)
PSYC 100   Psychological Perspectives on the Experience of
Globalization   (3 Credit Hours)   
Globalization from a psychological perspective. Applying core
psychological concepts, research and theory to cross-cultural issues of
behavior and development. Topics may include human rights of children,
human trafﬁcking, immigration, moral issues of international trade,
parenting across cultures.
Knowledge Area:  Foundational Societal Knowledge   
Outcomes:
Students will learn basic concepts and theories and apply them to real-
world globalization problems
PSYC 101   General Psychology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100, PLSC 102, PSYC 100, SOCL 101, WSGS 101, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
Introduction to concepts, theories, and methods in psychology. Emphasis
is given to the scientiﬁc study of consciousness and human behavior.
Topics include: human development, learning, thinking, perception,
personality, testing, mental illness and mental health, biological and
social aspects of behavior.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services, Psychology of Crime and
Justice   
Course equivalencies:  ACPSY 201 / PSYC 101   
Outcomes:
Students will master basic concepts and key theories and learn to apply
them to real-world situations
PSYC 201   Psychology Advising and Career Development   (1 Credit
Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101, PSYC-BS major   
Overview of the psychology major at Loyola and career options in
psychology. Introduces students to psychology career development
resources. Students will also prepare for opportunities in independent
research and internships and plan for a career including creating a
resume and CV.
Outcomes:
Students will learn about career options in psychology and plan their
psychology major to support and develop their career interests
PSYC 225   Psychology of Peace   (3 Credit Hours)   
Application of psychological theories, concepts, and research to issues
of peace and conflict. Areas covered include international conflicts
and international peacebuilding (including war, terrorism, and global
environmental issues) as well as interpersonal conflicts and conflict
resolution (including crime, family violence, and conflict arising from
prejudice and perceived threat). Classic theories of peace are also
analyzed and connected to psychological theory and research.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies   
Course equivalencies:  PSYC 225/PAX225   

--- Page 612 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 643
PSYC 235   Psychology of Human Sexuality   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101   
This course will explore sexuality as a multi-faceted and diverse
phenomenon structured by individual experience, interpersonal
relationships, and societal institutions. Topics include anatomy and
physiology, intersectionality, power and privilege, sexual diversity,
attraction and love, relationships, and sexual health education.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics, Human Services, Women & Gender
Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the biological,
psychological and socio-cultural aspects of human sexuality, along with
gender and sexual diversity
PSYC 237   Cross-Cultural Psychology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101   
Students will learn about cultural factors that influence cognition,
perception, emotion, behavior, motivation, and mental health. Similarities
and difference in both explicit and implicit cultural factors will be
emphasized. Students will explore their identities, values, and biases.
Students will engage in reflection to increase cultural awareness and
sensitivity towards others.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of concepts and research
methodologies in cross-cultural psychology; Students will develop critical
thinking skills, as well as increased cultural awareness and sensitivity
towards others
PSYC 238   Gender & Sex Differences & Similarities   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100, PLSC 102, PSYC 100, SOCL 101, WSGS 101, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
Overview of psychological research and theory concerning differences
and similarities between genders. In this course, students will engage
psychological research and theory to examine the influence of gender on
all aspects of life. In general, emphasis will be placed on understanding
gender as a social psychological construct.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics, Human Services, Women & Gender
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  PSYC238/WOST238/WSGS238   
Outcomes:
Students will understand similarities and differences between genders,
comprehend the diversity of ideas about gender and how ideas of gender
are determined by societies and cultures
PSYC 239   Understanding Bias and Inclusivity   (3 Credit Hours)   
Using an intersectional lens, students learn about how privileg e, power,
and oppression shape ourselves, perceptions of others, and our social
world. They consider how ourselves and others are shaped by and
operate within the larger social system. Students explore their identities,
values, and biases. Students engage in self-reflection to increase self-
awareness. Articulate how personal power can be used to create change.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Race and Ethnicity, Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X - PSYC 239/ SOCL 239   
Outcomes:
Identify feelings about course topics; Demonstrate self-awareness
of identities and values, including the value of difference; Engage in
intergroup dialoguePSYC 240   Psychology-Biology of Perception   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101; For Biology majors: BIOL 102, BIOL 112, and
PSYC 101 Introduction to the study of sensory systems, especially vision
and audition, emphasizing historical development of the ﬁeld, multi-
disciplinary scientiﬁc approaches; recent research and theory on the
mechanisms of seeing and hearing; and applications of research to real-
world problems   
PSYC 240 is cross-listed with BIOL 240.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Course equivalencies:  X-PSYC240/BIOL240   
Outcomes:
Students will understand and be able to explain how knowledge of
the functioning of sensory systems is obtained using a variety of
experimental methods, how stimulus energy is translated into neural
signals, how the brain processes sensory information, and how these
processes determine conscious perception
PSYC 250   Cognitive Psychology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101   
Overview of cognitive psychology. Topics include: human information
processing, object recognition, memory, attention, language production
and comprehension, reasoning and problem solving.
Outcomes:
Students will understand and be able to explain how knowledge about
mental events is obtained using a variety of experimental methods,
discuss current empirical research and theories of cognition, understand
well established cognitive theories about attention, memory, language
processing, reasoning and decision-making
PSYC 251   Learning and Memory   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Grade of C- or better in PSYC 101 and NEUR 101   
This course surveys the ﬁeld of learning and memory, including working,
episodic, and semantic memory, nonassociative learning, classical and
operant conditioning, skill learning, and neuroplasticity. Behavioral,
neuroscientiﬁc, and clinical perspectives will be considered.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
PSYC 273   Developmental Psychology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101   
Survey of theory and research relevant to human growth and
development with emphasis on physical, cognitive, and social
development from infancy through adolescence.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services   
Course equivalencies:  X-CPSY273/PSYC273   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of basic theory and research
in human development, and will develop skills in critical examination
of psychological research as applied to current issues in human
development
PSYC 274   Lifespan Development   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101   
This course provides a survey of current theory, research, and
applications on development (physical, cognitive, and social/emotional
development) that are present at each stage of the lifespan. Normal
development is emphasized; however, special human circumstances are
also explored.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of theory and research in
development across the lifespan; Students will develop critical thinking
skills, applying research to contemporary issues in lifespan development

--- Page 613 ---
644  Psychology
PSYC 275   Social Psychology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100, PLSC 102, PSYC 100, SOCL 101, WSGS 101, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
Introduction to the ﬁeld of social psychology; including topics such
as social cognition, impression formation, social influence, attitude
formation and change, stereotyping and prejudice, aggression, pro-social
behavior, and group behavior.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services, Psychology of Crime and
Justice   
Course equivalencies:  ACPSY 275 / PSYC 275   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate the ability to think critically about fundamental
theoretical approaches within social psychology, scientiﬁc methods of
hypothesis testing, and potential applications of social psychology that
address real-world problems
PSYC 276   Philosophy of Mind   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHIL 130   
This course is a study of the different philosophical views regarding the
nature and the existence of the mind and its relation to material bodies.
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the various
philosophical views and problems regarding the mind and its relation to
matter.
Course equivalencies:  X-PSYC 276/ PHIL 276/PHIL 176   
PSYC 277   Environmental Psychology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Human behavior is at the root of environmental degradation. This course
examines how psychological processes influence behaviors that help or
hurt the environment and how psychology can promote conservation.
The course identiﬁes theory-based interventions and evaluates their
effectiveness. Class activities allow students to practice applying
psychology to promote environmental sustainability.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to identify the psychological bases of environmental
problems; Students will be introduced to theories and practical strategies
to change behavior as it relates to environmental issues
PSYC 280   Psychology of Judgment and Decision-Making   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHIL 130 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions; Students can only take one
course from PHIL 279, PSYC 279, PSYC 280   
This course examines the forces that shape decision-making, from the
individual and day-to-day to the shaping of public policy. Psychological
research on cognitive biases, economic models, and philosophical
perspectives on deductive reasoning and what makes a good decision
will be discussed.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Philosophical Knowledge   
Outcomes:
Students will learn fundamental principles and theories - including
various biases and decision-making errors, and learn to apply the course
to improve thinking, problem-solving, and decisions
PSYC 302   History & Systems in Psychology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101   
A systematic treatment of the historical roots and foundation of
psychology. Special emphasis is placed on relating past trends to current
developments in the ﬁeld.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of the foundations of psychology
as a science, including major schools and theoretical frameworks, and
make connections between past trends and current approachesPSYC 304   Statistics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101   
This course is an introduction to fundamentals of statistical analysis in
psychology.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate the ability to analyze data, interpret the
results of research using basic statistical methods, and understand
the conceptual foundation, appropriate use, and limitations of these
statistical methods
PSYC 306   Research Methods in Psychology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 304   
Logic and theory of the scientiﬁc method. Basic principles of scientiﬁc
research methodologies employed in approaching major problem areas in
psychology. This class is writing intensive.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services, Urban Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge and skills necessary to formulate
research questions and hypotheses, develop research designs,
operationalize variables and gather data in an ethical manner, choose
appropriate statistical methods for analyzing data, interpret results of
statistical analyses, write a scientiﬁc paper in APA style, and critically
evaluate research
PSYC 307   Psychology of Language   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101   
Analysis of language as symbol-behavior speciﬁc to humans,
language structure and competence, language performance, and
the neurophysiological basis of language. Methods for investigating
language processing, acquisition, bilingualism, and language disorders
will be considered.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of major theories, research
methodologies, and empirical knowledge in the study of language
PSYC 310   Lab in Program Evaluation   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 306; PSYC 275 is also recommended   
Special attention is given to the fundamental skills needed to evaluate
human service programs including research methodology and research
diplomacy. The strengths and weaknesses of several evaluation
strategies will be discussed in terms of scientiﬁc validity, ethical
constraints, and political acceptability.
Outcomes:
Students apply their developing evaluation skills in a class project and
present the data in a written report
PSYC 311   Lab in Psychobiology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (BIOL/STAT 335 or PSYC 304) and (NEUR 101, PSYC/
BIOL 240, or PSYC 382/BIOL 284); OR for PSYC-BS and Cognitive/
Behavioral Neuroscience majors: PSYC 306 and (NEUR 101, PSYC/
BIOL 240, or PSYC 382/BIOL 284) Minimum grades of C-   
Introduction to the structures and functions of vertebrate
nervous systems, how these systems compute and process
information; laboratory experience with concepts and methods in the
neurophysiological study of the bases of perception and other behaviors.
Hearing is used as an example. PSYC 311 is cross-listed with BIOL 313.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Course equivalencies:  X-PSYC311/BIOL313   
Outcomes:
Students will learn the concepts of basic neurophysiology and the
theory of signal detectability, and have experience applying the logic and
formulation of neurophysiological theories of perception

--- Page 614 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 645
PSYC 312   Lab in Cognitive Neuroscience   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 306 and PSYC 382   
This course is a laboratory practicum in the techniques of cognitive
neuroscience, with an emphasis on electrophysiological and
hemodynamic methods of measuring nervous system function during
cognitive and behavioral tasks and the effects of noninvasive brain
stimulation.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Outcomes:
Students will develop scientiﬁc research skills as they relate to the ﬁeld
of cognitive neuroscience, including experimental design, physiological
methods of data collection, statistical analysis and interpretation, and
reporting ﬁndings
PSYC 313   Lab in Behavioral Neuroscience   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 306 and either PSYC 251 or PSYC 382   
Provides an understanding of the structure and function of the brain as
it relates to behavior through empirical data collection and analyses.
Course objectives will be met through demonstrations, hands-on
laboratory experience with different behavioral assays, histology, an
evaluation of scientiﬁc literature, and scientiﬁc communication via poster
presentations.
Outcomes:
Develop a breadth of neuroscientiﬁc knowledge and skills involving
critical thinking, research ethics, experimental design, animal behavior,
data collection and analysis, and dissemination of scientiﬁc ﬁndings in
different formats
PSYC 314   Lab in Experimental Psychology: Cognition   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 306 (C-) and (C- in PSYC 250, PSYC 251, PSCY 307, or
PSYC 382)   
Laboratory demonstrations, experiments, and microcomputer
applications in the area of human cognition. Topics vary, but include
learning, memory, thinking and language processing.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Outcomes:
Students gain skills and experience in experimental design,
measurement, statistical analyses, and report writing as they relate to
research on human cognition
PSYC 315   Lab in Tests & Measurements   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 306 and either PSYC 331 or PSYC 346   
Topics include: theory of psychological testing and assessment;
historical context and related legal and ethical considerations; basics
of test construction and evaluation, including reliability, validity, and
standardization; and common measures of personality, attitudes, and
ability and their psychometric properties. PSYC 338 is recommended.
Outcomes:
Students will learn to demonstrate proﬁciency with psychological testing
terminology and conceptsPSYC 316   Lab in Experimental Psychology: Sense & Perception   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 306, NEUR 101 (formerly PSYC/BIOL 202) or
PSYC 240   
Laboratory demonstrations, experiments, and microcomputer
applications to the psychophysical and physiological study of sensory
systems. The course stresses the research methods and quantitative
measures that are used in characterizing sensory processes, especially
visual and auditory systems.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Outcomes:
Students gain skills and experience in experimental design,
measurement, statistical analyses, and report writing as they relate to
research in sensory processes
PSYC 318   Lab in Developmental Psychology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  C- or better in PSYC 306 and either PSYC 273 or PSYC 274   
Lecture and laboratory on empirical studies of developmental processes
in humans. Focus is on research in particular content areas within
developmental stages (e.g., infancy, childhood, adolescence, adulthood)
and research on changes in behavior across time.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate skills and knowledge of developmental
methodology, designing, conducting, and analyzing and interpreting the
results of a research project, and writing a research paper in APA format
PSYC 321   Laboratory-Social Psychology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 275 and 306   
Lectures, demonstrations, readings, and individual or group research
projects illustrating various methods, such as observation, interviewing,
archives, standardized tests, and experimentation, are used to learn about
topics such as group influences on the individual, attitudes, prosocial and
antisocial behavior, and perception of self and others.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate skills and knowledge of methodology in
social psychological research; designing, conducting, and analyzing and
interpreting the results of a research project, and writing a research paper
in APA format
PSYC 327   Lab on Body Image   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  C- or better in PSYC 306 and either PSYC 275 or PSYC 338   
Lab on Body Image focuses on the scholarly study of body image and
eating disorders, as well as how research is conducted in the ﬁeld.
Students will complete smaller labs and a larger research project in the
ﬁeld.
Outcomes:
1) Learn about the scholarly study of body image and eating dis orders;
2) Learn general research methods in Psychology and speciﬁc ones
pertaining to the topic; 3) Learn about computer packages, including
SPSS to analyze data
PSYC 331   Psychopathology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101   
Nature and causes of maladjustment and mental disorders. History of
mental illness, diagnosis, research, and treatment of mental disorders.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services, Psychology of Crime and
Justice   
Course equivalencies:  X-CPSY333/PSYC331/ACPSY280   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of current approaches
to researching maladaptive behavior, current views of maladaptive
behavior, major categories of "mental disorders", factors contributing to
development of problems, different types of intervention strategies, and
appreciation of social, ethical, and legal issues

--- Page 615 ---
646  Psychology
PSYC 332   Affective Neuroscience   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101 or NEUR 101 (formerly PSYC/BIOL 202)   
Affective experiences promote human adaptability and survival,
and healthy emotion function is critical to promoting physical and
psychological well being. The course will provide an overview of
fundamental neurobiological correlates associated with emotion function
and processing affective stimuli.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Outcomes:
Students will understand theories regarding brain mechanisms
associated with emotion processing and the techniques used for
studying these mechanisms
PSYC 338   Psychology of Personality   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101 Facts and principles of personality study   
Nature of personality, its structure, development, expression, and
measurement. Exposition and evaluation of personality study methods
with critical review of traditional and modern theories of personality.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Psychology of Crime and Justice   
Course equivalencies:  X-CPSY338/PSYC338   
Outcomes:
Students will acquire an understanding of different personality theories,
critically evaluate these theories, and apply what they have learned
PSYC 340   Psychology of Women   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101   
Review of psychological aspects of women's experiences. Topics include
psychological aspects of biological events such as menarche, pregnancy,
menopause; aspects of women's work and family roles; and mental
health issues relevant to women.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services, Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  PSYC340/WOST340/WSGS340   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of critical contemporary issues
impacting women and girls, and critically evaluate/analyze academic
theory, social institutions, and media
PSYC 346   Psychopathology of Childhood   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 273   
Consideration of the nature and causes of maladjustment, emotional
disorders, and learning disabilities in children in conjunction with
approaches to prevention and remediation.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services, Psychology of Crime and
Justice   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of the major categories of
childhood psychopathology and methods of diagnosis, theories of
causes of maladjustment and mental illness in children and adolescents,
and types of intervention strategies
PSYC 348   Psychology of Adolescence   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 273   
In-depth study of adolescence using an interdisciplinary approach.
Integration of cultural, social, psychological, and biological perspectives.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services, Psychology of Crime and
Justice   
Outcomes:
Students will appreciate the various factors leading to similarities and
differences in the experience of adolescence in America and in other
cultures, and will demonstrate understanding of major theories, research
methodologies, and empirical knowledge in the study of adolescencePSYC 349   Maturity and Aging   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 273 with a C- or better   
Overview of theory and research relevant to middle age and aging. Topics
include personality, cognitive and social functioning as well as biological
functioning. Applications to life situations such as living arrangements,
provision of health services, and retirement are discussed.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics, Human Services   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of major theories, research
methodologies, and empirical knowledge in the study of maturity
and aging, and learn to recognize and reject myths and stereotypes
associated with adult development and aging
PSYC 350   Developmental Cognitive Neuroscience   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101, NEUR 101 (formerly PSYC/BIOL 202)   
An overview of theory and research relevant to the study of the
developing child through the use of neuroscience methods; topics may
include: brain plasticity and maturation, sensorimotor systems, attention,
memory, executive function, language, social cognition, and typical and
atypical development.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Outcomes:
Students will gain knowledge of basic theory and research in the ﬁeld of
developmental cognitive neuroscience and will acquire understanding of
brain and behavior relationships in a developmental context
PSYC 352   Neuropsychology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101 and NEUR 101   
Neuropsychology is the interdisciplinary study of the relation between
human brain function and behavior. This course is an undergraduate
survey of topics related to neuropsychology, including neuroanatomy,
psychophysiology, and cognitive neuroscience. A primary goal of the
course is to introduce undergraduate students to neuropsychological
concepts in research and applied settings.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Outcomes:
Successful completion of this course leads to mastery of CNS function
and structure; The ability to integrate this information will allow students
to develop and test hypotheses about brain-behavior relationships
PSYC 353   Applied Social Psychology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 275   
Applications of principles and methods of social psychology to social
issues and problems in such areas as: law and justice, health and health
care, education, natural and built environments, population, work, life and
intergroup relations.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate the ability to apply knowledge of major
theories, research methodologies, and empirical knowledge in social
psychology to real-world issues and problems
PSYC 355   Neuroethics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  students must have taken at least two philosophy courses   
This course focuses on ethical considerations emerging from
contemporary research in neuroscience, as well as neuroscientiﬁc
techniques for studying ethical questions. Students will be able to
demonstrate understanding of the ways in which the study of ethics and
neuroscience inform each other
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Course equivalencies:  X - PSYC355/PHIL355   

--- Page 616 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 647
PSYC 356   Consumer Psychology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101   
Introduction to the ﬁeld of consumer psychology; including topics such
as consumer attitude formation and change, persuasive communication
and consumer behavior, the psychology of advertising, consumer
decision making, personality and consumer behavior, identity and
consumer behavior, and culture and consumer behavior.
Outcomes:
Students will understand and apply theoretical approaches within
consumer psychology and the psychology of advertising
PSYC 360   Understanding Prejudice   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101   
Prejudice from a psychological perspective. Applying psychological
concepts, research, and theory to understand the origins and
consequences of prejudice as well as potential remedies.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora,
Psychology of Crime and Justice, Race and Ethnicity, Women & Gender
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  BWS360/WSGS360   
Outcomes:
Students will learn the origins of stereotypes and prejudice, the nature
of prejudice against different social groups, how people are affected by
prejudice and cope with prejudice, and the processes that may change
stereotypes, reduce prejudice, and improve intergroup relations
PSYC 362   Industrial/Organizational Psychology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  C- or better in PSYC 101 Outcomes: Students will
demonstrate understanding and ability to think critically about how the
science of behavior is applied to work environments   
Study of human behavior in work settings. Topics include principles of
employee selection, job analysis, motivation and morale, managerial
behavior, organization development and socialization, leadership, conflict
management, work design and group process.
Course equivalencies:  PSYC362 / PSYC364   
PSYC 368   Counseling   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101; PSYC 331 or 338 is also recommended   
Introduction to the theory, techniques, and research behind major helping
interventions, focusing on individual psychotherapy with adults.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services   
Outcomes:
Students will critically evaluate different approaches to intervention
in terms of their theoretical underpinnings, applications, goals and
effectiveness, and will develop the ability to utilize some basic counseling
skills
PSYC 369   Psychology Honors Readings   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Membership in the Psychology Honors award program and
approval of the Department Honors Advisor   
Directed readings and development of a formal research proposal on a
topic of interest to the student and the faculty member with whom he/
she has chosen to work. Students are not restricted to working with the
faculty member whose name is listed in the schedule of classes.
Outcomes:
Students will write a literature review and research proposal for the
honors thesisPSYC 370   Psychology Honors Research   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 369   
Students carry out the research proposed in PSYC 369 and prepare a
formal report constituting the honors thesis. Approval of the thesis by
the honors committee earns the psychology honors award. PSYC 370 is a
capstone course.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  PSYC370H / PSYC370   
Outcomes:
Students will conduct research, analyze and interpret data, and write a
thesis
PSYC 371   Psychology of Political Behavior   (3 Credit Hours)   
Examination of the determinants of political judgments and decision;
including topics such as voting preference, stereotypes and political
thinking, racism and political behavior, ideology and public opinion, the
effect of the media on political thought.
Outcomes:
Understanding of core theoretical and methodological approaches
commonly applied to the study of political psychology
PSYC 372   Psychology & Law   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101   
Introduction to the areas of overlap between psychology and the
law. Topics include roles of psychologists in legal settings, accuracy
of eyewitness testimony, jury processes, accuracy of polygraph
examinations, and issues surrounding the insanity defense.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Psychology of Crime and Justice, Sociolegal
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X- CJC 377 / PSYC 372   
Outcomes:
Students will learn to analyze biases in the U.S. jury system, elucidate the
weaknesses of eyewitness testimony, outline the issues in the insanity
defense, understand the issues in Rape Trauma Syndrome and Battered
Spouse Syndrome, understand the methods and effects of scientiﬁc jury
selection, understand the complex issues surrounding confessions, and
view the US justice system in a social justice context
PSYC 373   Health Psychology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101   
Survey of psychological and behavioral influences on how people stay
healthy, why they become ill, and how they respond when they do become
ill. Topics include: health behavior and primary prevention, stress and
coping, patient-physician interaction, and management of chronic illness.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics, Human Services   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the complex
interaction of an individual's psychology and physical health, as well as
understanding of different intervention and prevention programs, the
structure of the health care system, and the various roles psychologists
play in this system
PSYC 374   Community Psychology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101   
Prevention of mental disorder and promotion of well-being, primarily
through creating more mentally healthy environments, but also by
enhancing individual resilience. Recognizing the toxicity of psychosocial
stressors such as inequality, poverty, alienation, and discrimination,
community psychologists also ﬁght for social justice through
empowerment of oppressed groups and policy advocacy. Understanding
of the methods of community psychology; effects of societal, cultural,
and environmental influences on psychological and community well-
being.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services, Neuroscience   

--- Page 617 ---
648  Psychology
PSYC 375   Psychology of Addiction   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101   
Survey of historical, demographical, and statistical aspects of substance
abuse. Abuse of alcohol and drugs, as well as eating disorders, may
be considered. A variety of theoretical models and interventions are
discussed.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Psychology of Crime and Justice   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of the psychopharmacological
effects of various substances, major research ﬁndings in the area of
substance abuse, and prevention and intervention techniques
PSYC 376   Psychology of Religion   (3 Credit Hours)   
Introduction to the major issues, theories and empirical approaches in the
psychology of religion; effect of religion on beliefs, motivations, emotions
and behaviors.
Outcomes:
Understanding of the relationship between religion and psychological
variables (eg, adjustment, prejudice, and prosocial behavior)
PSYC 377   Psychology of Music   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101   
Engagement in musical activities is common across all human cultures.
This course will introduce students to the interdisciplinary ﬁeld of
psychology of music and will focus on how humans perceive and are
affected by music, how we create music, and how music is integrated into
human life.
Outcomes:
Students will understand theories regarding brain mechanisms
associated with emotion processing and the techniques used for
studying these mechanisms
PSYC 378   Drugs and Behavior   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  NEUR 101   
This course will introduce students to neuropsychopharmacology.
Acute and long term effects of addictive drugs and drugs used to treat
psychiatric disorders on neural function and behavior are discussed by
integrating human and preclinical animal studies. Major types of drugs of
abuse, antidepressants, antipsychotics, and anxiolytics will be discussed.
Outcomes:
Knowledge of the mechanisms of action of drugs, including illicit drugs
and drugs used to treat psychiatric disorders
PSYC 381   Advanced Statistical Analysis-Computer:Social Science   (3
Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 304 or SOCL 301   
Expanded treatment of topics covered in PSYC 304 with emphasis on
using standard computer analysis packages (SPSS).
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate the ability to discuss theoretical assumptions
of various statistical techniques, choose the appropriate statistical test
in a variety of situations, use SPSS to enter data and perform a statistical
analysis, and interpret the results of statistical analysesPSYC 382   Behavorial and Cognitive Neuroscience   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  For BIOL-BS, BIOL-MINR, and BIOE-BS students: BIOL 102
and NEUR 101   
For all others: NEUR 101. Overview of topics and methodologies used in
behavioral and cognitive neuroscience including: attention, learning and
memory, language, reasoning, decision making, intelligence, emotions,
social cognition, and consciousness. BIOL 284 is cross-listed with
PSYC 382.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Course equivalencies:  X-PSYC 382/BIOL 284   
Outcomes:
Students will understand theories regarding brain mechanisms,
underlying mental events and the technologies used for studying these
mechanisms
PSYC 383   Methods in Computational Neuroscience   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  NEUR 101; (MATH 131 or MATH 161); and (COMP 150,
COMP 170, COMP 180, or DSCI 101) This course introduces the methods
necessary to work with computational models of neural processing in the
brain   
These methods include differential equations for neuroscience, Simulink
programming, linear algebra for neural networks, MATLAB coding, and
probability theory for neuroscience. For each method, classes will include
lectures, and computer exercises or illustrations.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Course equivalencies:  X - COMP 386/PSYC 383   
Outcomes:
Appreciation of the mathematical and computational techniques used to
understand the brain, specially differential equations to model neurons,
linear algebra used for neural networks, and probability theory capturing
brain performance
PSYC 384   Computational Modeling of the Brain   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 383/COMP 386 or instructor permission This course
uses a mix of lectures and computer labs to introduce computational
models of the neural processing in the brain   
These models capture single neurons and synapses, biological neural
networks, and high-level computational theory. Each class will cover the
models with lectures and computer labs, the latter using MATLAB and
Simulink.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Course equivalencies:  X - COMP 389/PSYC 384   
Outcomes:
Appreciation that brain function cannot be understood without proper
mathematical and computational frameworks, and ability to apply these
frameworks adeptly in the various domains of neuroscience from neurons
to cognition
PSYC 385   Practicum in Peace Activism   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students will learn how to recognize and navigate the psychological
pitfalls that accompany work as a peace activist. Topics include building
programs, recruiting volunteers, managing media messages, avoiding
burnout, handling conflict within organizations, and securing funding for
peace activities. Psychological constructs and theories such as group
dynamics, perceived control, learned helplessness, attitude change, and
altruism will be used to increase understanding of processes related to
peace activism.
Course equivalencies:  PSYC385/PAX385   

--- Page 618 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 649
PSYC 386   Psychology Seminar: Selected Topics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 101   
An upper-level, intensive seminar on selected aspects of psychology.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of major theories, research
methodologies, and empirical knowledge in the selected topic
PSYC 387   Seminar in Behavorial and Cognitive Neurosciences   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  NEUR 101 (formerly PSYC/BIOL 202); PSYC 382/BIOL 284,
limited to NRCB-BS seniors   
Lecture/discussions will focus on issues central to behavioral
neuroscience, emphasizing human and animal mental processes and
neural information processing mechanisms. Students will read primary
research papers and practice analytical skills in class discussion and
presentations. Presentations and exams will promote critical thinking
and a general understanding of current issues in behavioral and cognitive
neurosciences.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Outcomes:
Students will become familiar with principles of cognitive and behavioral
approaches to the study of the neural bases of behavior; Students will
also learn how to critically read primary research papers and present
these papers to the class
PSYC 388   Laboratory in Neuroscience I   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  NEUR 101, BIOL 251; and students must be either
a Molecular/Cellular Neuroscience Major, a Cognitive/Behavioral
Neuroscience major, or a Neuroscience Minor   
Students will be trained in various anatomical, physiological, behavioral,
and neurobiological modeling techniques used to study the nervous
system and the brain in the laboratory. This course is cross-listed as
NEUR 301 & PSYC 388.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
Course equivalencies:  X-NEUR301/PSYC388/BIOL373   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of several research designs and
methodologies of use in neuroscience research and will gain experience
with basic neuroscience laboratory techniques
PSYC 390   Internship in Psychology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 304 and approval via an internship application due on
the 5th Friday of the previous semester   
Capstone service-learning experience for psychology majors, involving
application and development of psychological knowledge and skills
through an internship (100 hours) in a human service organization or
applied research setting, combined with regular class meetings, reading
and writing assignments. Students arrange placements and complete a
project on site. Application details may be found here: https://luc.edu/
psychology/undergraduate/internshipinpsychology. Practical, pre-
professional job skills, critical analysis and connection between theory
and practice, on topics of: human service agency operation; effective
working relationships; professional communication; cultural competence;
values and ethics.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   PSYC 397   Independent Research   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 306 and approval of internship coordinator   
Limited to psychology majors with senior standing. Capstone opportunity
to conduct research under the guidance of a psychology faculty member.
Only one of PSYC 397 and 399 may count toward the psychology major.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Neuroscience   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will gain experience in all aspects of psychological research,
including literature review, formulating hypotheses, designing
and conducting research, analyzing data and interpreting results,
communicating the results of research in written reports
PSYC 399   Special Studies in Psychology   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  permission of instructor and department   
Opportunity for individual reading or research in a specialized area not
otherwise covered by the Department's course offerings. Only one of
PSYC 397 and 399 may count toward the psychology major.
Outcomes:
Students will gain experience (eg, integrating research results from
various sources, conducting research) working directly with a faculty
member on a current topic in psychology
Honors in Psychology
The Psychology Honors Program is a program for outstanding students
in which each student spends a minimum of two semesters working
on a research project with a Psychology professor. The end result of
that collaboration is an honors thesis, an activity in which the student
completes an individual research project under the guidance of his/her
professor.
In the ﬁrst semester, the student registers for PSYC 369 Psychology
Honors Readings .  In this semester, the student does background reading
in his/her subject of interest, meets periodically with his/her professor,
and by the end of the semester has collaboratively designed an original
research project with the professor and obtained IRB approval for the
project.
In the second semester, the student registers for PSYC 370 Psychology
Honors Research .  In this semester, the student carries out the research
project, collecting and analyzing data, writing up the results, submitting
an honors thesis, and presenting the results of their project at a poster
session at the end of the semester. On occasion, an honors theses
has been presented at a professional meeting and/or published in a
professional journal. All of these activities are completed with close
guidance from and in collaboration with the student's thesis director.
Advantages
Graduate schools and potential employers look very favorably at research
experience, particularly if that research experience is of such merit
that it leads to a professional presentation or publication. In addition,
students who complete the honors thesis are presented at the annual
department awards ceremony. Further, it is indicated on the students'
transcripts that they have been awarded Psychology Honors. Perhaps
most importantly, students get to pull together much of what they have
learned as a Psychology major in an integrative, capstone experience. In
this experience, the student moves into a research colleague relationship
with an experienced researcher and gets a real taste of what it is to
be a research psychologist.  This course sequence also satisﬁes the
university's engaged learning requirement.

--- Page 619 ---
650  Psychology (BS)
Requirements
To receive the psychology honors award, students must fulﬁll three
requirements. Honors students must:
•Maintain a 3.5 cumulative GPA
•Receive grades of "B" or better in PSYC 369 Psychology Honors
Readings  / PSYC 370 Psychology Honors Research
•Complete 13 Psychology courses, including PSYC 369 Psychology
Honors Readings  / PSYC 370 Psychology Honors Research
•Submit an Honors Thesis
Interdisciplinary Honors Program
You do not have to be in the University's Interdisciplinary Honors
Program  (https://www.luc.edu/honors/ ) to participate in the psychology
honors program, and if you are in the Interdisciplinary Honors Program
(https://www.luc.edu/honors/ ), you are not required to participate in the
psychology honors program.
Eligibility
To be eligible for the Psychology Honors Program, you must:
•Be a declared Psychology major (or co-major)
•Have an overall GPA of 3.5 or better
•Have taken the following Psychology courses (or their equivalents
if you are a transfer student): Identify a faculty member in the
department who agrees to supervise your honors work (the honors
director can help you identify such a person)
•PSYC 101 General Psychology
•PSYC 304 Statistics
•PSYC 306 Research Methods in Psychology
•One Psychology laboratory course (recommended, but not
mandatory)
•Formally apply for acceptance in the Psychology Honors Program
•Have at least two more semesters of course work to complete at
Loyola before graduation
Application Procedures
The application process is simple. Just submit a letter indicating your
interest in applying along with a copy of your transcript to: 
  
Dr. Jeffrey Huntsinger  
jhuntsinger@luc.edu  
Honors Director 
Psychology Department 
  
In the letter, indicate which faculty member has agreed to direct
your honors thesis. If you don't know who to approach to be your
thesis director, please consult the faculty research proﬁles  (https://
www.luc.edu/psychology/people/facultyandstaffdirectory/ ) or
description of research labs  (https://www.luc.edu/psychology/research/
researchlaboratories/ ).
Application during your junior year is strongly preferred. This way,
students will start the honors thesis during Spring Semester of their
junior year, and complete the honors thesis by the end of of their senior
year. This gives the student more time to get their research reviewed by
the Loyola Institutional Review Board (which must approve research with
human participants.)Contact Us
For more information about the psychology honors program, please
contact Dr. Jeff Huntsinger, Honors Director, at jhuntsinger@luc.edu
Psychology (BS)
Loyola offers the Bachelor of Science in Psychology which provides
students with a broad-based introduction to the science of psychology
as well as opportunities to learn how psychology is applied to solving
individual and social problems.  Students may also want to consider
pairing the Psychology BS with the Neuroscience major to focus on the
biological aspects of psychology or the 5-year BSW/MSW program in
Social Work if they are interested in a career in Mental Health Therapy.
Related Programs
Minor
•Psychology Minor  (p. 653)
Combined
•Psychology/Applied Social Psychology (BS/MA)  (p. 1324 )
•Psychology/International Affairs (BS/MA)  (p. 1327 )
Curriculum
A total of 14 psychology courses plus two ancillary quantitative courses
are required. Psychology Honors requires 15 courses including PSYC 369
/ PSYC 370 , plus two ancillary quantitative courses.
Code Title Hours
Required Psychology CoursesPSYC 101General Psychology3
PSYC 201 Psychology Advising and Career Development 1PSYC 304Statistics3
PSYC 306 Research Methods in Psychology 3Diversity and Inclusion Requirement Course3
Choose one of the following:PSYC 235Psychology of Human SexualityPSYC 237 Cross-Cultural PsychologyPSYC 238Gender & Sex Differences & SimilaritiesPSYC 239 Understanding Bias and InclusivityPSYC 360Understanding PrejudicePSYC 374 Community PsychologyBiological Pillar3
PSYC 240 Psychology-Biology of Perception
or NEUR 101 Introduction to NeuroscienceCognitive Pillar3
Choose one of the following:PSYC 250Cognitive PsychologyPSYC 251 Learning and MemoryPSYC 307Psychology of LanguagePSYC 382 Behavorial and Cognitive NeuroscienceDevelopmental Pillar3
PSYC 273 Developmental PsychologyPSYC 274Lifespan DevelopmentMental Health Pillar 3

--- Page 620 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 651PSYC 331Psychopathologyor PSYC 346Psychopathology of Childhood
Social Pillar 3PSYC 275Social PsychologyAdvanced Lab 1Choose one of the following:PSYC 311 Lab in PsychobiologyPSYC 312Lab in Cognitive NeurosciencePSYC 313 Lab in Behavioral NeurosciencePSYC 314Lab in Experimental Psychology: CognitionPSYC 315 Lab in Tests & MeasurementsPSYC 316Lab in Experimental Psychology: Sense &
PerceptionPSYC 318 Lab in Developmental PsychologyPSYC 321Laboratory-Social PsychologyPSYC 327 Lab on Body ImageTwo (2) Electives  (p. 651)6
Select one of the following: 3PSYC 370Psychology Honors Research (Capstone)2nd Advanced Lab CoursePSYC 369Psychology Honors Readings (Honors only)3
Ancillary Quantitative RequirementSelect two of the following:6-8
COMP 125 Visual Information ProcessingCOMP 150Introduction to ComputingCOMP 170 Introduction to Object-Oriented ProgrammingCOMP 180Computing and Data Analysis for the SciencesDSCI 101 Fundamentals of Modern Data Science with RMATH 108Real World Modeling with MathematicsMATH 117 Precalculus IMATH 118Precalculus IIMATH 131 Applied Calculus IMATH 132Applied Calculus IIMATH 161 Calculus IMATH 162Calculus IIMATH 215 Object-Oriented Programming with MathematicsSTAT 103Fundamentals of StatisticsTotal Hours47
List of Elective Courses
Code Title Hours
PSYC 235 Psychology of Human Sexuality 3PSYC 274Lifespan Development3
PSYC 276 Philosophy of Mind 3PSYC 280Psychology of Judgment and Decision-Making3
PSYC 332 Affective Neuroscience 3PSYC 340Psychology of Women3
PSYC 348 Psychology of Adolescence 3PSYC 350Developmental Cognitive Neuroscience3
PSYC 352 Neuropsychology 3PSYC 355Neuroethics3
PSYC 362 Industrial/Organizational Psychology 3PSYC 368Counseling3
PSYC 371 Psychology of Political Behavior 3PSYC 372Psychology & Law3
PSYC 373 Health Psychology 3PSYC 375Psychology of Addiction3
PSYC 376 Psychology of Religion 3PSYC 377Psychology of Music3
PSYC 378 Drugs and Behavior 3PSYC 386Psychology Seminar: Selected Topics3
PSYC 383 /
COMP 386Methods in Computational Neuroscience 3PSYC 384 /
COMP 389Computational Modeling of the Brain3
PSYC 387 Seminar in Behavorial and Cognitive
Neurosciences3PSYC 399Special Studies in Psychology1-3
Independent Study Opportunities
Loyola's psychology department offers countless opportunities for
undergraduates to participate in research under the supervision of
faculty members—an experience that is highly valued by employers
and graduate schools. More information on Research in the
department can be found under the Research Tab of the Psychology
Department Website. Students can earn course credit for this
research experience through independent studies and research
courses,  PSYC 397  and  PSYC 399 . Qualiﬁed students may also plan and
conduct psychological research by enrolling in the two-course honors
sequence ( PSYC 369  and  PSYC 370 ). PSYC 397  and  PSYC 370  count
towards the Loyola's engaged learning requirement, while  PSYC 399  does
not. More information on Independent Study courses in Psychology
are available on the Independent Research webpage  or by clicking the
hyperlinks for the individual courses above.
Internship in Psychology
PSYC 390  is an intensive, work/academic experience that combines 100
hours (minimum) of supervised work at a psychology-related job site,
arranged by the student prior to the start of the semester.  PSYC 390  class
meetings include class discussions and activities, reading and writing
assignments, and an independent project. This is a unique and time-
intensive opportunity that allows students to learn how psychology is
applied in real-world settings. The course is open to psychology juniors
and seniors. Students interested in the program should learn more by
visiting the  Internship in Psychology Webpage  (https://www.luc.edu/
psychology/undergraduate/internshipinpsychology/ ).  Questions about
the program should be addressed to the internship coordinator ( psyc-
internship@luc.edu ). Admission to the internship course is by application
only. Applications are due midway through the  semester before  the internship
is to be taken.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
Recommended Sequence of Psychology Courses
Students should take PSYC 101 General Psychology  and PSYC 201
Psychology Advising and Career Development  their ﬁrst year. Students
should then take their Knowledge Pillar courses. It is recommended that
students complete at least one of their Ancillary Quantitative Courses
prior to beginning the PSYC 304 Statistics -PSYC 306 Research Methods
in Psychology  sequence. Note that PSYC 304 Statistics  is a prerequisite
for PSYC 306 Research Methods in Psychology . No other statistics
course (including STAT 103 Fundamentals of Statistics ) or a statistics

--- Page 621 ---
652  Psychology (BS)
course from another Loyola department can serve as a prerequisite
for PSYC 306 if you are a Psychology Major. Students may not take
PSYC 304 Statistics  and PSYC 306 Research Methods in Psychology  at
the same time. Electives may be any 200 or 300 level psychology courses
or NEUR 101 Introduction to Neuroscience . PSYC 306 Research Methods
in Psychology  and their speciﬁed Knowledge Pillar courses serve as
prerequisites for advanced lab courses.
Recommended Sequence of Math Courses
Students should discuss the Ancillary Quantitative Requirement with
their Psychology Faculty advisor as early as possible after declaring
the major. It is expected that students will have completed at least
one, and preferably both courses before  beginning the PSYC 304
Statistics -PSYC 306 Research Methods in Psychology  sequence. Thus,
students should plan to take these courses during their ﬁrst two years.
Assuming a strong background in math, a computer science course is
strongly recommended to prepare students for future academic and non-
academic careers.
Advising for Psychology Majors
Students must take  PSYC 101 General Psychology , PSYC 201 Psychology
Advising and Career Development , PSYC 304 Statistics , PSYC 306
Research Methods in Psychology , one course for the Diversity and
Inclusion Requirement, one course for each of the ﬁve Knowledge Pillars,
one Advanced Lab Course, and one capstone course (or a 2nd Advanced
Lab Course). Students graduating with Psychology Honors must
take  PSYC 369 Psychology Honors Readings  / PSYC 370 Psychology
Honors Research  as their Capstone. Remaining courses may be any
psychology course except  PSYC 100 Psychological Perspectives on the
Experience of Globalization .
When planning your course schedule with your Psychology
Department Faculty Advisor, please consult the Psychology  Major
Checklist  (https://www.luc.edu/psychology/undergraduate/
psychologymajorafterjuly2021/ ). The  Psychology Course
Matrix  (https://www.luc.edu/psychology/undergraduate/
psychologymajorafterjuly2021/ ) may also be of use in planning
your course schedule.  You can also view  Psychology Course
Descriptions  (p. 2863 ) or look at many past  Psychology Course
Syllabi  (https://www.luc.edu/psychology/undergraduate/
psychologymajorafterjuly2021/ ).
Psychology Majors should complete  PSYC 201 Psychology Advising
and Career Development  as soon after taking  PSYC 101 General
Psychology  as possible. During that course you will receive a Psychology
Faculty Advisor, but if you want to be assigned an advisor before you take
the class  please ﬁll out this form  (https://docs.google.com/forms/d/
e/1FAIpQLSf5acxsvrb0-QmprGP6r075_pb4OgXyQOBiloV3wLqL4szsMg/
viewform/ ). It is your responsibility to contact your advisor. Before
meeting with your Advisor please take time to review the requirements
found on this page and the  Psychology Career Finder  (https://
www.luc.edu/psychology/resources/psychologycareerﬁnder/ ). More
information on student advising at Loyola maybe found by visiting
the Advising Webpage  (https://www.luc.edu/psychology/undergraduate/
advising/ ).
Co-Majoring
Psychology majors are to abide by Academic Council's double dipping
policy  (p. 55) which instructs that not more than three courses offered
by one department may count towards two different majors. There are
two notable exceptions for the Psychology Department:•Co-Majoring in Neuroscience.  Neuroscience Majors/Minors may
count any psychology courses they take that count towards the
Neuroscience Major/Minor towards both majors.
•Co-Majoring in Social Work.  Social Work Majors may count PSYC 101
General Psychology  and PSYC 304 Statistics  and any other three
PSYC classes approved by the School of Social Work towards both
the Psychology and Social Work Majors.
Core Course Exemptions for Psychology Majors
Psychology majors are exempt from the “Societal and Cultural
Knowledge” and “Quantitative Literacy” areas of the core. Additional
information about the Core can be found here  (p. 1406 ).
Transferring Courses
Three courses of the major (or the minor) can be fulﬁlled with courses
transferred into Loyola. Please consult with your CAS Advisor to
ensure that you have received transfer credit for courses taken at other
universities.
Honors in Psychology
Students able to maintain a cumulative 3.5 GPA and interested in
psychology independent research, should discuss the possibility of
participating in the Honors in Psychology program with their Psychology
Faculty Advisor or ideally their psychology research mentor. For more
information on the program please visit the  Honors in Psychology
Webpage  (https://www.luc.edu/psychology/undergraduate/ ). Questions
about the program should be addressed to the program director,  Dr. Jeff
Huntsinger  (jhuntsinger@luc.edu ).
Answers to additional questions about the major may be found on the
Department Website  (https://www.luc.edu/psychology/ ) or by visiting the
Frequently Asked Questions Webpage  (https://www.luc.edu/psychology/
undergraduate/faq/ ).
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Acquire a broad understanding of fundamental psychological
principles and concepts, including the biological, cognitive,
developmental, mental health, and social pillars of psychological
science.
•Learn to use scientiﬁc knowledge to make reasoned and ethical
judgments promoting the health and well-being of the individual,
community, and society.

--- Page 622 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 653
•Develop the ability to design, conduct, and communicate the results,
both orally and in writing, of basic psychological research.
•Develop the ability to think quantitatively about psychological
concepts, and to quantitatively analyze experimental results.
•Participate in scientiﬁc inquiry using the methodologies and tools of
psychological science in laboratory and ﬁeld settings.
•Expose students to theoretical approaches that deal with privilege,
oppression, and social justice and encourage appreciation of
differences in psychology across cultures.
Psychology Minor
Loyola offers the Minor in Psychology which provides students with
an opportunity to develop psychology course coverage related to their
speciﬁc career interests.
Students may also want to consider pairing the Psychology Minor with
the Neuroscience major to focus on the biological aspects of psychology
or the 5-year BSW/MSW program in Social Work if they are interested in a
career in Mental Health Therapy.
Related Programs
Major
•Psychology (BS)  (p. 650)
Minor
•Sociology Minor  (p. 668)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesPSYC 101General Psychology3Five 200+ level Psychology courses  1,215Total Hours18
1Except PSYC 201 Psychology Advising and Career Development
2NEUR 101 Introduction to Neuroscience  may be taken.
Mathematics and Statistics Prerequisites
While there is no explicit math requirement for the Psychology Minor,
it is expected that students will have a solid background in basic
math (including algebra and preferably probability) prior to taking
PSYC 304 Statistics . If the student has tested out of math they may
enroll in PSYC 304 Statistics  immediately after taking PSYC 101 General
Psychology .
Transferring Courses from other Institutions
Three courses of the minor can be fulﬁlled with courses transferred into
Loyola. Please consult with your CAS Advisor to ensure that you have
received transfer credit for courses taken at other universities.
Independent Study Opportunities
Loyola's psychology department offers countless opportunities for
undergraduates to participate in research under the supervision of faculty
members—an experience that is highly valued by employers and graduate
schools. More information on Research in the department can be found
under the Research Tab of the Psychology Department Website. Students
can earn course credit for this research experience through independentstudies and research courses, PSYC 397 Independent Research  and
PSYC 399 Special Studies in Psychology . Qualiﬁed students may also
plan and conduct psychological research by enrolling in the two-course
honors sequence ( PSYC 369 Psychology Honors Readings  and PSYC 370
Psychology Honors Research ). PSYC 397 Independent Research  and
PSYC 370 Psychology Honors Research  count towards the Loyola's
engaged learning requirement, while PSYC 399 Special Studies in
Psychology  does not. More information on Independent Study courses in
Psychology are available on the Independent Research webpage under
the Undergraduate Tab on the department website or by clicking the
hyperlinks for the individual courses above.
Internship in Psychology
PSYC 390 Internship in Psychology  is an intensive, work/academic
experience that combines 100 hours (minimum) of supervised work at a
psychology-related job site, arranged by the student prior to the start of
the semester. PSYC 390 Internship in Psychology  class meetings include
class discussions and activities, reading and writing assignments, and
an independent project. This is a unique and time-intensive opportunity
that allows students to learn how psychology is applied in real-world
settings. The course is open to psychology juniors and seniors. Students
interested in the program should learn more by visiting the Internship
in Psychology Webpage found under the Undergraduate Tab on the
department website. Questions about the program should be addressed
to the internship coordinator ( psyc-internship@luc.edu ). Admission to the
internship course is by application only. Applications are due midway through
the semester before  the internship is to be taken.
Double-Dipping Policy
Psychology minors are to abide by Academic Council's double dipping
policy which instructs that 8 credit hours must be unique to a minor.
Learning Outcomes
•Acquire a broad understanding of fundamental psychological
principles and concepts, including the biological, cognitive,
developmental, mental health, and social pillars of psychological
science.
•Learn to use scientiﬁc knowledge to make reasoned and ethical
judgments promoting the health and well-being of the individual,
community, and society.
•Develop the ability to design, conduct, and communicate the results,
both orally and in writing, of basic psychological research.
•Develop the ability to think quantitatively about psychological
concepts, and to quantitatively analyze experimental results.
•Participate in scientiﬁc inquiry using the methodologies and tools of
psychological science in laboratory and ﬁeld settings.
•Expose students to theoretical approaches that deal with privilege,
oppression, and social justice and encourage appreciation of
differences in psychology across cultures.
Psychology of Crime and Justice
Interdisciplinary Program
This interdisciplinary program allows students to focus on the
classes that are most relevant to the ﬁeld of psychology and law.  The
constellation of classes will deepen and complement their chosen
professional practice with justice-involved persons or their wider
professional careers in the ﬁelds of cybersecurity, mental health, social
work, forensic science, law, and others.

--- Page 623 ---
654  Psychology of Crime and Justice Minor
Undergraduate Programs
•Psychology of Crime and Justice Minor  (p. 654)
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Psychology of Crime and Justice (PSCJ)
PSCJ 399   Independent Study   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides students with the opportunity to work under the
direction of a faculty member on a particular area of interest that is not
part of the Psychology of Crime and Justice minor's usual curriculum.
Program permission required.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Psychology of Crime and Justice   
Outcomes:
Gain supervised research experience in a speciﬁc area of psychology and
law
Psychology of Crime and Justice
Minor
This interdisciplinary minor allows students to focus on the classes that
are most relevant to the ﬁeld of psychology and law.  The constellation of
classes will deepen and complement their chosen professional practice
with justice-involved persons or their wider professional careers in the
ﬁelds of cybersecurity, mental health, social work, forensic science, law,
and others. The minor provides foundational knowledge for professional
practice and advanced graduate or professional degrees where the ﬁelds
of psychology and criminal justice intersect.
Related Programs
Major
•Criminal Justice and Criminology (BS)  (p. 375)
•Psychology (BS)  (p. 650)
Minor
•Criminal Justice and Criminology Minor  (p. 376)
•Psychology Minor  (p. 653)
•Sociolegal Studies Minor  (p. 656)
Curriculum
The minor requires the completion of 18 credit hours.  Three classes may
double dip and count toward a major or another interdisciplinary minor.
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesSelect one of the following:3
PSYC 331 PsychopathologyPSYC 372 /
CJC 377Psychology & LawSelect one of the following: 3CJC 345Social Justice and CrimeCJC 346 Mental Illness and CrimeAdditional Requirements12
Additional requirements are determined by majors.Psychology MajorsCJC 101 Criminal Justice in a Global ContextElectives  (p. 654) (Choose 3 from the approved list below)  1Criminal Justice & Criminology MajorsPSYC 101General PsychologyElectives  (p. 654) (Choose 3 from the approved list below)  2All Other MajorsCJC 101 Criminal Justice in a Global ContextPSYC 101General PsychologyElectives  (p. 654) (Choose 2 from the approved list below)Total Hours18
1Psychology Majors must select two CJC electives and one PSYC
elective.  It is recommended that if  PSCJ 399  is taken as an elective, it
should substitute for the PSYC elective.
2CJC Majors must select two PSYC electives and one CJC elective. 
It is recommended that if  PSCJ 399  is taken as an elective, it should
substitute for the CJC elective.
Internship
We strongly recommend that psychology and criminal justice and
criminology majors completing the minor do an internship, ﬁeld work
or research project focused on the psychology of crime and justice
by participating in one of the capstone experiences which include a
practicum experience:
•CJC 390  Capstone Experience Internship
•PSYC 390  Internship in
Psychology  (prerequisites:  PSYC 304  Statistics  and  PSYC 306  Research
Methods in Psychology )
These courses will count toward the psychology or criminal justice and
criminology major, but not the minor in the psychology of crime and
justice.
Students may obtain credit for engaged learning and participate in
Psychology and Law research through  PSCJ 399  Independent Study ,
which counts as an approved elective in the minor.
Approved Electives for all PSCJ Minors
Code Title Hours
CJC 201 Theories of Criminal Behavior 3CJC 202Criminal Courts3
CJC 204 Corrections 3CJC 302Juvenile Justice System3
CJC 322 Criminal Law 3CJC 345Social Justice and Crime3
CJC 346 Mental Illness and Crime 3CJC 360Substance Use and Crime3
CJC 371 Victimology 3CJC 372Race, Ethnicity, and Criminal Justice3
CJC 373 Intimate Partner Violence 3CJC 374Miscarriages of Justice3
CJC 376 Childhood Exposure to Violence 3CJC 379Leaving Crime Behind3
PSCJ 399 Independent Study 3

--- Page 624 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 655PSYC 239Understanding Bias and Inclusivity3
PSYC 275 Social Psychology 3PSYC 331Psychopathology3
PSYC 332 Affective Neuroscience 3PSYC 338Psychology of Personality3
PSYC 346 Psychopathology of Childhood 3PSYC 348Psychology of Adolescence3
PSYC 360 Understanding Prejudice 3PSYC 368Counseling3
PSYC 375 Psychology of Addiction 3PSYC 378Drugs and Behavior3
Double Dipping Rule 
Three (3) courses can count toward credit for another minor or major;
thus, three (3) unique classes are required.
Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of the minor in the Psychology of Crime and Justice,
students will:
•Exhibit foundational knowledge in the ﬁeld of psychology and law.
•Recognize how empirically-based research has improved the legal
system, and has future applications to improve the legal system.
•Understand how professionals in the legal system and treatment
ﬁelds interact, assist, and hinder persons who belong to marginalized
and vulnerable groups.
•Appreciate the possible graduate school options and career pathways
at the intersection of the psychology and law ﬁeld.
Race & Ethnicity Interdisciplinary
Program
Race and ethnicity are meaningful characteristics created through social
processes. Individuals and institutions use race and ethnicity to establish
cultural and material hierarchies of power and privilege in a society. It
is necessary to continue studying race and ethnicity, especially in the
United States, a country whose foundations are built upon ethnic and
racial issues that continue to persist.
Loyola's minor in Race and Ethnicity was developed to provide an
interdisciplinary theoretical background on relevant ethnic and racial
issues and train students to develop analytic tools for studying ethnic
and racial issues.
Undergraduate Programs
•Race & Ethnicity Interdisciplinary Minor  (p. 655)
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Race & Ethnicity Interdisciplinary
Minor
The interdisciplinary minor in race and ethnicity will provide an
interdisciplinary theoretical background on relevant ethnic and racialissues and train students to develop analytic tools for studying ethnic
and racial issues.  The minor provides opportunities for students to
develop nuanced understandings of race and ethnicity in cross-cultural
and comparative perspectives.
Related Programs
Minor
•Asian Studies Minor  (p. 277)
•Middle East and Islamic World Studies Minor  (p. 541)
Curriculum
Students enrolling in the minor will be required to complete 18 credit
hours.
Code Title Hours
Introduction to Race and EthnicityOne Required CourseSOCL 122 Race and Ethnic Relations 3Theories of Race and EthnicityChoose one at least one of the following 3ANTH 105Human Biocultural DiversityANTH 304 Anthropological TheoryCJC 372Race, Ethnicity, and Criminal JusticeHIST 374 Black PoliticsHIST 378Latina/o HistoryHIST 380 Introduction to African-American HistoryPHIL 389Contemporary Issues (Critical Philosophy of Race)PLSC 218 African-American PoliticsPLSC 300AContemporary Political Issues: American PoliticsSOCL 228 Sociology of the African-American ExperienceRacial and Ethnic Inequality and RacismChoose at least one of the following 3ANTH 203Violence, Social Suffering, and JusticeANTH 332 Language, Race, and InequalityCJC 345Social Justice and CrimeHIST 359F Genocides in the Modern WorldHIST 360ASlavery and Abolition: Then & NowPLSC 316 Politics of GenocidePLSC 390Urban PoliticsPSYC 239 Understanding Bias and InclusivityPSYC 360Understanding PrejudiceSOCL 250 Inequality in SocietySOCL 252Global InequalitiesTHEO 203 Social Justice and InjusticeHistorical, Cultural, and Contemporary Perspectives on Racial and
Ethnic IssuesChoose at least one of the following 3ANTH 208Language and IdentityANTH 211 Peoples of Latin AmericaANTH 213Culture in AfricaANTH 216 Cultures of MigrationANTH 217Mexican Culture & HeritageANTH 242 Mesoamerican Archaeology and Survivance

--- Page 625 ---
656  Sociolegal Studies Interdisciplinary ProgramCJC 375Punishment and SocietyENGL 282B African-American Literature 1700-1900ENGL 284Asian American LiteratureENGL 313 Border LiteraturesHIST 389BTopic: Gender, Race, & Class in US HistoryPLSC 334 Urban Policies and ProblemsSOCL 234City, Suburbs & BeyondSOCL 245 Sociology of EducationSOCL 280Topics in Contemporary Sociology (U.S.
Immigration)Additional ElectiveChoose one additional elective course from either the Theories of
Race and Ethnicity; Racial and Ethnic Inequality and Racism; or
Historical, Cultural, and Contemporary Perspectives on Racial and
Ethnic Issues areas3
Race and Ethnicity CapstoneOne required courseSOCL 380Internship3-6Total Hours18
Additional Requirements
As an interdisciplinary minor, students are required to count no more than
two of the six courses from the same major/discipline towards the minor,
with the exception of the capstone class.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Term 1SOCL 122Race and Ethnic Relations3 Hours3
Term 2
Theories of Race and Ethnicity Elective 3Racial and Ethnic Inequality and Racism Elective3 Hours6
Year 2
Term 3Historical, Cultural, and Contemporary Perspectives on Racial and
Ethnic Issues Elective3Additional Elective Course3 Hours6
Term 4SOCL 380Internship3-6 Hours3 Total Hours18Learning Outcomes
At the conclusion of their studies, students minoring in this minor will be
able to:
•Understand theories of race and ethnicity;
•Evaluate racial and ethnic inequality; and
•Apply a race and ethnicity lens to the analysis of historical, cultural,
and contemporary issues.
Sociolegal Studies Interdisciplinary
Program
The Sociolegal Studies minor provides an introduction to the
relationships between law and other human activity and serves as a
broad liberal education in the humanities and social sciences. It is an
opportunity for students within a liberal arts curriculum to engage in a
broad critical understanding of the nature and function of law from an
interdisciplinary perspective. Students will learn basic legal concepts
and be able to apply those concepts to legal phenomena; understand
the nature and function of law, including legal theory, institutions, and
analysis; understand the unique nature of legal institutions and practices
from a variety of interdisciplinary perspectives; and acquire a deeper
understanding of the different types of law, how law is shaped, how
people think about law, and the role of law in society.
Undergraduate Programs
•Sociolegal Studies Minor  (p. 656)
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Sociolegal Studies (SLGL)
SLGL 200   Introduction to Sociolegal Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course will introduce students to several complementary
perspectives from the interdisciplinary "Law and Society" movement: the
sociology of law; the psychology of justice; the anthropology of disputing;
the economics of rulemaking; and the institutional politics of courts and
legislatures.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Sociolegal Studies   
Outcomes:
Compare & critique different social science theories of law; understand
the role of law in society and the intersection of law, politics, economics,
and culture
SLGL 399   Independent Study   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides students with the opportunity to work under the
direction of a faculty member on a particular area of interest that is
not part of the Sociolegal Studies minor's usual curriculum. Program
permission required. Students will gain an understanding of a speciﬁc
area of sociolegal studies through the close reading of selected texts or
through directed research.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Sociolegal Studies   
Sociolegal Studies Minor
The Sociolegal Studies minor provides an introduction to the
relationships between law and other human activity and serves as a

--- Page 626 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 657
broad liberal education in the humanities and social sciences. It is an
opportunity for students within a liberal arts curriculum to engage in a
broad critical understanding of the nature and function of law from an
interdisciplinary perspective. Students will learn basic legal concepts
and be able to apply those concepts to legal phenomena; understand
the nature and function of law, including legal theory, institutions, and
analysis; understand the unique nature of legal institutions and practices
from a variety of interdisciplinary perspectives; and acquire a deeper
understanding of the different types of law, how law is shaped, how
people think about law, and the role of law in society.
Related Programs
Major
•Criminal Justice and Criminology (BS)  (p. 375)
Minor
•Computer Crime and Forensics Minor  (p. 374)
•Criminal Justice and Criminology Minor  (p. 376)
•Psychology of Crime and Justice Minor  (p. 654)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Required SLGL CourseSLGL 200Introduction to Sociolegal Studies3
Required Electives 15Select ﬁve from the following:ANTH 305 Violence and CultureANTH 306Anthropology and Human RightsANTH 314 Applied AnthropologyANTH 321Human Rights in Latin AmericaCJC 202 Criminal CourtsCJC 322Criminal LawCJC 323 Criminal ProcedureCJC 345Social Justice and CrimeCJC 372 Race, Ethnicity, and Criminal JusticeCJC 377Psychology and LawCLST 361 Roman Political Theory & PracticeCLST 362Roman LawCLST 363 Law & Legislature-Ancient GreeceCOMP 317Social, Legal, and Ethical Issues in ComputingENGL 211 Writing for Pre-Law StudentsHIST 367United States from Great Depression to RecessionHIST 370 American Business, Wealth, and InequalityHIST 373US Law & Public PolicyHIST 373A Crime and PunishmentHIST 382Teaching Race, Class, and GenderPHIL 321 Ethics and SocietyPHIL 323Philosophy of LawPHIL 326 Political PhilosophyPLSC 320Constitutional Law-Due ProcessPLSC 321 Constitutional Law-Powers of GovernmentPLSC 322Constitutional Law-Rights and LibertiesPLSC 353 International LawPLSC 384The Judicial ProcessPLSC 385 Introduction to LawPSYC 372Psychology & LawSLGL 399 Independent StudySOCL 215Law & SocietySOCL 261Social Movements & Social ChangeTotal Hours18
Transfer-Student Residency Requirement
At least 9 credit hours of SLGL-MINR requirements must be completed at
Loyola.
Double Dipping Policy
Observes the CAS Double-Dipping policy with the additional restriction:
Students minoring in Sociolegal Studies (SLGL-MINR) may use only one
course (total) toward the SLGL minor and any other declared majors/
minors.
Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this program, students will:
•Evidence a deeper understanding of the many forms of law, how law
is shaped, how people think about law, the role of law in society, and
the intersection of law and politics
•Compare, apply, and critique different social science and humanities
perspectives on law
•Understand the cultural, political, economic, and social aspects of law
•Employ an interdisciplinary approach to the study of law and society
•Understand the structure and purpose of legal institutions
•Comprehend basic legal concepts and be able to apply those
concepts to legal phenomena
•Develop strong logical and critical thinking skills
Sociology
Welcome to the Department of Sociology at Loyola University Chicago!
(https://www.luc.edu/sociology/index.shtml/ )
Here, our vibrant community--spanning faculty, graduate students,
and undergraduate majors and minors--fosters intellectual growth,
collaboration, and a deep commitment to addressing the pressing
challenges of our society. Rooted in the rich traditions of sociology and
the Jesuit mission of social justice, our department combines rigorous
research, impactful publications, dynamic classroom instruction, and
immersive experiences beyond the classroom. Together, we strive to
make a meaningful difference both within and beyond our university.
What Is Sociology?
Sociology explores the many ways people interact and organize
themselves—within families and nations, cities and suburbs, factories,
schools, churches, and even gangs. Its subject matter is the world
around us. Sociologists at Loyola explore questions such as how play
in public parks can build community life, effective activism to protect
the environment, and the integration of immigrants into American
society. Sociologists tackle complex issues such as the causes of high
infant mortality rates among Black women, the impact of real estate
speculation on the creation of ghettos, the realities of gig economy work,
or the spread of rumors in social networks. This perspective challenges
us to see the world in new ways, uncovering the deeper patterns and
forces shaping everyday life. By introducing sociology as a social science,

--- Page 627 ---
658  Sociology
our department fosters a critical understanding of how individuals
connect through societal structures and how those structures profoundly
influence our lives.
Department History & Overview
Founded in 1914, Loyola University Chicago's Department of Sociology
has a proud legacy of excellence in teaching, research, and community
engagement. Undergraduate students joining our program become
part of a vibrant academic community supported by ﬁfteen full-
time sociologists who are dedicated to both advancing knowledge
and providing personalized mentorship. With small class sizes and
meaningful faculty-student collaborations, our department offers an
enriching learning environment tailored to our students' success.
Our faculty conduct cutting-edge research and teach across a wide range
of sociological subﬁelds, including:
•Urban, Environment, and Community
•Health and Medicine
•Politics, Power, and Social Justice
•Global and Transnational Sociology
•Race, Ethnicity, Gender, and Sexuality
•Religion, Science, and Knowledge
We take pride not only in our research contributions but also in the high-
quality academic and personal experiences we offer to our majors and
minors, preparing them for success in both their studies and their future
endeavors. Students can gain "real world" experience in survey design
with the Cook County Community Survey  (https://cccs.sites.luc.edu/ ),
engage in community-partnered research with our City STAR Lab, or earn
course credit through an internship with an agency here in Chicago or in
their hometown.
Careers in Sociology
A sociology major offers valuable insights into the world while equipping
students with data analysis, communication, and critical thinking
skills that are highly adaptable and sought after in today’s workplace.
Through a Loyola Sociology education, majors and minors develop key
competencies, including:
•Engaging with diverse ideas and perspectives while interacting
thoughtfully and respectfully, even in disagreement.
•Assessing data and evaluating claims with a critical eye.
•Conducting research and forming valid, data-driven conclusions
about the social world.
Our graduates pursue a variety of paths, including advanced degrees
in ﬁelds such as law and medicine. They also secure impactful roles
in government, nonproﬁts, business, marketing, technology, and more.
A sociology degree opens the door to meaningful careers that make a
difference in society.
Undergraduate Programs
•Honors in Sociology or Sociology/Anthropology  (p. 665)
•Sociology (BA)  (p. 665)
•Sociology (BA/MA)  (p. 1361 )
•Sociology/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1364 )
•Sociology Minor  (p. 668)
•Sociology-Anthropology (BA)  (p. 669)Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Sociology (SOCL)
SOCL 100   Urban Field Studies: Changing Chicago   (3 Credit Hours)   
Fieldwork-based course exploring how communities are shaped by social,
economic, and political forces. Particular emphasis is placed on how
grass-roots activism and community-based organizations affect social
change. Taught in cooperation with Loyola's Center for Urban Research
and Learning (CURL), students visit with community leaders, politicians,
advocates religious leaders and others working for positive change in the
city and suburbs.
SOCL 101   Society in a Global Age   (3 Credit Hours)   
This is a foundational course in the social sciences which expl ores
the effect of globalization on everyday life in the United States and
elsewhere, using the basic perspectives and methodologies of sociology.
Knowledge Area:  Foundational Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora   
SOCL 121   Social Problems   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100, PLSC 102, PSYC 100, SOCL 101, WSGS 101, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course is an opportunity to examine major issues facing society. In
addition to analyzing the roots of social problems, the course addresses
social policy concerns and explores solutions.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services, Peace, Justice, and Conflict
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  SOCL121/PAX 121   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to critically examine the impact of a soc ial problem
and its possible solutions, to integrate knowledge gleaned from a variety
of disciplines, to ﬁnd and utilize relevant data and research in deﬁning
issues and solutions, and to view social problems from macro and micro
perspectives as a means of applying workable solutions for the issues
facing society
SOCL 122   Race and Ethnic Relations   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100, PLSC 102, PSYC 100, SOCL 101, WSGS 101, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course examines the development of cultural, society, and self-
understanding by exploring the social construction of race in the United
States. The course explores how social constructions of race affect
interpersonal relations, laws, policies, and practices in various racial and
ethnic communities.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Asian
Studies, Human Services, Italian American Studies, Peace, Justice, and
Conflict Studies, Race and Ethnicity   
Course equivalencies:  X-SOCL122/ASIA122/BWS 122/PAX   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the conditions
which have worsened racial tensions as well as how social movements
have been successful at eradicating racially oppressive laws and working
towards a just society

--- Page 628 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 659
SOCL 123   Mass Media and Popular Culture   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the connections between the media of mass
communication and multiple forms of popular art and culture. Topics
considered include the social, political and cultural organization of mass
communication and its impact on values, expectations, and life styles of
contemporary society.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies, Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  SOCL123/WSGS123/IFMS123   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the social
relationships between mass media and the general population
SOCL 125   Chicago: Urban Metropolis   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100, PLSC 102, PSYC 100, SOCL 101, WSGS 101, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course explores the development of Chicago metropolitan region
from the 1830's to the present day. Students will explore the urban area
not only through texts, but also through ﬁeldwork.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Urban
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  SOCL125/URB125   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the geogr aphy,
history and people of the Chicago metropolitan region
SOCL 127   Social Analysis and Social Action   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course helps students who are volunteering at local congregations
and agencies better understand the communities and issues they will
encounter in Chicago. It emphasizes the analysis of " social solutions" to
social problems as well as personal reflection and action.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  X-SOCL127/PAX127   
Outcomes:
Analyzing and acting on social issues
SOCL 145   Religion & Society   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100, PLSC 102, PSYC 100, SOCL 101, WSGS 101, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course examines how religion and society interact.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, Interreligious and Interfaith
Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of how individual
behavior, organizations, and society as a whole are affected by religious
ideas and institutions, and how religion is itself changed by its encounter
with changing social circumstances
SOCL 171   Sociology of Sex and Gender   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100, PLSC 102, PSYC 100, SOCL 101, WSGS 101, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course explores the social organization of sex and gender.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services, Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-SOCL271/WOST271/WSGS271   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to situate their pre-conceived experiences of the
naturalness of gender in a particular historical and cultural contextSOCL 205   Sociological Thought   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines classical and contemporary sociological theories
and uses them as frameworks for understanding modern society. Such
social theories attempt to explain and understand the world, as well as
inspire further research and theory.
Interdisciplinary Option:  German Studies   
Outcomes:
The class provides students with theoretical foundations for
understanding social organizations as well as the social processes that
transform societies
SOCL 206   Principles of Social Research   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to the basic research methodologies
of sociology. A variety of methods used in sociological analysis and
data generation will be considered. Students learn how to select and
use methodologies appropriate for various research projects. They will
be able to critically evaluate existing research and select appropriate
techniques to undertake original research.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services, Urban Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will learn how social science research is conducted
SOCL 210   Gender and Work   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course looks at the nature of work through the lens of gender. It
considers how male and female labor force participation has changed
over time. It examines the ways working families are transformed when
women combine employment with domestic responsibilities and child
care, or when men's jobs no longer provide a family wage.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-SOCL210/WOST210/WSGS210   
Outcomes:
Students learn how gender has been and remains a fundamental
organizational principle in the workplace and the labor force
SOCL 212   Patterns of Criminal Activity   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students are taught to examine the relevance of criminological theories
to patterns of criminal activity, to efforts to control criminals, and to
prevent crime.
Outcomes:
Students learn how to analyze neighborhoods to identify environments of
increased crime risk and relative safety
SOCL 215   Law & Society   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course trains students to examine the law as a sociological concept
and to look at the relationship between the legal system and society. A
critical concern is whether changes in the legal system reflect societal
change or do changes in the legal system stimulate change in so ciety.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Sociolegal Studies   
Outcomes:
Students learn to recognize the close linkage between the law and social
structure; They also gain experience examining legal texts and decisions
SOCL 216   The Sociology of Violence   (3 Credit Hours)   
The threat of violence is a signiﬁcant concern for individuals in many
societies. In this course, violence will be studied as a social phenomenon.
Topics of particular concern include: family violence, gang violence and
terrorism.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies, Urban
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-SOCL216/PAX 291   
Outcomes:
Students learn to examine the causes of violence from a sociological
perspective: They also learn methods to reduce violence and the harm it
causes

--- Page 629 ---
660  Sociology
SOCL 220   Topics in the Life Cycle   (3 Credit Hours)   
An examination of the stages of the life cycle (childhood, young
adulthood, parenthood, later adulthood, etc) and how such stages are
deﬁned and interpreted by social and institutional forces.
Outcomes:
Students will gain understanding of the role that individual's societies
and institutions play in the deﬁnition of the life cycle and the implications
it has for society
SOCL 221   Sociology and Culture of the Life Course   (3 Credit Hours)   
Life course studies emerged in response to the sociological need to
understand how social change intersects with the aging process. Social
and cultural contexts, individual experience and agency, and historical
time and place are elements in the construction of a life and the social
relationships that make it up.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics, Human Services   
Course equivalencies:  X-ANTH221/SOCL221   
Outcomes:
Students learn sociological concepts and theories relevant to the life
course and how they help us understand local and global changes; Learn
about programs and policies pertinent to an aging society
SOCL 222   Poverty & Welfare in America   (3 Credit Hours)   
In this course, students learn to think critically about the ch aracter,
causes and responses to poverty in American society, using both
historical and contemporary evidence.
Outcomes:
Students will understand the strengths and limitations of American
welfare policy in relation to poverty
SOCL 225   Sociology of Health Care   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the sociology of health care with particular
attention to: social and psychological factors; health care professionals;
inter-personal relations in health care; the organization and use of health
services; and the relationship between aging and health.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Course equivalencies:  X-SOCL225/BIET225   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the role that social forces play in the health and
wellness of individuals, the community and society
SOCL 226   Science, Technology, & Society   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course serves as a broad introduction to the social study and
analysis of science and technology in society. It examines how scientiﬁc
knowledge and technologies are created and constructed and how they
influence and are influenced by society.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand how scientiﬁc knowledge and
technologies are developed in particular historical and cultural contexts
and analyze their impact on our daily lives
SOCL 228   Sociology of the African-American Experience   (3 Credit
Hours)   
A sociological inquiry into the historical and contemporary experience
of African-Americans. Social movements and social change, urban and
institutional processes, social values and collective behavior, and African-
Americans and public policy are among the topics explored.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Race
and Ethnicity   
Course equivalencies:  X-SOCL228/BWS 228   
Outcomes:
Students will gain a deeper understanding of the experiences that
African-Americans have in American society and of the social, political
and institutional forces that have contributed to the historical and
contemporary experience of African-AmericansSOCL 230   Self & Society   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the relationships between the self as a social
product and the larger society in which that self is socialized, develops
and expresses itself. Various theories of selfhood are explored.
Outcomes:
Students will come to appreciate how selfhood, their own and others, is
a product of historical factors as well as social contexts such as class,
gender, race and ethnicity
SOCL 231   Childhood and Society   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course looks at the social construction of childhood, the impact of
parents, the media, peer groups, and educational institutions as well as
changing social attitudes about the place of children in society.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services   
Outcomes:
Students will gain a better understanding of the historical and social
manner in which childhood is constructed and the impacts of various
social institutions, family, religion, media, education on childhood
development
SOCL 234   City, Suburbs & Beyond   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course studies the historical emergence of cities, focusing on
the ecological, demographic, and organizational processes involved
in the continuing growth and change of metropolitan areas and in the
relationship of a metropolitan area to the surrounding region.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services, Race and Ethnicity, Urban
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-SOCL234/URB234   
Outcomes:
Students will understand fundamental facts and theories about the
character and development of cities and urban regions
SOCL 235   Communities in a Global Age   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines communities sociologically, both as a concept and
as they exist in society. The course covers urban, racial/ethnic, religious,
territorial, utopian, ideological and web-based communities, and their
strengths and limitations in a rapidly changing global world.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Urban Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will identify, describe and analyze communities using
sociological concepts and be able to assess the mechanisms by
which old and new communities are being formed as well as their
consequences for social life
SOCL 236   Population Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces the study of demography by examining trends of
fertility, work, marriage, migration and mortality.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics, Human Services   
Course equivalencies:  SOCL236 / SOCL285   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of how the size, composition and
dynamics of a population influence the social, economic and political
structure of individual nations and the world
SOCL 237   Professions and Society   (3 Credit Hours)   
Work involving high levels of expertise--medical, legal, technical, and
much else- is a critical component of modern society. This course
examines how professional work is structured, the way professionals are
trained and organized, the privileges and responsibilities of professional
work, and the role of conflicts over expertise in modern society.
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of how work based on knowledge
and expertise is organized and on the social and economic factors that
contribute to the position of professionals in society

--- Page 630 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 661
SOCL 239   Understanding Bias and Inclusivity   (3 Credit Hours)   
Using an intersectional lens, students learn about how privileg e, power,
and oppression shape ourselves, perceptions of others, and our social
world. They consider how ourselves and others are shaped by and
operate within the larger social system. Students explore their identities,
values, and biases. Students engage in self-reflection to increase self-
awareness.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X - PSYC 239/ SOCL 239   
Outcomes:
Identify feelings about course topics; Demonstrate self-awareness
of identities and values, including the value of difference; Engage in
intergroup dialogue; Articulate how personal power can be used to create
change
SOCL 240   Families   (3 Credit Hours)   
Contemporary family structures encompass a variety of living
arrangements and social relationships. This course considers differences
and similarities among the various family types and explores the social,
cultural and economic forces structuring family life.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services, Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-SOCL240/WOST242/WSGS242   
Outcomes:
Students will develop an expanded understanding of the varieties of
family arrangements and the connections between family life and the
wider social, political economic environment
SOCL 245   Sociology of Education   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a rigorous introduction into the scholarly traditions and
contemporary research developments in the sociology of education.
Topics include: educational stratiﬁcation and inequality, how educational
institutions function and with what policy implications, and social
psychology/human development.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Race and Ethnicity   
Outcomes:
Identify areas of research interest; trace connections to studies in the
ﬁeld; analyze and evaluate policy effectiveness; evaluate the capacity and
potential for institutions to support efforts at social justice
SOCL 247   Sociology of Culture   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the social production, consumption, and use of
culture and cultural objects, especially in the ﬁelds of literature, art,
music, mass media and religion.
Outcomes:
Students will learn sociological methods of analyzing culture and cultural
objects, and will understand the social organization of cultural production
and consumptionSOCL 250   Inequality in Society   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100, PLSC 102, PSYC 100, SOCL 101, WSGS 101, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course examines the manner in which contemporary society is
divided by race, ethnicity, class, sexuality and gender, and the impact
of social institutions on these divisions. An emphasis will be placed on
income/wealth differences, status differences, class conflict and social
conflict over time.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Asian
Studies, Human Services, Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies, Race and
Ethnicity, Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  ASIA/AFR/SOCL/WSGS 250   
Outcomes:
Students will acquire a better understanding of social inequality and what
can be done to make society more just
SOCL 251   Peoples of China: Their Cultures and Customs   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This class introduces China's cultural diversity and unity as a whole. It
provides a general overview of cultural mappings in China, and a detailed
study of signiﬁcant ethnic minorities.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Chinese Language & Culture, Global
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  SOCL251/ASIA252/INTS251   
Outcomes:
Students will gain the ability to perceive cultural phenomena in a
comparative framework and understand cultural differences more deeply
SOCL 252   Global Inequalities   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines inequality on a global scale, focusing on the impact
of globalization processes on race, class and gender inequalities here and
abroad.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Human Services, Race and
Ethnicity   
Outcomes:
Students will analyze how race, class and gender inequalities influence
each other across national boundaries, and will recognize global causes
and consequences of inequality

--- Page 631 ---
662  Sociology
SOCL 254   Sociology of Migration   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is designed to provide a sociological understanding
concerning various impacts of immigration in the United States.
International migration patterns have signiﬁcantly affected the
development of U.S. society since its inception. In recent decades, the
United States experienced a record number of new immigrants from a
variety of countries. In this course, we examine fundamental concepts
for studying migration, and theories that explain international migration.
We also discuss how immigrants have redeﬁned - and will keep redeﬁning
- local and foreign demographic dynamics in receiving and sending
societies, transnational networks, and a more complex ethno-racial
diversity with meaningful international roots., remedial policies, activism,
educational objectives).
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Asian
Studies, Global Studies, Latin American Studies, Race and Ethni city,
Women & Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
Be familiar with key theories, concepts, and analyses that explain
migration issues in the United States; Understand the relevance of
historical and contemporary associations among cultural, economic,
political, and social forces, as well as their impact on immigration;
Understand the relevance of sociological knowledge on migration issues
for dealing with current social problems at different levels (e.g
SOCL 255   Deviance and Social Control   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a socio-historical look at deﬁnitions of deviant behavior
and individuals, an examination of techniques of social control, and an
analysis of speciﬁc forms of deviant behavior such as crime and mental
illness.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services   
Outcomes:
Students learn to analyze how history, science, and philosophy combine
to deﬁne the nature of deviant behavior and to identify deviant individuals
SOCL 258   Confronting Homelessness: Local to Global   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  SOCL 101 or PSYC 100 or PLS 102 or ANTH 100   
Who are homeless people in the United States and beyond? Why are they
homeless? What is being done to address the issues of homelessness?
This course addresses these questions from a variety of disciplinary
perspectives. As an "engaged learning" course, students will also learn
by assisting at various agencies. The student will be able to discuss
framings of the causes of homelessness and evaluate different policy
approaches for addressing it while contributing work to a local agency.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Urban Studies   
SOCL 260   Power in Society   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on sociological theories and case studies of
power, authority, and social change. It explores the ways in which power
relations perpetuate social inequality and the ways in which social
conflicts and power struggles transforms society.
Outcomes:
Students learn about the structures of power in economic systems,
political systems, and organizations; the cultural and ideological
underpinnings of power relationships; and political struggles for social
changeSOCL 261   Social Movements & Social Change   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the dynamics of collective behavior and
movements promoting social change.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies, Sociolegal
Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of competing explanations
of social movements and social change, and will be able to test various
theories by analyzing historical movements for change
SOCL 262   Movements for Social Justice: 60s & Beyond   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course focuses on movements for social justice and human rights
from the 1960s to the present.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services, Women & Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
Students gain an understanding of how and why such movements
emerged and developed the effectiveness of various strategies, and the
impact of movements on American society
SOCL 263   Political and Social Movements in China   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines historical and contemporary movements pursuing
political, economic and social reforms in China. It studies both state-
sponsored and voluntary movements.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  SOCL263/INTS263   
Outcomes:
Students will gain a deeper understanding of China's ongoing
transformation, and will learn how to develop their own scholarly analysis
of such social change
SOCL 265   Globalization & Society   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the nature of contemporary globalization and
considers how it influences communities, nations and the world.
The course examines the positive and negative consequences of
globalization and the global justice movements that have emerged
seeking more equality, tolerance and environmental stewardship.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Urban Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students learn how economic, political and cultural aspect of
globalization impact society in an increasingly interconnected world
SOCL 266   Development and Social Change in Modern China   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course examines change and development in modern China from the
late Qing period to the present, focusing on the movement from a planned
economy to a market-based economy.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies, Women & Gender
Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain knowledge of China's economic development path,
and will apply gender and/or class-based analysis to patterns of social
change

--- Page 632 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 663
SOCL 267   Italy Today   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  One Tier I Foundational Social and Cultural Knowledge Core
course: SOCL 101, ANTH 100, PLSC 102, or PSYC 100   
Italy Today traces the nation's extraordinary transformation from the
ashes of World War II to the leading economic and cultural power it is
today and analyses a broad range of issues in contemporary Italy, such
as Catholicism, gender, family, emigration and immigration, regional
identities, media and material culture.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Italian American Studies, Italian
Studies   
Outcomes:
Understand the transformation of Italy since WWII Think critically about
issues such as stereotypes, regional identities, and diversity
SOCL 270   Sociology of Science   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines science as a distinctive form of knowledge and
social organization.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand science as a human, social enterprise
and its relationship to society
SOCL 272   Environmental Sociology   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the distinctively social aspect of the relationship of
people to their environments, both built and natural.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics, Human Services, Peace, Justice, and
Conflict Studies, Urban Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-SOCL272/ESP272PAX 272BIET272   
Outcomes:
Students will recognize the role that both social and physical factors
play in the environmental problems facing the world; Students will also
develop critical thinking skills needed to evaluate statements and policy
proposal to improve environmental quality
SOCL 275   The Sociology of Consumption   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the profound ways society and individuals have
been transformed by the abundance of consumer goods and mass media
that encourage buying these good.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Urban Studies   
Outcomes:
Student will gain a deeper understanding of the nature and origins of
contemporary consumer society and the ways in which consumerism
impacts society and individuals
SOCL 276   The Sociology and Politics of Food   (3 Credit Hours)   
Explores the impact of globalized economic, political, and social
relationships through the prism of food. Considers the cultural and
ideological dimensions of food, the structure of food production and
consumption, and responses to the global food system.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Urban Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain awareness of themselves as consumers of food and
food products
SOCL 278   Global Health   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course addresses the underlying social, economic, political, and
cultural mechanisms driving some of the leading issues in global
health today; including the rise of non-communicable diseases in low
and middle income countries, neglected infectious diseases, human
resources for health, and access to global pharmaceuticals.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Outcomes:
Students will become familiar with evaluating the global health policy
process, and debating possible routes to achieving health equitySOCL 280   Topics in Contemporary Sociology   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course examines selected contemporary sociological issues.
Topics addressed represent specialized or newly developing areas of
sociological inquiry. Topics will vary from semester to semester.
Outcomes:
Students gain insights into contemporary social issues and learn how to
use the concepts, theory and methods of sociology to examine them
SOCL 281   Current Issues in Medical Education   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore Standing or Above; Instructor Permission   
This class is an opportunity to examine selected reform and innovation
movements facing health professional education and training.
Sophomore standing or above is required.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate critical analysis of selected reforms and
innovations in health professional education and training
SOCL 301   Statistics for Social Research   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  SOCL 206   
The course is a comprehensive introduction to statistical analysis in
social research. Topics include: univariate, bivariate, and multivariate
analysis, computer statistical applications and interpretation of results.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate understanding of statistical thinking and
data analysis techniques and be able to use them to evaluate existing
research and conduct original research
SOCL 302   Qualitative Research   (3 Credit Hours)   
An introduction to the major qualitative methods of social inquiry.
Participant observation, interviewing, historical analysis, and content
analysis, as well as ethical issues of ﬁeld research are studied.
Outcomes:
Students will gain understanding of important methods of data collection
and analysis common in social science research; Students will gain
experience using these techniques to conduct research and evaluate the
research of others
SOCL 304   Global Civil Society and Social Movements   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on global civil society groups (both advocacy groups
or apolitical) and on social movements that seek to ﬁght injustices.
We discuss a variety of examples of civil society projects ranging
from monitoring government corruption and promoting micro-credit to
organizing transnational protest campaigns.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-GLST 304/SOCL 304   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate a comprehension of the dynamics of global
civil society and social movements, both for cases discussed in class and
to material from outside class
SOCL 306   International Development   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides an interdisciplinary overview of the international
development system and issues related to development in those
countries variously referred to as third world, developing, underdeveloped,
or peripheral countries.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-GLST 306/SOCL 306   
Outcomes:
Students will develop a fundamental knowledge of the various factors
that are considered to help or hinder development

--- Page 633 ---
664  Sociology
SOCL 311   Social Science Research Practicum: Cook County Community
Survey   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  SOCL 301 or equivalent   
Familiarity with R, Stata, SAS, or SPSS necessary. Students will analyze
this year's iteration of the annual Cook County Community Survey. They
will draw on the data to prepare written, public-facing reports, public
presentations, and scholarly research.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  PLSC 311/SOCL 311   
Outcomes:
Describe the strengths and limitations of modern polling techniques; Use
statistical software to analyze survey data; Communicate ﬁndings from
surveys to a broad audience orally and in written form
SOCL 334   Latinas/os/xs in Space   (3 Credit Hours)   
Latinas/os/xs are the largest minoritized population in the United
States with a population of more than 60 million. As the fasting growing
demographic in the U.S., how is this complex and variegated population
(re)conceptualizing, (re)framing, (re)making, and (de)constructing spatial
boundaries? Further, how are Latinas/os/xs both transforming and
challenging U.S. physical and conceptual landscapes? Drawing from
spatial, decolonial, and feminist of color theories, we will engage these
questions through a thematic exploration of the ways that Latinas/os/
xs have influenced, shaped, and (re)used space as a struggle to maintain
dignity and engage in place-making. We will connect these ideas to
geography, citizenship, civil rights, social justice, and cultural practices.
This is a discussion and project-based course.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Latin American Studies, Race and Ethnicity,
Women & Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
Identify and describe the impact Latinas/os/xs have on US culture,
history, and geography; Critically analyze political, social, and cultural
treatment of Latinas/os/xs in the US; Critically analyze US culture using
spatial and decolonial theories; Understand the intersection(s) of space,
race, and opportunity within the US; Link social issues and responses to
creative outlets/endeavors; Work in small teams; Gain oral presentation
skills
SOCL 335   Urban Semester Seminar   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior or senior standing   
Students explore how cities work through texts, ﬁeld trips, and guest
speakers, and help ﬁnd solutions to pressing urban issues. They fulﬁll
civic engagement core value requirement.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Urban Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  X-SOCL335/PLSC335   
Outcomes:
Students will understand and address inequities in urban communities,
and identify avenues of leadership and civic engagement in
contemporary cities
SOCL 365   Social Theory & Social Research   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  SOCL 205, 206, 301, and senior standing, or permission of
instructor or chair   
In this capstone course, each student designs and conducts an empirical
research project resulting in a senior research paper.
Outcomes:
Student demonstrate mastery of sociological theory and methods by
writing a research paper bringing a full complement of sociological skills
to bear on an issue of substantial theoretical and/or practical importanceSOCL 370   Undergrad Seminar-Special Topics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Using a seminar format, the course undertakes an in-depth study of
selected contemporary sociological issues in depth. Topics addressed
represent specialized or newly emerging areas of sociological inquiry and
will vary from semester to semester.
Outcomes:
Students have opportunity to examine contemporary social issues in
a seminar environment and learn how to use the concepts, theory and
methods of sociology to examine them
SOCL 372   Directed Readings   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Permission of instructor or chair   
Independent study of a selected body of sociological literature on a topic
deﬁned by the student in collaboration with a faculty advisor.
Outcomes:
Student gains in-depth knowledge of a selected sub-ﬁeld of sociology
SOCL 380   Internship   (3-6 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Permission of instructor or chair   
Supervised ﬁeld experience for students working in a selected community
organization, government agency, social agency, or business.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students have opportunity to apply the skills and analysis of sociology to
a concrete situation
SOCL 380I   Internship: Interreligious & Interfaith Studies Focus   (3 Credit
Hours)   
An internship in an interreligious or multireligious setting. The student
will also write an analysis of the ways diverse religious traditions interact
in practical settings. Restricted to IRIF minors.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Interreligious and Interfaith Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-IRIF 380/SOCL 380I   
Outcomes:
This capstone experience is intended to give students an opportunity
to experience and reflect on developing interreligious cooperation in the
contemporary world
SOCL 397   Independent Study Projects   (3 Credit Hours)   
Independent study of a topic delineated by the student in collaboration
with an individual faculty member.
Outcomes:
Student gains experience and expertise in deﬁning and conducting
independent scholarly work
SOCL 398   Independent Study Projects   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
Independent research done in collaboration with a faculty member on a
sociological topic deﬁned by the student in consultation with a faculty
member.
Outcomes:
Student gains experience and expertise conducting independent research
SOCL 399   Independent Study Projects   (3 Credit Hours)   
Advanced independent research in collaboration with a faculty member
on a sociological topic relevant to the student. Limited to senior
Sociology majors.
Outcomes:
Student gains experience and expertise conducting independent research

--- Page 634 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 665
Honors in Sociology or Sociology/
Anthropology
Department Honors and Awards
1.Alpha Kappa Delta  
Loyola's Sociology Department started a chapter of Alpha Kappa
Delta, (AKD) the International Sociology Honor Society, in 1928.
Membership is open to students who are at least juniors, have an
overall GPA of 3.4 and a 3.6 GPA in Sociology, and have completed
ﬁve or more Sociology courses.
Sociology students inducted into AKD must be advanced students
with demonstrated excellence in both the major and the university
at large. New initiates join a long line of distinguished sociology
students at Loyola and around the world. Each initiate receives a
lifetime membership certiﬁcate and a year's subscription to AKD's
journal, Sociological Inquiry. Graduating AKD members receive AKD
cords, which they wear proudly during graduation ceremonies.
In early April the department will send a letter to eligible students,
inviting them to join AKD. Students may accept or decline the
invitation. Students who wish to join will be inducted into the society
at the annual Sociology awards reception in late April. Graduating
seniors receive a cord to wear with their academic apparel at the
university graduation ceremony. 
2018 Seniors Receiving Cords & New Initiates  (https://www.luc.edu/
sociology/akdseniorsreceivingcordsandnewinitiates/ )
2.Honors in Sociology or Sociology/Anthropology  
Students majoring in Sociology or Sociology/Anthropology can earn
honors in the major. This option is available to students both in the
College of Arts and Sciences Honors program and those who are not
in that program, and may strengthen the academic background of
students planning to go on to graduate or professional school.
Honors in the major are available to students who achieve a 3.4
grade point average overall and in their major and: either
1.write a satisfactory Honor's Thesis under the supervision of a
faculty member in SOCL 365 Social Theory & Social Research  or
2.take two graduate courses in the Sociology program (as electives
toward their undergraduate major) and receive a grade of B or
better. 
Permission to enroll in graduate courses must be obtained from
the course instructor and the Graduate Program Director. 
Interested students should complete this form  (https://
www.luc.edu/media/lucedu/sociology/pdfs/undergrad/
Dept_Honors_reg(2).pdf ) and speak to the Undergraduate
Program Director
3.Ross P . Scherer Award for Outstanding Sociology Junior  
At the end of each academic year, the department recognizes
an outstanding junior who has demonstrated the highest level of
achievement in Sociology. The award is named for Ross P . Scherer,
a former chair and longtime professor in Loyola's Department of
Sociology.
4.Wittner Award for Social Justice in Action  
At the end of each academic year, the department recognizes an
outstanding senior who is engaged and committed to social justice
who has demonstrated the highest level of achievement in Sociology.The award is named for Judith Wittner, a longtime professor in
Loyola's Department of Sociology.
Sociology (BA)
Sociology explores the many ways people interact and organize
themselves—within families and nations, cities and suburbs, factories,
schools, churches, and even gangs. Its subject matter is the world
around us. Sociologists at Loyola explore questions such as how play in
public parks can build community life, effective activism to protect the
environment, and the integration of immigrants into American society.
Undergraduate students entering the department become part of a
distinguished program with a long history of teaching, research, and
service to the community beginning in 1914. With ﬁfteen full-time
sociologists, our department supports both an active research agenda
and a teaching program that grants personal attention to our students,
small class sizes, and opportunities for faculty-student collaborations.
Related Programs
Major
•Sociology-Anthropology (BA)  (p. 669)
Minor
•Sociology Minor  (p. 668)
Combined
•Sociology (BA/MA)  (p. 1361 )
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesSOCL 101Society in a Global Age3
SOCL 205 Sociological Thought 13SOCL 206Principles of Social Research3
SOCL 301 Statistics for Social Research 4SOCL 365Social Theory & Social Research 23
ElectivesComplete six total electives; ﬁve must be from SOCL 210-SOCL 380.
3,4,518Total Hours34
1Any Sociology 100-level course is considered to be a prerequisite for
SOCL 205 , except by special permission of the instructor.
2SOCL 205 , SOCL 206 , and SOCL 301  are prerequisites for SOCL 365 .
These courses provide social science students with the theory and
methodology background needed for more advanced work.
3Only one semester of SOCL 380  may be counted toward the major
(although this is a six credit hour course, it counts as one course).
4In choosing electives, majors should consult with their department
advisor.   One course from another social science may be substituted
with departmental permission.
5A list of all Sociology (SOCL) course descriptions can be found here
(p. 2895 ).

--- Page 635 ---
666  Sociology (BA)
Optional Concentrations
Health and Community Concentration
The Health and Community Concentration gives students a broad
background in the discipline overall while allowing students to focus
their coursework on the substantive areas of healthcare institutions,
medical sociology, and the social sources of health-related inequalities
across communities, including attention to race, ethnicity, gender, social
class and neighborhoods. The Health and Community Concentration
is well suited for students interested in a broad range of careers and
courses of graduate study in health-related ﬁelds, including: medical
school, medicine, and other careers in medical care (terriﬁc MCAT prep);
healthcare administration and healthcare policy; graduate study in
medical sociology and/or gerontology; graduate study and careers in
counseling; advocacy and/or non-proﬁt work focused on populations
facing health-based risks and inequalities both in the U.S. and  overseas.
Code Title Hours
Required Intro CourseSOCL 101Society in a Global AgeHealth & Health CareSelect one of the following:3
SOCL 225 Sociology of Health CareSOCL 370Undergrad Seminar-Special Topics 1Populations (Gender, Race/Ethnicity, Immigration)Select two of the following:6
SOCL 122 Race and Ethnic RelationsSOCL 145Religion & SocietySOCL 171 Sociology of Sex and GenderSOCL 210Gender and WorkSOCL 220 Topics in the Life Cycle 1SOCL 221Sociology and Culture of the Life CourseSOCL 228 Sociology of the African-American ExperienceSOCL 230Self & SocietySOCL 231 Childhood and SocietySOCL 236Population StudiesSOCL 240 FamiliesSOCL 280Topics in Contemporary SociologySOCL 380 InternshipCommunities and NeighborhoodsSelect one of the following: 3SOCL 125Chicago: Urban MetropolisSOCL 234 City, Suburbs & BeyondSOCL 235Communities in a Global AgeSOCL 272 Environmental SociologySOCL 335Urban Semester Seminar 2Poverty and InequalitySelect one of the following:3
SOCL 121 Social ProblemsSOCL 222Poverty & Welfare in AmericaSOCL 250 Inequality in SocietySOCL 260Power in SocietySOCL 265 Globalization & Society 2SOCL 252Global InequalitiesSOCL 306International DevelopmentTotal Hours15
1Indicates courses that are infrequently offered
2Indicates experiential learning
Social Justice Concentration
The Social Justice Concentration gives students a broad background in
the discipline overall, and in keeping with the centrality of social justice
to Loyola’s mission, this concentration allows students to focus their
coursework on the substantive topics of social inequality, social change,
and social justice. The Social Justice concentration is well suited for
students interested in a broad range of careers, advocacy, and courses of
graduate study in ﬁelds including: law school and legal practic e in areas
such as civil rights law, gender-based violence, immigration law; public
policy and public administration concerning issues for marginalized
populations (e.g., homelessness, education, job training/placement,
housing, residency status, post-incarceration reentry, voting rights, etc.);
social work and human services; teaching and educational leadership
and policy; higher education and student affairs; advocacy and non-proﬁt
management in organizations that serve marginalized populations; labor
organizing and collective bargaining; research for labor unions, social
service agencies, and/or non-proﬁt organizations.
Code Title Hours
Required Intro CourseSOCL 101Society in a Global AgeStratiﬁcation and InequalitySelect one of the following:3
SOCL 250 Inequality in SocietySOCL 252Global InequalitiesSOCL 260 Power in SocietySOCL 306International DevelopmentPopulations (Gender, Race/Ethnicity, Immigration)Select two of the following:6
SOCL 122 Race and Ethnic RelationsSOCL 145Religion & SocietySOCL 171 Sociology of Sex and GenderSOCL 210Gender and WorkSOCL 220 Topics in the Life Cycle 1SOCL 221Sociology and Culture of the Life CourseSOCL 228 Sociology of the African-American ExperienceSOCL 230Self & SocietySOCL 231 Childhood and SocietySOCL 236Population StudiesSOCL 240 FamiliesSOCL 280Topics in Contemporary SociologySOCL 370 Undergrad Seminar-Special TopicsSOCL 380InternshipDeviance, Social Control, and LawSelect one of the following:3
SOCL 215 Law & SocietySOCL 216The Sociology of ViolenceSOCL 255 Deviance and Social ControlSocial Change

--- Page 636 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 667
Select one of the following: 3SOCL 234City, Suburbs & BeyondSOCL 261 Social Movements & Social ChangeSOCL 265Globalization & Society 2SOCL 272 Environmental SociologySOCL 304Global Civil Society and Social MovementsSOCL 335Urban Semester Seminar 2Total Hours15
1Indicates courses that are infrequently offered
2Indicates experiential learning
Research Methods Concentration
The Research Methods Concentration  gives students a broad background
in the discipline overall , while  provid ing students  the opportunity
to focus their coursework on  the principles and practices of social
research  methodology .  This concentration emphasizes both quantitative
and qualitative research methodologies, equipping students with the
skills to design, conduct, and analyze studies in the social sciences . The
Research Methods Concentration  is well suited for students interested
in advanced degrees in  business, graduate  school , and a  broad range
of careers,  including  social science research,  market  research , data
analytics,  policy analyst,  user experience/design , statistician,  census
researcher,  survey research technician, and  non- proﬁt  or private
organizational management.
Code Title Hours
Required Intro CourseSOCL 101Society in a Global AgeMethodsSelect ﬁve of the following15
SOCL 206 Principles of Social ResearchSOCL 236Population StudiesSOCL 301 Statistics for Social ResearchSOCL 302Qualitative Research 2SOCL 335 Urban Semester Seminar 2SOCL 365Social Theory & Social Research 2SOCL 370Undergrad Seminar-Special TopicsTotal Hours15
1Indicates courses that are infrequently offered
2Indicates experiential learning
Double Majors
For students with a broad range of interests, a double major may offer a
desirable option. 
Sociology is most frequently combined with another social science
(political science, psychology, etc.), but students in philosophy, biology,
and languages have also found a second major in Sociology useful.
Suggested Sequence of Courses  
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.In the suggested sequence, courses can either be taken in Fall or Spring
semester dependent on student's schedules.
Course Title Hours
Freshman
FallSOCL 100-Level Course3 Hours3
SpringSociology Elective3 Hours3
Sophomore
Fall
SOCL 205 Sociological Thought 3SOCL 301Statistics for Social Research4 Hours7
SpringSOCL 206Principles of Social Research3Sociology Elective3 Hours6
Junior
FallSociology Elective  13 Hours3
SpringSociology Elective  13 Hours3
Senior
Fall
Sociology Elective  13SOCL 365Social Theory & Social Research3 Hours6
SpringSociology Elective  13 Hours3 Total Hours34
1During this semester, students may pursue a possible internship as an
elective credit.
Transferring Credit
In completing major requirements, not more than ﬁve (5) courses or 15
semester hours will be accepted in transfer from other colleges and
universities.
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).

--- Page 637 ---
668  Sociology Minor
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Critical Thinking - demonstrate the ability to analyze and evaluate
multiple and competing social, political, and/or cultural arguments.
•Sociological Imagination - the ability to articulate and evaluate
how individual biographies are shaped by social structures, social
institutions, cultural routines, and multiple of elements of social
difference and/or inequality.
•Communication - the ability to formulate effective and convincing
written and verbal arguments.
•Diversity – an awareness of how people of different cultural, religious,
and political belief systems interpret the world around them through
those beliefs.
•Sociological Theory - the ability to use and evaluate both classical
and contemporary perspectives in sociological theory.
•Methodology - the ability to interpret and evaluate several of
the major social science research methodologies, as well as the
relationship between research questions and appropriate methods.
•Substantive Areas - the ability to demonstrate knowledge of multiple
key substantive areas within the ﬁeld of sociology and evaluate
competing perspectives.
•Social Justice in the Jesuit Tradition - the ability to articulate and
evaluate how sociological insights should inform a commitment to
social justice.
Sociology Minor
A minor in Sociology is a good way to apply the sociological imagination
to a speciﬁc segment of social life. The department offers three
concentrations that can serve as a guide to students.
•Our Health and Community Concentration  allows  students to
focus their coursework on the substantive areas of healthcare
institutions, medical sociology, and the social sources of health-
related inequalities across communities,  including attention to race,
ethnicity, gender, social class and neighborhoods. This concentration
is a great way to complement careers and graduate work in medicine,
healthcare administration and policy, and work with populations
facing health-based risks in the U.S. or overseas.
•Our Social Justice Concentration  allows students to focus their
coursework on the substantive topics of social inequality, social
change, and social justice, in keeping with Loyola's mission. This
concentration can help students prepare for careers in law, legal
aid and advocacy, public policy and administration, social work and
human services, and many other areas.
•Our Research Methods Concentration  emphasizes both quantitative
and qualitative research methodologies, equipping students with the
skills to design, conduct, and analyze studies in the social sciences.
This concentration is well-suited for students thinking about c areers
in social science, market research, policy analysis, and related ﬁelds. Students can also create their own elective path through the minor.
Those doing so may wish to consult the Department Chairperson or
the Department's Undergraduate Program Director in deciding which
electives to take.
Related Programs
Major
•Sociology (BA)  (p. 665)
•Sociology-Anthropology (BA)  (p. 669)
Minor
•Psychology Minor  (p. 653)
Curriculum
In choosing elective courses in their undergraduate program, students
may wish to take a minor sequence in Sociology. They may do this by
completing ﬁve courses in Sociology in addition to SOCL 101 Society in a
Global Age  (or its equivalent).
Students who minor in Sociology are advised to choose electives with
some focus in mind (e.g., health in society, social justice in society, urban
problems and policies) and to consult the Department Chairperson or
the Department's Undergraduate Program Director in deciding which
electives to take. Only one semester of SOCL 380  and one 100-level
course in addition to SOCL 101 Society in a Global Age  (or its equivalent)
can count for the minor. Any courses taken for a minor in Sociology may
be applied to the Department's major requirements, if the student should
decide to take sociology as a major. In completing minor requirements,
only three courses (nine semester credit hours) will be accepted in
transfer from other colleges and universities.
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesSOCL 101Society in a Global Age (or other 100-level class)3
Elective Courses  (p.  ) 1, 2SOCL Elective3
SOCL Elective 3SOCL Elective3
SOCL Elective 3SOCL Elective3Total Hours18
1May count only one semester of SOCL 380 Internship  and one 100-
level course. Only two courses (six semester hours) will be accepted in
transfer credit toward the minor.
2See Sociology Courses  (p. 658) for a complete list.
Learning Outcomes
•Critical Thinking - demonstrate the ability to analyze and evaluate
multiple and competing social, political, and/or cultural arguments.
•Sociological Imagination - the ability to articulate and evaluate
how individual biographies are shaped by social structures, social
institutions, cultural routines, and multiple of elements of social
difference and/or inequality.
•Communication - the ability to formulate effective and convincing
written and verbal arguments.

--- Page 638 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 669
•Diversity – an awareness of how people of different cultural, religious,
and political belief systems interpret the world around them through
those beliefs.
•Sociological Theory - the ability to use and evaluate both classical
and contemporary perspectives in sociological theory.
•Methodology - the ability to interpret and evaluate several of
the major social science research methodologies, as well as the
relationship between research questions and appropriate methods.
•Substantive Areas - the ability to demonstrate knowledge of multiple
key substantive areas within the ﬁeld of sociology and evaluate
competing perspectives.
•Social Justice in the Jesuit Tradition - the ability to articulate and
evaluate how sociological insights should inform a commitment to
social justice.
Sociology-Anthropology (BA)
This combined BA degree is designed for those students who are
interested in both sociology and anthropology. It focuses on those areas
of the two disciplines where there is convergence in theory and methods.
Through the SANT major, students are introduced to major substantive
areas in both disciplines. The major allows enough choice in electives
that students may focus on a broader perspective in social science than
is available in either the single sociology major or the single anthropology
major.
Related Programs
Major
•Anthropology (BA)  (p. 272)
•Anthropology (BS)  (p. 273)
•Sociology (BA)  (p. 665)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Natural Science Intro CourseSelect one of the following:3
ANTH 101 Human OriginsANTH 103Biological Background Human Social BehaviorANTH 104 The Human Ecological FootprintANTH 105Human Biocultural DiversityANTH 106 Sex, Science and Anthropological InquiryANTH 245Gender in Deep TimeSocial Science Intro CoursesANTH 100Globalization and Local Cultures3or ANTH 102Culture, Society, and Diversity
SOCL 101 Society in a Global Age 3Ethnographic Area CourseSelect one ANTH course focusing on an ethnographic area of the
following:3ANTH 207Economies, Culture, and DevelopmentANTH 208 Language and IdentityANTH 211Peoples of Latin AmericaANTH 212 Peoples of Native North AmericaANTH 213Culture in AfricaANTH 214 African-American AnthropologyANTH 215Contemporary Japanese CultureANTH 216 Cultures of MigrationANTH 217Mexican Culture & HeritageANTH 220 Contemporary Cultures of the Middle EastANTH 222Culture in Contemporary EuropeANTH 224 Social Movements, Culture, and ActivismANTH 225Museum CulturesTheory CourseSelect one of the following:3
SOCL 205 Sociological ThoughtANTH 304Anthropological TheoryMethods CoursesSOCL 206Principles of Social Research3
Select one of the following: 3ANTH 356Bioanthropological Lab WorkANTH 365 Archaeology Lab MethodsSOCL 301Statistics for Social ResearchAnthropology ElectivesSelect one of the following:3
ANTH 241 Principles of ArchaeologyANTH 242Mesoamerican Archaeology and SurvivanceANTH 243 North American ArchaeologyANTH 246Ancient Human-Animal InteractionsANTH 247 Aliens, Atlantis, and ArchaeologyANTH 280Evolution of Human DiseaseANTH 281 Evolution of the Human DietANTH 324Human EvolutionANTH 325 Primatology-Behavior & EcologyANTH 326Human Osteology Lec/LabANTH 327 Dental AnthropologyANTH 359PaleopathologyANTH 360 Issues in ArchaeologyANTH 362Issues in Biological AnthropologyAny additional 200-300-level ANTH course 3Sociology ElectivesSelect one of the following: 3SOCL 121Social ProblemsSOCL 122 Race and Ethnic RelationsSOCL 123Mass Media and Popular CultureSOCL 125 Chicago: Urban MetropolisSOCL 145Religion & SocietySOCL 171 Sociology of Sex and GenderA 200-300-level SOCL courseAny 200-300-level SOCL course 3Theory/Methods SeminarSelect one of the following: 3ANTH 317Ethnographic Methods (EL, WI)SOCL 365Social Theory & Social Research (EL, WI)Total Hours36

--- Page 639 ---
670  Theology
Students interested in pursuing the joint Sociology-Anthropology major
should consult one of the departmental Chairpersons or Undergraduate
Program Directors.
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
Students who complete the combined Sociology-Anthropology degree
will:
•Acquire an understanding of the major substantive areas in both
anthropology and sociology 
•Become familiar with areas where there is convergence in theory
and methods in the two disciplines as well as how the disciplin es are
distinct
•Gain a broader perspective in social science than is available in either
the single Sociology major or the single Anthropology major 
•Develop skills to analyze multiple kinds of social science data and
communicate social science knowledge verbally and in writing
Theology
Thinking Theologically
All the degree programs offered by the Department of Theology, from
undergraduate core classes to advanced Ph.D. seminars are designed
to provide students with resources for the analysis of religion; for
investigation of the sources, historical development and contemporary
practices of particular religious traditions - principally the Roman
Catholic tradition, although attention is given to other Christian traditions
as well as Judaism, Islam and eastern religions; and for the critical
appropriation of these traditions for one's personal faith and for
sympathetic appreciation of the beliefs of others.
The best of contemporary Roman Catholic thought embraces dialogue
and engagement with multiple religious traditions. And, so, the Theology
Department at Loyola University Chicago welcomes dialogue with the
diverse Christian and non-Christian traditions.
Theological thinking seeks not only an understanding of the nat ure
of religion. It also seeks an understanding of the relationship of the
Christian tradition to a contemporary world where social, political,
and economic structures are often unjust; where secular faiths arise
and challenge the self-evidentness of the Christian faith; and wherescientiﬁc and technological advances pose new problems for human self-
understanding.
Statement of Current Department
Undergraduate Learning Goals
As teacher-scholars in the ﬁelds of Theology and Religious Studies within
Loyola University Chicago’s Department of Theology, we identify the
following as fundamental learning goals for the undergraduate students
whom we have the privilege to teach and learn. These goals express our
hopes for, and our promise to, our students throughout their learning
experience with us; while no single one of our courses likely achieves all
of these goals (or even necessarily all of any one goal), we aim to provide
a learning environment across the sum of our courses in which students
may achieve all four.
•Expand awareness and critical openness to the complex interaction
of religion and human experience, the diverse ways that this
experience has been expressed by individuals and communities
around the world, and the theological reflection on that experience in
the Christian tradition.
•Deepen understanding and interpretation in the areas of religious
studies and Christian theology using the ﬁelds’ best methods and the
best interdisciplinary resources within the university.
•Sharpen evaluative skills regarding the cognitive, ethical, and
aesthetic impact of religions on human life and the natural world.
•Encourage action utilizing theological and religious studies
backgrounds for the betterment of human society and the natural
world.
Contact Us
Interested in one of these Majors or Minors? Contact Dr. Lauren O'Connell
(loconnell1@luc.edu ), the Theology Department's Undergraduate
Program Director, or Randall Newman ( rnewman2@luc.edu ), Program
Coordinator.
Undergraduate Programs
•Honors/Distinction in Theology  (p. 676)
•Pastoral Leadership Minor  (p. 677)
•Religious Studies (BA)  (p. 678)
•Religious Studies Minor  (p. 681)
•Theology (BA)  (p. 682)
•Theology (BA/MA)  (p. 1384 )
•Theology/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1388 )
•Theology Minor  (p. 685)
Theology Department Policies
Double-Dipping Policy
•Students may not major and minor in the same discipline.
•Majors: Not less than 21 credit hours in the individual student’s
transcript must be unique to each major; that is, the courses in
question are considered as actually fulﬁlling requirements of one
major, not of more than one major
•Minors and interdisciplinary minors: not less than 8 credit hours in
the individual student’s transcript must be unique to each minor;
that is, the courses in question are considered as actually fulﬁlling
requirements of one minor, not of more than one minor or major.

--- Page 640 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 671
•General exceptions to Rules 2 and 3 will be made if approved by
the chairs/directors of the department(s)/program(s) housing each
affected major and minor. A list of standing general exceptions will be
maintained by the Dean's ofﬁce.
•Individual student exceptions may be made in appropriate cases by
department chairs and program directors.
•Departments and Programs may enforce stricter double-dipping
policies than those stated above, which also should be provided to
the Dean’s Ofﬁce.
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Theology (THEO)
THEO 100   Christian Theology   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to reflection on and analysis of the
Christian theological tradition.
Knowledge Area:  Foundational Theological Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies   
Course equivalencies:  ACTHE 101 / THEO 100   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the tasks of
Christian theology in its efforts to understand the human situation
from the perspective of faith, various challenges to theology in the
contemporary world, and will focus on one or more current theological
issues
THEO 107   Introduction to Religious Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to the contemporary ﬁeld of religious
studies, focusing on both the theoretical investigations of religious
traditions, as well as on the study of selected religious texts and
practices (such as creation stories, sacred biographies, sacred scriptures
of a religious tradition(s) rituals, ritual taboos, religiously motivated
behaviors.
Knowledge Area:  Foundational Theological Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Interreligious and Interfaith Studies   
Course equivalencies:  THEO170 / THEO270 / ACTHE 107   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze and interpret various ways in which
religious traditions intersect with contemporary issues
THEO 114   Introduction to the Qur'an   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides an introduction to the central Islamic scripture,
the Qur'an in terms of its main features and themes, and as a basis
for the theological and ethical teachings of Islam, employing both
classical interpretive traditions and contemporary academic approaches.
Outcome: Students will be able to demonstrate and understanding of
the nature of the main Islamic scripture, the Qur'an, and its influence
on Muslim beliefs, ethical understandings, and social and religious
practices.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Theological Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Black
World Studies, Global Studies, Islamic World Studies   
Course equivalencies:  THEO114INTS114BWS114IWS114   THEO 167   Religions in China   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a survey of various religions in China that may include,
not only Confucianism and Taoism, but also Buddhism, Christianity,
Islam, Judaism, Zoroastrianism, Manicheism and popular or "folk"
religion. The course will consider the function of these various religions
in the development of Chinese society and their signiﬁcance in Chinese
civilization from ancient mythology to contemporary practices and
developments. "
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO167/ASIA167/INTS167   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge of the beliefs, practices,
and institutions in varied contexts and historical periods in China, of
various religions, both indigenous and "foreign
THEO 168   Sacred Texts of China   (3 Credit Hours)   
Through the study of primary sacred texts of China (in translation), this
class will provide a basic understanding of Chinese thought and its
historical development. Interconnections among the various periods and
different schools of Chinese philosophy such as Confucianism, Taoism,
Buddhism and Neo-Confucianism will be demonstrated and discussed
from ancient through the medieval and modern periods.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO168/ASIA168/INTS168   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge of the major Chinese
sacred texts and teachings of various religious and philosophical
traditions, and how they developed and interacted historically
THEO 169   Taoism   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students will study the history and main ideas and practices of Taoism,
meet the sages who wrote the Taoist texts, be introduced to the various
schools of Taoist philosophy, and get a feel for what it means to practice
Taoism today. The course will illustrate how religious Taoism established
a relationship with Confucian thought and practice as well as how at each
stage of its historical development, Taoism exerted a profound influence
on Chinese politics, economy, culture, art, natural sciences, and social life.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Theological Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Chinese Language & Culture, Global
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO169/ASIA169/INTS169   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge of philosophical and
religious Taoist beliefs, practices, and institutions in varied contexts and
historical periods
THEO 185   Christian Ethics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Introduction to Christian Ethics is a core course that explores the major
sources, methods, and insights of Christian social and theological ethics.
Particular attention is given to Roman Catholic thought. The course will
concentrate on the foundational sources in Christian ethics and examine
the moral signiﬁcance of major theological themes and afﬁrmations.
Knowledge Area:  Ethics   
Outcomes:
Students will identify the major sources of Christian ethics (Scripture,
Church tradition, philosophy, the social and human sciences, and human
experience), and gain practice in identifying how different thinkers use,
interpret, and prioritize these sources

--- Page 641 ---
672  Theology
THEO 186   Global Religious Ethics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Religious Ethics explores fundamental moral sources and methods in
Christian ethics in dialogue with the ethical understandings of at least
one other religious tradition, and with special attention to Roman Catholic
thought. In doing so, it explores moral issues faced by individuals and
communities from theological perspectives, particularly mindful of how
the economic, political and cultural structures in a religiously plural world
affect those issues.
Knowledge Area:  Ethics   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies   
Outcomes:
In this course, students will explore and compare the ethical
understandings of Christianity and at least one other religious tradition;
With respect to each tradition, students will learn about the foundational
sources, doctrines and questions that guide its ethical thinking
THEO 190   Loyola's Mission: Ignatian Traditions   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course introduces students to LUC's mission through theological
reflection on the main themes of the Transformative Education mission-
statement: spirituality and faith, interlinked human knowing, moral
compass, civic and environmental responsibility.
Course equivalencies:  THEO190 / THEO290   
Outcomes:
Integration into the LUC community, ethos, and vision
THEO 192   Topics in Moral Problems   (3 Credit Hours)   
A critical examination of one or more areas of moral concern from the
viewpoint of Christian ethics. May include: medical ethics, professional
ethics, social justice issues, racism, environmental concerns, and war and
peace studies.
Course equivalencies:  THEO192 / THEO292   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of ethical
comprehension, analysis, and decision-making within the context of
select theological and religious traditions
THEO 203   Social Justice and Injustice   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THEO 100, THEO 107, or equivalent; please check
requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions   
The course introduces students to Catholic and Protestant approaches
to social justice. Students will also study theories and analyses of
social injustice. Students will study speciﬁc instances of social injustice
(gender, race, and class). It will increase student awareness of diversity, in
the United States and globally.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Theological Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics, Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies,
Race and Ethnicity   
Outcomes:
Summarize relevant social, economic, policy history/context that related
to current sites of injustice related to racial-ethnic inequalities, economic
inequality, immigration status, healthcare, and sex/gender inequality;
Distinguish among distinct theories of justice in both theological
and philosophical thought; Describe the moral challenges posed by
injustice; Relate key ideas, traditions, & practices in Christian theological,
philosophical, and other religious thought that may help individuals and
societies move closer to approximating justice in society/worldTHEO 204   Religious Ethics and the Ecological Crisis   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THEO 100, THEO 107, or equivalent; please check
requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions   
Advances in technology and industry confront us with unprecedented
abilities for altering long standing climate patterns. These capacities
challenge many traditional religious and ethical assumptions about
humanity and our relationship to the nonhuman world. We will examine
the resources that religious traditions of the world offer for promoting
ecological responsibility.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Theological Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics, Catholic Studies, Peace, Justice, and
Conflict Studies   
Outcomes:
students will be able to:*Summarize relevant history related to scientiﬁc,
policy & political data and decisions *Describe central scientiﬁc and
ethical challenges posed by the climate crisis *Relate key ideas,
traditions, & practices in Christian theological, philosophical, and other
religious thought that may help address this crisis
THEO 231   Hebrew Bible/Old Testament   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THEO 100, THEO 107, or equivalent; please check
requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course provides an introduction to the Old Testament / Tanakh
(Hebrew Scriptures).
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Theological Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Islamic World Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of central texts,
beliefs, ethical understanding, and practices of Judaism and Christianity
THEO 232   New Testament   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THEO 100 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course is an introduction to the historical and theological reading of
the various documents of early Christianity known as the New Testament.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Theological Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO112/CATH112   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the liter ary genres
found in the New Testament and explain why the recognition of genre
is essential to the interpretation of the New Testament, as well as the
importance of how the New Testament documents have reached their
present state
THEO 265   Sacraments and the Christian Imagination   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THEO 100 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course studies the realities of Christian faith life as expressed and
celebrated in the concrete rituals of the Christian communities.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Theological Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO265/CATH106   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate how a sacramental system of
aesthetics is often embedded in cultural artifacts such as poetry, music,
painting, literature, and ﬁlm, and recognize and interpret the impact
of history and cultures on the development of Christian doctrine and
practices

--- Page 642 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 673
THEO 266   Church & Global Cultures   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THEO 100, THEO 107, or equivalent; please check
requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course provides an introduction to ways in which the Christian
churches, and primarily the Roman Catholic Church, understand and
enact their identity in relation to the secular world of culture, economics,
and politics, both nationally and globally.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Theological Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, Italian Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO105/CATH105   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze and interpret contrasting Christian
understandings of the notion of original sin, and demonstrate knowledge,
with attention to historical development, of the central texts, beliefs,
ethical understandings, and practices of at least one religious tradition
THEO 267   Jesus Christ   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THEO 100 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course examines the life of Jesus Christ, utilizing the Gospels, the
writings of Paul and other biblical authors, the early ecumenical councils,
and the history of church doctrine, including contemporary scholarship.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Theological Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
Course equivalencies:  THEO104/CATH104   
Outcomes:
This course examines the life of Jesus Christ, utilizing the Gospels, the
writings of Paul and other biblical authors, the early ecumenical councils,
and the history of church doctrine, including contemporary scholarship
THEO 272   Judaism   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THEO 100, THEO 107, or equivalent; please check
requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course provides an introduction to Judaism.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Theological Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, Islamic World Studies   
Course equivalencies:  THEO172/THEO272/INTS172   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to name and discuss some of the most impo rtant
Jewish scriptures, articulate the general outline of the historical evolution
of Judaism, and deﬁne and discuss key concepts, terms, values, and
religious practices foundational to Judaism
THEO 276   Black World Religion   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THEO 100, THEO 107, or equivalent; please check
requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course explores the revelatory manner in which the divine comes
to unique presence and expression among African peoples throughout
human history. It will examine the religious experiences and traditions
of: Africa's ancient Nile valley civilizations, long recognized as cradling
the world's spiritual and philosophical wisdom and as influencing the
formative development of Judaism, Christianity, and Islam.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Black
World Studies, Interreligious and Interfaith Studies, African Studies and
the African Diaspora, Black World Studies, Interreligious and Interfaith
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  THEO176 / THEO276/BWS288   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate their knowledge of African peoples' religious
experiences within their various historical and cultural contextsTHEO 278   Religion & Gender   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THEO 100, THEO 107, or equivalent; please check
requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course will study the role of women in at least one (if not more) of
the major world religious traditions.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Theological Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  THEO178/THEO278/WSGS278   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the influence of
religion on gender roles, and how women in the contemporary world are
reinterpreting their religious traditions
THEO 279   Roman Catholicism   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THEO 100 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course provides an introduction to Roman Catholicism.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Theological Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, Italian Studies   
Course equivalencies:  THEO179/THEO279/CATH179   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the most
important Roman Catholic beliefs, the historical evolution of Roman
Catholicism, the key Roman Catholic concepts, terms, values, and
religious practices, and the main lines of current Roman Catholic identity
in today's world
THEO 280   Religion & Interdisciplinary Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
Course topics will rotate to incorporate the study of religion in a variety of
other disciplines. Focus will be on the influence or application of religious
teachings and traditions in the ﬁelds of healthcare, politics, education,
etc.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Theological Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  THEO180 / THEO280   
Outcomes:
Describe the ethical implications of the religious beliefs and traditions of
at least one religion for the primary ﬁeld of study
THEO 281   Christianity Through Time   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THEO 100, THEO 107, or equivalent; please check
requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions   
The course is a survey course in the history of Christian thought. Not
a course in Church history, this is a course whose primary goal is to
investigate the major interactions between Christian thought and practice
and the cultures that it has been a part of in its two thousand year history.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Theological Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, German Studies, Medieval
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  THEO181/ THEO281/CATH181   
Outcomes:
Students will learn to analyze and interpret religious texts, beliefs and
practices using standard scholarly methods and tools

--- Page 643 ---
674  Theology
THEO 282   Hinduism   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THEO 100, THEO 107, or equivalent; please check
requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course provides an introduction to Hinduism.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Theological Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  THEO196/ASIA196/INTS294   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the most
important Hindu scriptures, the general outline of the historical evolution
of Hinduism, the key Hindu concepts, terms, values, and religious
practices, and the basic narratives and imagery of Hinduism
THEO 293   Christian Marriage   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THEO 100, THEO 107, or equivalent; please check
requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course examines the Christian understanding of marriage.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Theological Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
Course equivalencies:  THEO193/THEO293/CATH193   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of historical &
ethical principles used to evaluate particular issues relevant to the
understanding of the Christian tradition of marriage
THEO 295   Islam   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THEO 100, THEO 107, or equivalent; please check
requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course will provide an introduction to Islam.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Theological Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Arabic Language and Culture, Asian Studies,
Global Studies, Islamic World Studies, Arabic Language and Culture,
Asian Studies, Global Studies, Islamic World Studies   
Course equivalencies:  THEO195/ASIA195/INTS295/IWS195   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the most
important Muslim scriptures, the general outline of the historical
evolution of Islam, the key Islamic concepts, terms, values, and religious
practices, and the diversity within Islam
THEO 297   Buddhism   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THEO 100, THEO 107, or equivalent; please check
requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course provides an introduction to Buddhism.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Theological Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies, Japanese Language
and Culture   
Course equivalencies:  THEO197/ASIA197/INTS297   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the most
important Buddhist scriptures, the general outline of the historical
evolution of Buddhism, including its different major branches, and the key
Buddhist concepts, terms, values, and religious practicesTHEO 299   Religions of Asia   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THEO 100, THEO 107, or equivalent; please check
requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions   
An introductory survey of selected teachings, institutions, and practices
of the great religious traditions of South Asia and East Asia placed in
historical context.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO199/ASIA199/INTS199   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the central texts,
beliefs, ethical understandings, and practices of at least three Asian
religions
THEO 302   Wisdom Literature and Psalms   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THEO 111   
A study of the wisdom literature of the Old Testament, attention to the
nature of the wisdom tradition in Israel; study of the Psalms as the prayer
of Israel.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of central texts,
beliefs, ethical understanding, and practices of Judaism and Christianity
THEO 303   Pentateuch   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THEO 111   
The literary structure of the ﬁrst ﬁve books of the Bible.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of central texts,
beliefs, ethical understanding, and practices of Judaism and Christianity
THEO 304   Israel Conquest to Exile   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THEO 111   
A study of the so-called historical books of the Bible (Joshua, Judges,
Samuel, Kings) with attention to the history of Israel from conquest to
exile.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of central texts,
beliefs, ethical understanding, and practices of Judaism and Christianity
THEO 308   Biblical Hebrew I   (3 Credit Hours)   
The sound, forms and grammar of biblical language. Selected readings
from the Old Testament.
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO308/CLST101   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of Biblical Hebrew
THEO 309   Biblical Hebrew II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THEO 308   
Further study of biblical language. Selected readings from the Old
Testament.
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO309/CLST102   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of Biblical Hebrew
THEO 311   The Meaning of Jesus Christ   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THEO 104   
Interpretations of the person and work of Jesus.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the nature of
Jesus Christ as both human and divine, what this might mean, how this
formulation was derived, and the varieties of understanding of Christ
within the Scriptures, the church, and modern scholarship

--- Page 644 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 675
THEO 313   Gospels of Matthew, Mark & Luke   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THEO 112   
An analysis of the development of the synoptic tradition (the gospels of
Matthew, Mark and Luke).
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the various literary
elements found in these particular gospels
THEO 317   Christian Thought: Ancient-Medieval   (3 Credit Hours)   
The development of various Christian doctrines in light of their historical
milieu during the ﬁrst fourteen centuries of Christian thought.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies, Medieval
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO317/CATH317/MSTU360   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to assess how various conﬁgurations of theological
perspectives can both expand and foreshorten the way human thinking
has gone on
THEO 318   Christian Thought: Reformation to Modern   (3 Credit Hours)   
The development of various Christian doctrines in light of their historical
milieu during the last six centuries of Christian thought.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, European Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO318/CATH318   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to assess how various conﬁgurations of theological
perspectives can both expand and foreshorten the way human thinking
has gone on
THEO 330   Liberation Theology   (3 Credit Hours)   
An introduction to the contemporary theologies of liberation emerging in
Latin American, African, and Asian Christian.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies, Global Studies, Latin American
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO/INTS/LASP330/PAX332   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of ethical
comprehension, analysis, and decision-making within the context of
select theological and religious traditions
THEO 331   Theology of Secularization   (3 Credit Hours)   
An exploration of the history of secularization and the context it
establishes for American Christianity. Focus on practical issues of
Christian living.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze and interpret various ways in which
religious traditions intersect with contemporary issues
THEO 340   Foundations of Christian Morality   (3 Credit Hours)   
A survey of theological and philosophical issues which shape the
articulation of speciﬁc moral principles.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of ethical
comprehension, analysis, and decision-making within the context of
select theological and religious traditionsTHEO 342   Perspectives on Life and Death   (3 Credit Hours)   
Examination of the exploration of our perception of the life range for
possible reevaluation and rearticulation, in view of modern scientiﬁc
developments.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO342/BIET342   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of ethical
comprehension, analysis, and decision-making within the context of
select theological and religious traditions
THEO 343   Contemporary Christian Sexuality   (3 Credit Hours)   
Examination of inter-religious perspectives in contemporary sexual
ethics.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO343/BIET343   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of ethical
comprehension, analysis, and decision-making within the context of
select theological and religious traditions
THEO 344   Theology and Ecology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Examination of the ecological, ethical and theological analyses of
humanity's relationship to the natural world.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO344/ESP 344/BIET344   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of ethical
comprehension, analysis, and decision-making within the context of
select theological and religious traditions
THEO 348   Supervised Ministry   (3 Credit Hours)   
Placement in a ministerial position, on-site supervision, and biweekly
individual or group meetings with the course director is required.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate how a sacramental system of
aesthetics is often embedded in cultural artifacts
THEO 349   Theological Topics for the Bioethics Capstone   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Two Science courses and two Ethics courses   
The interdisciplinary team-taught Bioethics capstone course examines
a topic in bioethics from both scientiﬁc and ethical points of view.
Topics may include bio-technologies, concepts of race and gender, the
environment, reproduction, and others. This course number provides an
elective for Theology students when the Bioethics capstone's topic is
theological.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the connection between ethical and scientiﬁc
issues with regard to the special topic in theology
THEO 350   Topics in Islam   (3 Credit Hours)   
A deeper and more focused study of signiﬁcant aspects of the religion of
Islam.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies, Islamic World
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  XTHEO350INTS387ASIA350IWS350   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of Islam

--- Page 645 ---
676  Honors/Distinction in Theology
THEO 352   Topics in Buddhism   (3 Credit Hours)   
A deeper and more focused study of signiﬁcant aspects of Buddhism.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies, Japanese Language
and Culture   
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO352/INTS352/ASIA352   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of Buddhism
THEO 353   Religious Traditions   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course investigates the historical, social, ritual and reflective
positions of one or more religious traditions. It likewise develops the
student's abilities to use contemporary methods of historical, theological,
and social scientiﬁc analysis of religious traditions.
THEO 356   Topics in Judaism   (3 Credit Hours)   
A deeper and more focused study of signiﬁcant aspects of Judaism.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of Judaism
THEO 365   Women, Gender and Embodiment in Islam   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will consider gender both as articulated in normative Islamic
religious and legal systems and as embodied during various historical
periods in a range of Muslim societies. Students will read a number
of the most important academic studies in this ﬁeld and consider
anthropological and cultural materials including ﬁlms and short stories
that disclose Muslim practices and concepts of maleness, femaleness,
and gender relations.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Arabic Language and Culture, Asian Studies,
Global Studies, Islamic World Studies, Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  THEO/ASIA/INTS/WSGS/IWS365   
THEO 366   Contemporary Islamic Thought and Movements   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course will consider contemporary Islamic thought and movements
world-wide. After a brief introduction to Islam and the historical
development of the tradition up to the present, students will learn about
a range of contemporary Muslim intellectual and activist movements and
thinkers through the study of original writings and secondary analysis.
Some major ﬁgures to be considered include: Syed Maududi, Sayyid Qutb,
Fazlur Rahman, and other Muslim intellectuals representing movements
such as Jama'at-i Islami, the Muslim Brotherhood, and Islamic liberalism.
We will focus on the 20th century up to the most current trends. Some of
the theological and social issues that will be discussed are gender, the
ideal political order, Islamic law and its role in society, and pluralism.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies, Islamic World
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO/ASIA/IWS366/INTS366A   
THEO 373   Theology Capstone   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students enrolling in this course must have junior status and be Theology
majors. This 3 credit capstone course gives students an opportunity to
integrate various aspects of their theological education, drawing upon
the major sources of Christian and Catholic tradition, including Scripture,
History, Systematic Theology, and Ethics.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the varied
sources within Christian theological traditions and how to make reasoned
theological arguments
THEO 376   Language and Faith   (3 Credit Hours)   
A cultural approach to the study of religious faith through the framework
of language.THEO 378   Theology and Culture   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course can count as an elective for the major or minor. The course
will be divided into three parts: (1) an exploration of the interaction
between theological reflection & culture; (2) a look at some theological
texts that compare Christian and non-Christian practices and practices
in the U.S. where different cultural understandings interact; (3) a study of
postmodernism.
Outcomes:
A deep level of understanding and of critical thinking with respect to the
subject matter of the course
THEO 382   Readings-Liturgy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Examination of the readings, prayers, songs, rites of contemporary
liturgies. Comparison of these materials with those of traditional liturgies
and evaluation of the underlying principles.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate how a sacramental system of
aesthetics is often embedded in cultural artifacts
THEO 383   Theology Arts & Literature   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Study of theological and religious symbols and themes in modern
literature and/or in the arts.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Catholic Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-THEO383/ENGL383/CATH383   
Outcomes:
The student who successfully completes this course will be able to
demonstrate knowledge about religion and its intersections with selected
contemporary ethical, social, political, economic, or cultural issues
THEO 392   Readings in Theology   (3 Credit Hours)   
A reading course with variable content in the area of theology. Open to
major and non-majors with permission of instructor.
THEO 393   Seminar   (3 Credit Hours)   
An undergraduate seminar course for majors and minors in the Theology
department; variable content, addressing topical issues that are not
covered by the regular offerings at the 300 level.
Outcomes:
Students will gain an in-depth understanding of a selected topic
THEO 395   Theology Tutorial   (3 Credit Hours)   
Tutorials for seniors on selected topics in biblical, systematic, historical
or moral theology.
Outcomes:
Students will gain an in-depth understanding of a selected topic
Honors/Distinction in Theology
Awards, Honors & Graduates
Undergraduate Paper Contest
Three prizes are awarded annually to encourage publication-level work in
the ﬁelds of theology and religious studies.
The Karl Rahner Award for Excellence in Theological
Studies
Awarded to the Theology Major with the highest GPA in their Major and
the highest GPA in their Academic Program, overall.
The Ninian Smart Award for Excellence in Religious
Studies
Awarded to the Religious Studies Major with the highest GPA in their
Major and the highest GPA in their Academic Program, overall.

--- Page 646 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 677
First Honors
First Honors in Theology is awarded to students with an overall GPA of
3.5 and a GPA of 3.7 in their theology courses.
Second Honors
Second Honors in Theology is awarded to students with an overall GPA of
3.3 and a GPA of 3.5 in their theology courses.
Departmental Distinction
Graduation with Departmental Distinction is awarded to students who
qualify for First Honors and who have taken two additional Theology
courses at the 300 level beyond the requirements for the major.
Certiﬁcate of Merit
This award is given to a graduating senior with an average above 3.5 in
the Theology major. No minimum overall GPA is speciﬁed.
Pastoral Leadership Minor
True to its Jesuit Catholic heritage, Loyola adheres to its promise of
preparing people to lead extraordinary lives. The Pastoral Leadership
minor provides students with academic opportunities through a
structured curriculum that supports the university’s mission of seeking
God in all things and working to expand knowledge in the service of
humanity through learning, justice and faith. Students beneﬁt from
supervised leadership and service experiences that equip them with the
knowledge and skills necessary for contemporary pastoral leadership.
The Pastoral Leadership minor affords a structured curriculum for
students from all religious traditions to gain academic capacities
commensurate with their leadership experience in Loyola’s University
Ministry and in other co-curricular and community contexts. Though the
program has its foundations in the Christian (Catholic) tradition, it is open
to all who are interested in experiencing what pastoral ministry could
mean for their future.
In particular, the minor helps students:
•Understand the foundation of Christian theology in areas such as
scripture, sacrament, ecclesiology and tradition in forming pastoral
leadership.
•Gain skills in the areas of leadership practices, social and cultural
analysis, and organizational development as applied to pastoral
leadership.
•Demonstrate an understanding of one’s faith and its call to
leadership.
•Articulate a personal pastoral theology and model of pastoral
leadership as it applies to a particular religious mission or identity.
Related Programs
Major
•Theology (BA)  (p. 682)
Minor
•Religious Studies Minor  (p. 681)
•Theology Minor  (p. 685)
Curriculum
The Pastoral Leadership Minor requires six courses. Students must
complete three courses at the 100/200 level, preferably in the areas ofChristian doctrine, Biblical Literature, and Christian Ethics, though the
ﬁnal selection is up to the individual student. Three courses at the 300-
level are required. THEO 347 Creative Ministry and THEO 348 Supervised
Ministry are required.
The pastoral leadership minor is offered by the Department of Theology
(LSC) in conjunction with the Institute for Pastoral Studies located
downtown (WTC).
Please note that students who complete the minor will also be granted
‘advanced standing’ towards a MA degree in Pastoral Studies or in Social
Justice at the Institute for Pastoral Studies should they wish to pursue a
graduate degree in one of their programs at a later date.
Requirements
Code Title Hours
A. Required Core-Level CoursesDoctrine & History of ChristianitySelect one of the following: 3THEO 100Christian TheologyTHEO 265 Sacraments and the Christian ImaginationTHEO 266Church & Global CulturesTHEO 267 Jesus ChristTHEO 279Roman CatholicismTHEO 281 Christianity Through TimeChristian EthicsSelect one of the following: 3THEO 185Christian EthicsTHEO 186 Global Religious EthicsTHEO 203Social Justice and InjusticeTHEO 204 Religious Ethics and the Ecological CrisisBiblical LiteratureSelect one of the following: 3THEO 231Hebrew Bible/Old TestamentTHEO 232 New TestamentTHEO 302Wisdom Literature and PsalmsTHEO 303 PentateuchTHEO 308Biblical Hebrew ITHEO 309 Biblical Hebrew IITHEO 311The Meaning of Jesus ChristTHEO 313 Gospels of Matthew, Mark & LukeB. Required 300-Level CoursesTHEO 300-level elective  13IPS 570Introduction to Theology and Ministry3THEO 348 /
IPS 580Supervised Ministry3Total Hours18
1This course should be tied to student's interests and courses taken at
100-level.  Consult Director of Minors for course selection.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the

--- Page 647 ---
678  Religious Studies (BA)
start term for the minor.  Students should consult the undergraduate
program director for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Freshman
FallDoctrine Course (THEO 100)3 Hours3
SpringChristian Ethics Course (THEO 185)3 Hours3
Sophomore
FallBiblical Literature Course (THEO 231)3 Hours3
Junior
FallIPS 570Introduction to Theology and Ministry3 Hours3
SpringTHEO 300-Level or higher Course3 Hours3
Senior
FallTHEO 348 
or IPS 580Supervised Ministry 
or Contextual Education I1.5-3 Hours1.5-3 Total Hours16.5-18
Transfer-Student Residency Requirement
At least 9 credit hours of PASL-MINR requirements must be completed at
Loyola.
Learning Outcomes
Students completing the Pastoral Leadership Minor should be able to:
•the sources and historical development of beliefs and practices of
Christianity with particular attention to the Roman Catholic tradition;
•the application of scholarly methods to the understanding of
scripture;
•key theological concepts and doctrines of the Christian faith (e.g.,
Christology, trinity, ecclesiology, sacramental theology, etc.);
•foundational knowledge of at least one other religious tradition
outside of Christianity.
•Demonstrate an understanding of how Christian perspectives and
sources inform responses to pressing ethical questions.
•Display basic good practices of service and leadership within a
supervised pastoral setting.
Religious Studies (BA)
Students in the ﬁeld of religious studies gain a basic knowledge of the
history, central texts (where applicable), beliefs, and practices of religious
traditions and develop skills that enable them to discern the religious
dimensions of our political, social, and cultural life.Related Programs
Major
•Theology (BA)  (p. 682)
Minor
•Pastoral Leadership Minor  (p. 677)
•Religious Studies Minor  (p. 681)
Curriculum
Students may pursue one of three tracks in the religious studies major:
•the standard major;
•an honors track; and
•an interdisciplinary studies track
The honors track is a more rigorous version of the standard major and
is intended for students seeking to pursue graduate studies in the ﬁeld
of religious studies or who plan to teach religious studies in high school.
Students in the ﬁeld of religious studies gain a basic knowledge of
the history, central texts (where applicable), beliefs, and practices of
religious traditions and develop skills that enable them to discern the
religious dimensions of our political, social, and cultural life. This new
interdisciplinary studies track is designed so that students may take
the religious literacy gained from their religious studies coursework
and relate that knowledge to other areas of study such as health,
political science and global studies, education, the various areas within
the humanities, and journalism. One course in the interdisciplinary
studies major in particular is designed to help students with this task
of relating knowledge gained from religious studies to other disciplines.
In THEO 280 , students will undertake a research project that integrates
knowledge gained from their coursework in religious studies with another
discipline.
Requirements
All major tracks require 36 hours of coursework - seven (7) required
courses and ﬁve (5) electives. At least ﬁve (5) of the 12 courses required
for the major must be at the 300-level or higher.
Code Title Hours
Christian TraditionsSelect one of the following:3
THEO 100 Christian Theology 1,2THEO 185Christian EthicsTHEO 232 New TestamentTHEO 265Sacraments and the Christian ImaginationTHEO 267 Jesus ChristTHEO 279Roman CatholicismTHEO 281 Christianity Through TimeTHEO 317Christian Thought: Ancient-MedievalTHEO 318 Christian Thought: Reformation to ModernNon-Christian TraditionsSelect three of the following: 9THEO 272JudaismTHEO 282 HinduismTHEO 295IslamTHEO 297 BuddhismTHEO 299Religions of Asia

--- Page 648 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 679
Religious Comparisons or Themes CourseSelect two of the following:6
THEO 107 Introduction to Religious StudiesTHEO 186Global Religious EthicsTHEO 278 Religion & GenderTHEO 393Seminar (various titles)Religious Studies Elective CoursesSelect ﬁve elective courses  315
Capstone 3For the Standard major:THEO 353 Religious Traditions 4
or THEO 280 Religion & Interdisciplinary StudiesFor the Honors track:THEO 353 Religious Traditions 5For the Interdisciplinary Studies track:THEO 280Religion & Interdisciplinary Studies 6Total Hours36
1Eligible students in the Standard Major and the Interdisciplinary
Studies Track  may substitute  HONR 101 Western Traditions -
Antiquity to the Middle Ages /HONR D101 Developments Western
Thought I Discussion , THEO 190 Loyola's Mission: Ignatian Traditions ,
or PHIL 190 Loyola's Mission: The Philosophical Vision  for THEO 100
Christian Theology .
2Eligible students in the  the Honors Track  may substitute  HONR 101
Western Traditions - Antiquity to the Middle Ages /HONR D101
Developments Western Thought I Discussion  for the Doctrine
requirement.
3THEO 200 level or higher. Up to three (3) courses may be taken
outside of the Theology department with prior permission from the
undergraduate program director.  For students in the  Interdisciplinary
Studies track , two 300 level electives courses must be taken in a single
discipline if outside of Theology.
4With prior approval from the undergraduate program director, students
may replace  THEO 353 Religious Traditions  with  THEO 373 Theology
Capstone . THEO 280 Religion & Interdisciplinary Studies  must be taken
as an Engaged Learning Course .
5With prior approval from the undergraduate program director, students
may replace  THEO 353  Religious Traditions  with  THEO 373  Theology
Capstone
6THEO 280  Religion & Interdisciplinary Studies  must be taken as
an Engaged Learning Course .
THEO 280 Religion & Interdisciplinary Studies  may be taken to fulﬁll a
major requirement, depending on the course topic. Please consult your
department for more information.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The Standard Major
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for the major.  Students should consult the undergraduate
program director for assistance with course selection.Course Title Hours
Freshman
Fall
Religious Comparisons Course (THEO 107) 3Religious Comparisons Course (THEO 186)3 Hours6
SpringChristian Traditions Course (200-Level or Higher)3Non-Christian Traditions Course #1 (200-Level or Higher)3 Hours6
Sophomore
Fall
Non-Christian Traditions Course #2 (200-Level or Higher) 3Non-Christian Traditions Course #3 (200-Level or Higher)3 Hours6
SpringTHEO 200-Level or Higher Elective Course3THEO 300-Level or Higher Elective Course3 Hours6
Junior
FallTHEO 300-Level or Higher Elective Course3 Hours3
SpringTHEO 300-Level or Higher Elective Course3 Hours3
Senior
FallTHEO 300-Level or Higher Elective Course3 Hours3
SpringTHEO 353Religious Traditions3 Hours3 Total Hours36
The Honors Track
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for the major.  Students should consult the undergraduate
program director for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Freshman
FallReligious Comparisons Course (THEO 107)3 Hours3
Spring
Christian Traditions Course (200-Level or higher) 3Non-Christian Traditions Course #1 (200-Level or higher)3 Hours6

--- Page 649 ---
680  Religious Studies (BA)
Sophomore
FallNon-Christian Traditions Course #2 (200-Level or Higher)3Non-Christian Traditions Course #3 (300-Level or Higher)3 Hours6
Spring
THEO 300-Level or higher Elective Course 3THEO 300-Level or higher Elective Course3 Hours6
Junior
FallTHEO 300-Level or Higher Elective Course3Religious Comparisons Course (THEO 393)3 Hours6
SpringTHEO 300-Level or Higher Elective Course3 Hours3
Senior
FallTHEO 300-Level or Higher Elective Course3 Hours3
SpringTHEO 353Religious Traditions3 Hours3 Total Hours36
1Eligible students may substitute  HONR 101  Western Traditions -
Antiquity to the Middle Ages /HONR D101  Developments Western
Thought I Discussion , THEO 190  Loyola's Mission: Ignatian
Traditions , or PHIL 190  Loyola's Mission: The Philosophical
Vision  for THEO 100  Christian Theology .
2With prior approval of UPD, up to three 300 level elective courses may
be taken from outside of the Theology department. Two 300 level
elective courses in a single discipline must be taken from courses
outside of Theology.
3THEO 280  Religion & Interdisciplinary Studies  must be taken as
an Engaged Learning Course .
The Interdisciplinary Track
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for the major.  Students should consult the undergraduate
program director for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Freshman
FallReligious Comparisons Course (THEO 107)3 Hours3
SpringNon-Christian Traditions Course #1 (200-Level or Higher)3 Hours3Sophomore
Fall
Non-Christian Traditions Course #2 (200-Level or Higher) 3Non-Christian Traditions Course #3 (200-Level or Higher)3 Hours6
SpringReligious Comparisons Course (THEO 393)3THEO 300-Level or Higher Elective Course3 Hours6
Junior
Fall
THEO 300-Level or Higher Elective Course 3Christian Traditions (THEO 317 or 318)3 Hours6
SpringTHEO 300-Level or Higher Elective Course3 Hours3
Senior
FallTHEO 300-Level or Higher Elective Course3THEO 300-Level or Higher Elective Course3 Hours6
SpringCapstone (THEO 280)3 Hours3 Total Hours36
Additional Requirements for the Honors Track
Students may apply for the Honors track after the completion of Theology
Core.  
At least a 3.5 GPA in the major and in overall coursework is required.
Transfer-Student Residency Requirement
At least 18 credit hours of RELS-BA requirements must be completed at
Loyola
Double-Dipping Policy
This department observes the CAS Double-Dipping Policy  (p. 55)
regarding unique credits required for each declared major/minor.
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN

--- Page 650 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 681
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
Students completing the major should be able to:
•Explain the history of different ways of understanding the category of
religion. [Religious Studies Major and Honors Track]
•Describe two or more religions within their particular
contexts.  [Religious Studies Major and Honors Track]
•Describe relationships between a religion and other social
contexts.  [Religious Studies Major and Honors Track]
•Describe approaches to ethics in two or more religions while noting
internal diversities.  [Religious Studies Major and Honors Track]
•Write a research paper using academic sources and methods in
religious studies.  [Religious Studies Major and Honors Track]
Religious Studies Minor
Loyola University Chicago offers a minor in Religious Studies in the
Department of Theology.
Related Programs
Major
•Religious Studies (BA)  (p. 678)
•Theology (BA)  (p. 682)
Minor
•Pastoral Leadership Minor  (p. 677)
•Theology Minor  (p. 685)
Curriculum
A minor in Religious Studies requires 6 courses taken from within
the Theology department. In addition to the three required Core-level
courses, three electives must be taken at the 300 level. Students must
study at least two (2) major world religions and take a range of other
courses.  Each program is individually tailored to ﬁt the student's plans in
consultation with the undergraduate program director.
Code Title Hours
Christian Traditions 3THEO 100Christian Theology 1THEO 185 Christian EthicsTHEO 232New TestamentTHEO 265 Sacraments and the Christian ImaginationTHEO 267Jesus ChristTHEO 279 Roman CatholicismTHEO 281Christianity Through TimeTHEO 317 Christian Thought: Ancient-MedievalTHEO 318Christian Thought: Reformation to ModernNon-Christian Religious Tradition Course 3THEO 272JudaismTHEO 282 HinduismTHEO 295IslamTHEO 297 BuddhismTHEO 299Religions of AsiaReligious Comparisons Course 3THEO 107Introduction to Religious StudiesTHEO 186 Global Religious EthicsTHEO 278Religion & GenderElectives 9Select three THEO 300-Level or Higher ElectivesTotal Hours18
1Eligible students may substitute  HONR 101 Western Traditions -
Antiquity to the Middle Ages /HONR D101 Developments Western
Thought I Discussion , THEO 190 Loyola's Mission: Ignatian Traditions ,
or PHIL 190 Loyola's Mission: The Philosophical Vision  for THEO 100
Christian Theology
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for the minor.  Students should consult the undergraduate
program director for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Freshman
FallReligious Comparisons Course (THEO 107)3 Hours3
SpringNon-Christian Traditions Course (200-Level or Higher))3 Hours3
Sophomore
FallChristian Traditions Course (THEO 200-Level Course)3 Hours3
SpringTHEO 300-Level Elective Course3 Hours3
Junior
FallTHEO 300-Level Elective Course3 Hours3
SpringTHEO 300-Level Elective Course3 Hours3 Total Hours18
Transfer-Student Residency Requirement
At least 9 credit hours of RELS-MINR requirements must be completed at
Loyola.
Double-Dipping Policy
This department observes the CAS Double-Dipping Policy  (p. 55)
regarding unique credits required for each declared major/minor.

--- Page 651 ---
682  Theology (BA)
Learning Outcomes
Students completing the Religious Studies Minor should be able to:
•Explain the history of different ways of understanding the category of
religion.
•Describe two or more religions within their particular contexts.
•Describe relationships between a religion and other social contexts.
•Describe approaches to ethics in two or more religions while noting
internal diversities.
•Write a research paper using academic sources and methods in
Religious Studies.
Theology (BA)
Loyola University Chicago offers a Bachelor of Arts degree in Theology. 
Related Programs
Major
•Religious Studies (BA)  (p. 678)
Minor
•Religious Studies Minor  (p. 681)
•Theology Minor  (p. 685)
Curriculum
Students may pursue one of three tracks in the theology major - the
standard major, an honors track, and an interdisciplinary studies track.
The honors track is a more rigorous version of the standard major and
is intended for students seeking to pursue graduate studies in the ﬁeld
of theology or who plan to teach theology in a Jesuit high school. The
interdisciplinary studies track is intended for two cohorts of students
- students seeking to integrate knowledge from another discipline into
their studies in theology; students seeking to bring knowledge from
theology into their studies in another discipline (many of whom will be
students who wish to double major in theology and another discipline).
Requir ements
The Standard theology major requires 36 hours of coursework - seven (7)
required courses and ﬁve (5) electives.
For the Standard Major,  at least ﬁve (5) of the 12 courses required for
the major must be at the 300-level or higher.   For the Honors Track and
Interdisciplinary Track,  At least seven (7) of the 12 courses required for
the major must be at the 300-level or higher.
Code Title Hours
Doctrine Course  1Select one of the following:3
THEO 100 Christian TheologyTHEO 265Sacraments and the Christian ImaginationTHEO 266 Church & Global CulturesTHEO 267Jesus ChristBible, Hebrew Bible/Old Testament CourseSelect one of the following:3
THEO 231 Hebrew Bible/Old TestamentTHEO 302Wisdom Literature and PsalmsTHEO 303 PentateuchTHEO 304Israel Conquest to ExileBible, New Testament CourseSelect one of the following:3
THEO 232 New TestamentTHEO 311The Meaning of Jesus ChristTHEO 313 Gospels of Matthew, Mark & LukeChristian Thought CourseSelect one of the following: 3THEO 317Christian Thought: Ancient-MedievalTHEO 318 Christian Thought: Reformation to ModernNon-Christian Religious Tradition CourseSelect one of the following: 3THEO 107Introduction to Religious StudiesTHEO 272 JudaismTHEO 282HinduismTHEO 295 IslamTHEO 297BuddhismTHEO 299 Religions of AsiaTHEO 350Topics in IslamTHEO 352 Topics in BuddhismTHEO 353Religious TraditionsTHEO 356 Topics in JudaismTHEO 365Women, Gender and Embodiment in IslamTHEO 366 Contemporary Islamic Thought and MovementsEthics CourseSelect one of the following: 3THEO 185Christian EthicsTHEO 186 Global Religious EthicsTHEO 203Social Justice and InjusticeTHEO 204 Religious Ethics and the Ecological CrisisTHEO 293Christian MarriageTHEO 340 Foundations of Christian MoralityTHEO 342Perspectives on Life and DeathTHEO 343 Contemporary Christian SexualityTHEO 344Theology and EcologyTheology Capstone 3For the Standard Major:  2THEO 373 Theology Capstone
or THEO 280 Religion & Interdisciplinary StudiesFor the Honors Track:  3THEO 373 Theology CapstoneFor the Interdisciplinary Studies Track:  4THEO 280 Religion & Interdisciplinary StudiesElective Credits  (p. 683)15
Select ﬁve elective courses  5Any THEO 200-level or higher courseCATH 296All Things Ignatian: Living and Learning in the
Jesuit TradTotal Hours36
1Eligible students may substitute  HONR 101 Western Traditions -
Antiquity to the Middle Ages /HONR D101 Developments Western
Thought I Discussion  for Doctrine requirement.

--- Page 652 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 683
2With prior approval from the undergraduate program director, students
may replace THEO 373 Theology Capstone  or THEO 280 Religion &
Interdisciplinary Studies  (Engaged Learning) with THEO 353 Religious
Traditions . THEO 280  Religion & Interdisciplinary Studies  must be taken
as an  Engaged Learning Course .
3With prior approval from the undergraduate program director, students
may replace THEO 373 Theology Capstone  with THEO 353 Religious
Traditions .
4THEO 280  Religion & Interdisciplinary Studies must be taken as
an Engaged Learning Course.
5With prior approval from the undergraduate program director, up to
two 200 level or above elective courses may be taken outside the
Department of Theology.  Courses used for other Theology major
requirements cannot be used as electives.
Elective Courses
Listing of 200-Level and 300-Level THEO Courses
Code Title Hours
THEO 203 Social Justice and Injustice 3THEO 204Religious Ethics and the Ecological Crisis3
THEO 231 Hebrew Bible/Old Testament 3THEO 232New Testament3
THEO 265 Sacraments and the Christian Imagination 3THEO 266Church & Global Cultures3
THEO 267 Jesus Christ 3THEO 272Judaism3
THEO 276 Black World Religion 3THEO 278Religion & Gender3
THEO 279 Roman Catholicism 3THEO 280Religion & Interdisciplinary Studies3
THEO 281 Christianity Through Time 3THEO 282Hinduism3
THEO 293 Christian Marriage 3THEO 295Islam3
THEO 297 Buddhism 3THEO 299Religions of Asia3
THEO 302 Wisdom Literature and Psalms 3THEO 303Pentateuch3
THEO 304 Israel Conquest to Exile 3THEO 308Biblical Hebrew I3
THEO 309 Biblical Hebrew II 3THEO 311The Meaning of Jesus Christ3
THEO 313 Gospels of Matthew, Mark & Luke 3THEO 317Christian Thought: Ancient-Medieval3
THEO 318 Christian Thought: Reformation to Modern 3THEO 330Liberation Theology3
THEO 331 Theology of Secularization 3THEO 340Foundations of Christian Morality3
THEO 342 Perspectives on Life and Death 3THEO 343Contemporary Christian Sexuality3
THEO 344 Theology and Ecology 3THEO 348Supervised Ministry3
THEO 349 Theological Topics for the Bioethics Capstone 3THEO 350Topics in Islam3THEO 352 Topics in Buddhism 3THEO 353Religious Traditions3
THEO 356 Topics in Judaism 3THEO 365Women, Gender and Embodiment in Islam3
THEO 366 Contemporary Islamic Thought and Movements 3THEO 373Theology Capstone3
THEO 376 Language and Faith 3THEO 378Theology and Culture3
THEO 382 Readings-Liturgy 3THEO 383Theology Arts & Literature1-3
THEO 392 Readings in Theology 3THEO 393Seminar3
THEO 395 Theology Tutorial 3
Additional Requirements for the Honors Track
Students may apply for the Honors track after the completion of Theology
Core.
At least a 3.5 GPA in the major and in overall coursework is required.
Both Christian Thought 317 and 318 are required.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The Standard Major
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for the major.  Students should consult the undergraduate
program director for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Freshman
Fall
Doctrine Course (THEO 100) 3Ethics Course (THEO 185)3 Hours6
SpringNon-Christian Traditions Course3Hebrew Bible/Old Testament or New Testament Course3 Hours6
Sophomore
Fall
New Testament or Old Testament/Hebrew Bible Course 3THEO 200-Level or higher Course3 Hours6
SpringTHEO 200-Level or higher Course3THEO 300-Level or higher Course3 Hours6
Junior
FallTHEO 300-Level or Higher Course3 Hours3
Spring
Christian Thought Course 3

--- Page 653 ---
684  Theology (BA)THEO 317 
or THEO 318Christian Thought: Ancient-Medieval 
or Christian Thought: Reformation to
Modern  Hours3
Senior
FallTHEO 300-Level or higher Course3 Hours3
SpringTHEO 373 
or THEO 280Theology Capstone 
or Religion & Interdisciplinary Studies3 Hours3 Total Hours36
Honors Track
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for the major.  Students should consult the undergraduate
program director for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Freshman
Fall
Doctrine Course  THEO 100Christian Theology3
Ethics Course  THEO 185Christian Ethics3 Hours6
SpringNon-Christian Traditions Course3Hebrew Bible/Old Testament or New Testament Course3 Hours6
Sophomore
Fall
New Testament or Old Testament/Hebrew Bible Course 3THEO 300 Level or Higher Course3 Hours6
SpringTHEO 300-Level or Higher Course3THEO 300-Level or Higher Course3 Hours6
Junior
Fall
Christian Thought Course 3THEO 317 
or THEO 318Christian Thought: Ancient-Medieval 
or Christian Thought: Reformation to
Modern3 Hours6
SpringChristian Thought Course THEO 317 
or THEO 318Christian Thought: Ancient-Medieval 
or Christian Thought: Reformation to
Modern3 Hours3
Senior
FallTHEO 300-Level or Higher Course  13 Hours3
Spring
Theology Capstone  THEO 373Theology Capstone3 Hours3 Total Hours39
Interdisciplinary Studies Track
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for the major.  Students should consult the undergraduate
program director for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Freshman
Fall
Doctrine Course  THEO 100Christian Theology3
Ethics Course  THEO 185Christian Ethics3 Hours6
SpringNon-Christian Traditions Course3Hebrew Bible/Old Testament or New Testament Course3 Hours6
Sophomore
Fall
New Testament or Old Testament/Hebrew Bible Course 3THEO 300 Level or Higher Course3 Hours6
SpringInterdisciplinary Studies Course3
THEO 280 Religion & Interdisciplinary Studies  THEO 300-Level or Higher Course3 Hours6
Junior
FallTHEO 300-Level or Higher Course3 Hours3
SpringChristian Thought Course3THEO 317 
or THEO 318Christian Thought: Ancient-Medieval 
or Christian Thought: Reformation to
Modern  Hours3

--- Page 654 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 685
Senior
Fall300-Level or Higher Course Outside of Major3 Hours3
Spring300-Level or Higher Course Outside of Major3 Hours3 Total Hours36
Transfer-Student Residency Requirement
At least 18 credit hours of THEO-BA requirements must be completed at
Loyola
Double-Dipping Policy
This department observes the CAS Double-Dipping Policy  (p. 55)
regarding unique credits required for each declared major/minor.
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
Students completing the major should be able to:
•Accurately describe basic sources and historical development of
beliefs and practices of Christianity, with a particular focus on the
Roman Catholic tradition. [Standard Theology Major and Honors
Track]
•Analyze a biblical text using academic tools.  [Standard Theology
Major and Honors Track]
•Compare at least two different approaches to basic theological
concepts.  [Standard Theology Major and Honors Track]
•Describe beliefs and practices of one religion other than
Christianity.  [Standard Theology Major and Honors Track]
•Name the four sources of Christian ethics: Scripture, tradition, reason,
and experience.  [Standard Theology Major and Honors Track]
•Analyze and critically evaluate arguments from at least two different
Christian ethicists on a contemporary ethical issue.  [Standard
Theology Major and Honors Track]
•Demonstrate knowledge of the sources and historical development
of beliefs and practices of Christianity with particular attention to the
Roman Catholic tradition.  [Interdisciplinary Studies Track]•Demonstrate foundational knowledge of at least one other religious
tradition outside of Christianity.  [Interdisciplinary Studies Track]
•Demonstrate foundational knowledge of one other discipline outside
of theology.  [Interdisciplinary Studies Track]
•Demonstrate familiarity with a key theological concept or doctrine of
the Christian faith (e.g., Christology, trinity, theological anthropology,
ecclesiology, sacramental theology, etc.) and explain how knowledge
from a different discipline has affected the understanding and
formulation of that doctrine.  [Interdisciplinary Studies Track]
•Demonstrate an understanding of how Christian perspectives and
sources inform responses to pressing ethical questions and how
knowledge gained from a different discipline is integrated into the
analysis of the pressing question and the response.  [Interdisciplinary
Studies Track]
•Complete a research project or internship experience which
undertakes the tasks listed in either learning outcome #4 or
#5.  [Interdisciplinary Studies Track] 
Theology Minor
Loyola University Chicago offers a minor in Theology.
Related Programs
Major
•Theology (BA)  (p. 682)
Minor
•Pastoral Leadership Minor  (p. 677)
•Religious Studies Minor  (p. 681)
Curriculum
A minor in Theology requires 6 courses taken from within the Theology
department. In addition to the three required Core-level courses, three
electives must be taken at the 300 level. The three (3) Core-level courses
must be selected from at least two (2) of the six areas listed below.
Code Title Hours
Core-Level CoursesSelect three core-level courses from at least two of the areas listed
below:9
Doctrine:  1THEO 100Christian TheologyTHEO 265 Sacraments and the Christian ImaginationTHEO 266Church & Global CulturesTHEO 267 Jesus ChristBible, Hebrew Bible/Old TestamentTHEO 231 Hebrew Bible/Old TestamentTHEO 302Wisdom Literature and PsalmsTHEO 303 PentateuchTHEO 304Israel Conquest to ExileBible, New TestamentTHEO 232New TestamentTHEO 311 The Meaning of Jesus ChristTHEO 313Gospels of Matthew, Mark & LukeChristian Thought CourseTHEO 317Christian Thought: Ancient-Medieval

--- Page 655 ---
686  Urban Studies Interdisciplinary Program
THEO 318 Christian Thought: Reformation to ModernNon-Christian Religious Tradition CourseTHEO 107 Introduction to Religious StudiesTHEO 272JudaismTHEO 282 HinduismTHEO 295IslamTHEO 297 BuddhismTHEO 299Religions of AsiaTHEO 350 Topics in IslamTHEO 352Topics in BuddhismTHEO 353 Religious TraditionsTHEO 356Topics in JudaismTHEO 365 Women, Gender and Embodiment in IslamTHEO 366Contemporary Islamic Thought and MovementsEthics CourseTHEO 185Christian EthicsTHEO 186 Global Religious EthicsTHEO 203Social Justice and InjusticeTHEO 204 Religious Ethics and the Ecological CrisisTHEO 293Christian MarriageTHEO 340 Foundations of Christian MoralityTHEO 342Perspectives on Life and DeathTHEO 343 Contemporary Christian SexualityTHEO 344Theology and EcologyRequired ElectivesSelect three THEO 300-level electives9Total Hours18
1Eligible students may substitute  HONR 101  Western Traditions -
Antiquity to the Middle Ages /HONR D101  Developments Western
Thought I Discussion  for Doctrine requirement.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion
of requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as
the start term for the minor. Students should consult the undergraduate
program director for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Freshman
FallCore Level Course (THEO 100)3 Hours3
SpringCore Level Course (THEO 185)3 Hours3
Sophomore
FallCore Level Course (THEO 200-Level Course)3 Hours3SpringTHEO 300-Level Elective Course3 Hours3
Junior
FallTHEO 300-Level Elective Course3 Hours3
SpringTHEO 300-Level Elective Course3 Hours3 Total Hours18
Transfer-Student Residency Requirement
At least 9 credit hours of THEO-MINR requirements must be completed at
Loyola.
Double-Dipping Policy
This department observes the CAS Double-Dipping Policy  (p. 55)
regarding unique credits required for each declared major/minor.
Learning Outcomes
Students completing the Theology Minor should be able to:
•Accurately describe basic sources and historical development of
beliefs and practices of Christianity, with a particular focus on the
Roman Catholic tradition. 
•Analyze a biblical text using academic tools.
•Compare at least two different approaches to basic theological
concepts.
•Analyze and critically evaluate arguments from at least two different
Christian ethicists on a contemporary ethical issue. 
•Describe beliefs and practices of one religion other than Christianity.
Urban Studies Interdisciplinary
Program
Seeking Solutions to Pressing Urban Issues in Partnership with Chicago
Communities.
The Urban Studies minor provides students with a unique opportunity to
gain an understanding of how a city works. An interdisciplinary program
of the College of Arts and Sciences, Urban Studies combines coursework
in ﬁelds like sociology, psychology, history, philosophy, criminal justice,
economy, environmental studies, and political science. Not only do
students study social, political, economic, and cultural institutions in
Chicago (and beyond), but they also get involved in research projects with
community organizations seeking solutions to pressing urban issues.
The minor consists of two tracks:
•General Track  (p. 687): Receive a broad introduction to themes and
issues such as urban politics and community life, as well as racial,
ethnic, and economic inequality.
•Environmental Sustainability Track  (p. 688): Focus on both
sustainability in the social world (e.g. health, housing, education, jobs,
and community) and in the physical environment (e.g. water, air, and
soil).

--- Page 656 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 687
Undergraduate Programs
•Urban Studies Minor  (p. 687)
•Urban Studies Sustainability Minor  (p. 688)
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Urban Studies (URB) 
URB 125   Chicago-Growth of a Metropolis   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores the development of Chicago metropolitan region
from the 1830's to the present day. Students will explore the urban area
not only through texts, but also through ﬁeldwork.
Course equivalencies:  SOCL125/URB125   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of the geogr aphy,
history and people of the Chicago metropolitan region
URB 201   Social Welfare Policy & Services I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  sophomore standing   
Analysis of institutional structures of welfare as they relate to social
problems. Selected major values and interests in American society are
used to analyze the social welfare institution. Students will be able to
describe and analyze current social welfare policies and social services
within a historical, societal and political context.
Course equivalencies:  SOWK201/URB201   
URB 234   City, Suburbs & Beyond   (3 Credit Hours)   
Study of the historical emergence of cities, focusing on the ecological,
demographic, and organizational processes involved in the continuing
growth and change of metropolitan areas and in the relationship of a
metropolitan area to the surrounding region.
Course equivalencies:  X-SOCL234/URB234   
Outcomes:
Students will understand fundamental facts and theories about the
character and development of cities and urban regions
URB 320   Urban Economics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing, minimum grade of "C-" in ECON 201
and 202   
This course analyzes the economic role and functioning of cities and
examines urban issues such as real estate markets, transportation,
economic development, and crime.
Course equivalencies:  X-ECON320/URB320   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the economic forces that shape urban
agglomerations; Students will understand the economic and ethical
trade-offs of various urban economic policies; They will be able to think
critically about the economic forces that make a city grow and contract
over time
URB 352   Gang Activity & Control   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course examines the emergence of street gangs in American
society with a view toward understanding their structure, characteristics,
purpose and activities, and reviews and evaluates prevention and control
strategies.
Course equivalencies:  CRMJ352/URB352   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the causes of
street gangs, the methods used to control street gangs, and the impact of
street gang activity on society and the criminal justice systemURB 354   Chicago Justice: Criminal Justice System Cook County   (3
Credit Hours)   
This course provides a comprehensive examination of the organization
and functions of the criminal and juvenile justice systems/agencies in
Cook County - the largest jurisdiction of its kind in the U.S.
Course equivalencies:  CRMJ354/URB354   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to describe the organization, functioning, and
challenges facing the justice system and agencies within Cook C ounty,
and discuss how this system relates to criminal justice agencies at the
state and federal level
URB 370   Cultural Diversity   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior Standing   
This course examines economic, social, institutional and politi cal forces
that shape the experiences and life chances of persons within Asian,
Latino, and Native American cultures. Social and economic justice
in relation to diversity will be explored. Students will understand the
relevance of diversity to social work values and interventions.
Course equivalencies:  ASIA/SOWK/URB370/AFR369/SOWK50   
URB 385   The History of Chicago   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course surveys the history of Chicago from its origins to the present,
using the city as a case study of American urbanization.
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST385/URB385   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate historical knowledge of Ch icago's
environmental, economic, social, cultural, and political history, to draw
links between race relations and urban change, and to develop critical
thinking and communication skills
URB 386   American Urban History   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the process and impact of urbanization in North
America from the Precolumbian era to the twenty-ﬁrst century.
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST386/URB386   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate historical knowledge of the
environmental, economic, social, cultural, and political history of North
American cities and develop critical thinking and communication skills
URB 397   Urban Studies Research   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior or Senior standing   
In Urban Studies Research, undergraduates work on collaborative,
community-based research projects through CURL (Center for Urban
Research and Learning). The research teams include graduate students,
faculty, and community leaders. This course must be taken concurrently
with SOC/PLSC 335 Students will contribute to a research project that
addresses inequities in urban communities.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Urban Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  X-PLSC397/URB397   
Urban Studies Minor
Seeking Solutions to Pressing Urban Issues in Partnership with Chicago
Communities.
The Urban Studies minor provides students with a unique opportunity to
gain an understanding of how a city works. An interdisciplinary program
of the College of Arts and Sciences, Urban Studies combines coursework
in ﬁelds like sociology, psychology, history, philosophy, criminal justice,
economy, environmental studies, and political science. Not only do
students study social, political, economic, and cultural institutions in

--- Page 657 ---
688  Urban Studies Sustainability Minor
Chicago (and beyond), but they also get involved in research projects with
community organizations seeking solutions to pressing urban issues.
The distinctive capstone of the minor consists of two courses: Urban
Studies Seminar and Urban Studies Research. In the seminar, students
learn about contemporary urban policy from readings, discussions,
guest speakers, and neighborhood tours. In the research course,
students contribute to a community-based, collaborative research project
(housed at the  Center for Urban Research and Learning – CURL  (https://
www.luc.edu/curl/ )) where they work with graduate students, faculty,
community organizations, and government agencies.
Related Programs
Minor
•Race Ethnicity Interdisciplinary Minor  (p. 655)
•Sociology Minor  (p. 668)
•Urban Studies Sustainability Minor  (p. 688)
Curriculum
The General track gives students a broad introduction into themes and
issues within the broader ﬁeld of Urban Studies. As an interdisciplinary
minor, students in the General track are able to select from several
disciplinary lenses to better understand urban areas and the issues
they face. In addition, students will – in the capstone research course
– contribute to active solutions to many of the issues facing local
communities.
Course Requirements
Code Title Hours
Urban TheorySelect one of the following:3
ECON 320 Urban EconomicsHIST 386Creation the American MetropolisPLSC 334 Urban Policies and ProblemsPLSC 390Urban PoliticsSOCL 234 City, Suburbs & BeyondResearch MethodsSelect one of the following: 3ANTH 317Ethnographic MethodsCJC 205 Research MethodsCOMM 365Naturalistic Methods Communication ResearchCOMM 366 Observing/Measuring Cmun BehaviorCOMM 367Rhetorical CriticismPSYC 306 Research Methods in PsychologySOCL 206Principles of Social ResearchSOWK 390 Research and Evaluation in Social Work PracticeRequired Electives  1Select two of the following: 6ANTH 309Urban AnthropologyCJC 371 VictimologyCJC 352GangsCJC 372 Race, Ethnicity, and Criminal JusticeCOMM 296Themes in Advertising/Public RelationsCOMM 371 Special Topics Communication Studies
(Interviewing for Broadcast)COMM 371Special Topics Communication Studies (Politics
and the Press)COMM 371 Special Topics Communication Studies
(Photojournalism)ECON 320Urban EconomicsELPS 240 Urban Education: Policy and PracticeENVS 380Introduction to Geographic Information SystemsFNAR 203 Chicago: Face of a CityHIST 300Topics in HistoryHIST 318C London 1550 - 1715HIST 385Chicago in AmericaHIST 386 Creation the American MetropolisPLSC 300Contemporary Political IssuesPLSC 372 Crime, Race & ViolencePLSC 390Urban PoliticsPSYC 374 Community PsychologySOCL 125Chicago: Urban MetropolisSOCL 234 City, Suburbs & BeyondSOCL 235Communities in a Global AgeSOWK 361 Special Topics (Black Men in America)SOWK 370Power, Oppression, Privilege, and Social JusticeTHEO 192 Topics in Moral Problems (Urban Issues)Capstone CoursesCourses taken concurrently.SOCL 335 /
PLSC 335Urban Semester Seminar3URB 397 /
PLSC 397Urban Studies Research3Total Hours18
1Other elective courses may be added on a semester-by-semester basis.
Please confer with program director.
Double Dipping Policy
Urban Studies follows the College policy for Double Dipping: Not less
than 8 credit hours in the individual student’s transcript must be unique
to each minor; that is, the courses in question are considered as actually
fulﬁlling requirements of one minor, not of more than one minor or major.
Learning Outcomes
Students in the Urban Studies minor will:
•Understand the major developments, conflicts, and events that have
shaped urban life
•Contribute to active solutions to many of the issues facing local
communities
•Recognize the roots of urban social problems
•Develop a deeper understanding of the methods researchers use to
study urban life
Urban Studies Sustainability Minor
Seeking Solutions to Pressing Urban Issues in Partnership with Chicago
Communities.

--- Page 658 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 689
The Urban Studies minor provides students with a unique opportunity to
gain an understanding of how a city works. An interdisciplinary program
of the College of Arts and Sciences, Urban Studies combines coursework
in ﬁelds like sociology, psychology, history, philosophy, criminal justice,
economy, environmental studies, and political science. Not only do
students study social, political, economic, and cultural institutions in
Chicago (and beyond), but they also get involved in research projects with
community organizations seeking solutions to pressing urban issues.
The distinctive capstone of the minor consists of two courses: Urban
Studies Seminar and Urban Studies Research. In the seminar, students
learn about contemporary urban policy from readings, discussions,
guest speakers, and neighborhood tours. In the research course,
students contribute to a community-based, collaborative research project
(housed at the  Center for Urban Research and Learning – CURL  (https://
www.luc.edu/curl/ )) where they work with graduate students, faculty,
community organizations, and government agencies.
Related Programs
Minor
•Race Ethnicity Interdisciplinary Minor  (p. 655)
•Sociology Minor  (p. 668)
•Urban Studies Minor  (p. 687)
Curriculum
A minor in the urban studies sustainability track requires 18 credits after
prerequisites are met. 
Prerequisites: Students should have completed their two Core Scientiﬁc
Literacy courses, including the Foundational Core Scientiﬁc Literacy
course, which is environmentally based. Information about the CAS core
science requirements can be found here.  (http://www.luc.edu/core/
scilitcoursesub-ﬁrst.shtml/ )
Course Requirements
Code Title Hours
Urban TheorySelect one of the following:3
ECON 320 Urban EconomicsHIST 386Creation the American MetropolisPLSC 334 Urban Policies and ProblemsPLSC 390Urban PoliticsSOCL 234 City, Suburbs & BeyondResearch MethodsSelect one of the following: 3ANTH 317Ethnographic MethodsCJC 205 Research MethodsCOMM 365Naturalistic Methods Communication ResearchCOMM 366 Observing/Measuring Cmun BehaviorCOMM 367Rhetorical CriticismPSYC 306 Research Methods in PsychologySOCL 206Principles of Social ResearchSOWK 390 Research and Evaluation in Social Work PracticeGroup A: Sustainability and the Social World  1Select one of the following: 3ANTH 104The Human Ecological FootprintCOMM 306 Environmental AdvocacyCOMM 371Special Topics Communication Studies 2PLSC 392 Environmental PoliticsSOCL 265Globalization & SocietySOCL 272 Environmental SociologySOCL 275The Sociology of ConsumptionSOCL 276 The Sociology and Politics of FoodSOCL 280Topics in Contemporary Sociology 2SOWK 361 Special Topics 2Group B: Sustainability and the Physical World  1Select one of the following: 3ENVS 207Plants and CivilizationENVS 218 Biodiversity & BiogeographyENVS 223Soil EcologyENVS 224 Climate & Climate ChangeENVS 283Environmental SustainabilityENVS 380 Introduction to Geographic Information SystemsCapstone CoursesCourses taken concurrently.SOCL 335 /
PLSC 335Urban Semester Seminar3URB 397 /
PLSC 397Urban Studies Research3Total Hours18
1Other elective courses may be added on a semester by semester basis.
  Please confer with department if questions.
2Variable topics course that may be approved by the Program Director of
the Urban Studies Interdisciplinary Program.
3Open to seniors (subject to approval by instructor)
Double Dipping Policy
Urban Studies follows the College policy for Double Dipping: Not less
than 8 credit hours in the individual student’s transcript must be unique
to each minor; that is, the courses in question are considered as actually
fulﬁlling requirements of one minor, not of more than one minor or major.
Learning Outcomes
With more than 8 million people, the Chicago Metropolitan area reflects
the many complexities of urban life. Problems and solutions in the realm
of politics, social life, education, and economics present themselves in a
variety of subtle and not-so-subtle ways. Students in the Urban Studies
minor will:
•Understand the major developments, conflicts, and events that have
shaped urban life
•Contribute to active solutions to many of the issues facing local
communities
•Recognize the roots of urban social problems
•Develop a deeper understanding of the methods researchers use to
study urban life
•Appreciate the links among social and physical dimensions of the
urban environment (Environmental Sustainability Track)

--- Page 659 ---
690  Women's Studies and Gender Studies
•Gain an understanding of sustainable policy solutions that bridge
social science and natural science approaches (Environmental
Sustainability Track)
Women's Studies and Gender Studies
Our mission is to introduce students to feminist scholarship and gender
theory across the disciplines and the professional schools; to provide
innovative, challenging, and thoughtful approaches to learning; and to
promote social justice. The 2024-25 academic year marks our 45th year
at Loyola.
The WSGS program is interdisciplinary, offering many cross-listed
courses in the humanities, social sciences, and other disciplines.
Additionally, we offer a dual-degree program at the graduate level
in conjunction with the School of Social Work and actively pursue
collaborations with other programs. WSGS faculty seek to integrate
knowledge about women, gender, and sexuality into the theories and
practices of various disciplines and professions across the university.
To contact us, click here  (wsgsprogram@luc.edu ).
Mission
•To promote deeper understandings of feminist scholarship and
gender theory across the humanities, social sciences, and applied
professions. 
•To provide innovative, challenging, and thoughtful approaches to
teaching and learning for both students and faculty.
•To acknowledge and honor the diversity of our human community—
especially regarding gender, race, class, and sexuality—while working
toward social justice.
•To build and cultivate a community of scholars who are supportive of
one another and who carry out our mission in daily practice.
Undergraduate Programs
•Women's Studies and Gender Studies (BA)  (p. 692)
•Women's Studies and Gender Studies Minor  (p. 694)
Women's Studies and Gender Studies
Program Policies
Double Dipping Policy
Per recommendations from the CAS's Academic Council, WSGS will
adhere to and enforce the following policies:
•Students may not major and minor in the same discipline.
•Majors: Not less than 21 credit hours in the individual student’s
transcript must be unique to each major; that is, the courses in
question are considered as actually fulﬁlling requirements of one
major, not of more than one major.
•Minors and interdisciplinary minors: not less than 8 credit hours in
the individual student’s transcript must be unique to each minor;
that is, the courses in question are considered as actually fulﬁlling
requirements of one minor, not of more than one minor or major.
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.Women's and Gender Studies (WSGS)
Courses
WSGS 101   Introduction to WSGS from a Global Perspective   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This is an introduction to the interdisciplinary ﬁelds of both Women's
Studies and Gender Studies which explore the ways that sex and
gender manifest themselves in social, cultural, and political arenas.
It draws upon scholarship in women's studies, masculinities studies,
and queer studies which themselves draw upon a variety of intellectual
perspectives, including historical, psychological, rhetorical, sociological,
literary, and biological.
Knowledge Area:  Foundational Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
students will demonstrate understanding of historical developments,
key concepts, theories and themes in women's studies and gender
studies, the impact that gender can have on social, cultural, political and
economic material conditions
WSGS 201   Contemporary Issues in WSGS   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100, PLSC 102, PSYC 100, SOCL 101, WSGS 101, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course explores issues in women's studies, feminism, and gender
studies from the perspective of a particular discipline, depending on
the faculty member teaching the course. This may, for example, include
Communication, English, History, Sociology, or Theology.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  WOST201/WSGS201   
Outcomes:
Students will examine the subjects of women and gender, as well as
the challenges of conducting feminist or gender scholarship, within the
discipline and how new research changes or transforms that scholarship
WSGS 297   Topics in WSGS   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course allows students to explore intermediate courses or seminars
focused on the intersection of gender, sexuality, race, class, and other
categories of power, privilege, and oppression.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
WSGS 330   History of Feminist Thought and Social Action   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course focuses on the history and development of feminist thought
and activism since the late eighteenth century. Attention goes beyond
just U.S. and European feminist history, exploring Indigenous, Black, and
postcolonial feminism to investigate their unique feminist ideas and the
challenges they pose to "traditional" feminist thought and action.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X - WSGS 330 / HIST 339F   
Outcomes:
Students will learn to identify key concepts, thinkers, activists; analyze
and critique some of the major works; and develop an integrated
understanding of the history of feminist thought, broadly conceived

--- Page 660 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 691
WSGS 350   Global Feminisms   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  WSGS 101 or WSGS 201   
This course offers critical and theoretical tools to evaluate feminist
theories by women of color in the global South. Adopting a decolonial,
anti-racist approach, the course evaluates how women and gender
relations are affected by economic, cultural, and political changes related
to the racial regimes of globalization and migratory movements.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will acquire and utilize key theoretical concepts in the
study of feminisms, race theory, border studies, postcolonial studies,
transnationalism, and migration studies
WSGS 360   Migration, Identity, Sexuality   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  WSGS 101 or WSGS 201   
In this seminar WSGS course we will explore how crossing borders,
identity politics, and sexuality intersect to produce a rich and necessary
conversation on contemporary global immigration issues. We will explore
the gendered dynamics and experiences of recent immigrants.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
Acquire and utilize key theoretical concepts in the study of borders,
identity politics, transnationalism, and sexuality from an intersectional
lens
WSGS 370   Sexual Assault Advocacy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  WSGS 101 or WSGS 201   
This course provides speciﬁc skills of support and advocacy services
to sexual assault survivors. Students will gain an understanding of the
impact of sexual assault on victims, the social and cultural context in
which sexual assault occurs, and the roles systems play to both support
and inhibit survivors recovery.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
Students who successfully complete the course may be eligible to serve
as Loyola University Chicago sexual assault advocates
WSGS 375   Masculinity Studies: Equity, Race, Transformation   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  WSGS 101   
This course highlights the intersectional exploration of how masculinity
is embodied, experienced, and replicated in the United States
and globally. With this transnational lens, students gain a better
understanding of contemporary global masculinity sociocultural issues
and concerns which include race/racism, "angry white men, " and the
"crisis of masculinity. "
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  WSGS 375/WSGS 475   
Outcomes:
Students will acquire and utilize key theoretical concepts in Masculinity
studies from an international lens; Students will apply a wide critical
terminology to literary texts and visual/cultural phenomena globallyWSGS 380   Queer Theory: Beyond the Binary   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  WSGS 101 or 201   
This course maps the ﬁeld of Queer Theory from an interdisciplinary,
global perspective in order to cover a wide range of theoretical
and disciplinary approaches (race theory, transnational theory,
postmodernism, Latinx-American Studies, among others) and
interpretative applications (ﬁlm, literature).
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to identify key concepts and thinkers of this
influential ﬁeld of study; they will develop an intersectional, global
understanding of this ﬁeld of critical theory
WSGS 388   Women's Studies Practicum   (3 Credit Hours)   
This supervised ﬁeld experience uses experiential learning at a wide
variety uses experiential learning at a variety of women's political, cultural
or educational organization as the basis for learning and reﬁning skills
which cab beneﬁt gender equity.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  WOST388/WSGS388   
Outcomes:
Students demonstrate skill proﬁciency, professional conduct, and
systematic reflection on their experience; Students learn about public and
private sector responses to women's issues and concerns
WSGS 389   Independent Study   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
This course consists of independent research or engaged learning in a
speciﬁc area of WSGS; work must be completed under the supervision of
a WSGS faculty member.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain a deeper understanding of a speciﬁc WSGS topic
through research, service, reading, or other mode of learning; The product
of this work will vary depending on the interests of the student
WSGS 390   Directed Readings Women Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
An independent program of reading and research arranged between
the student and the supervising faculty member in the student's major
department. Students will complete a ﬁnal research project integrating
their major ﬁelds with women's studies. Permission of women's studies
director is required.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  WOST390/WSGS390   
WSGS 391   WSGS Methodologies   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  WSGS 101 or WSGS 201, and WSGS 330   
This course is part of a two-semester sequence for the ﬁnal year of the
WSGS major and minor. In this course we review several approaches to
feminist research methods and consider ways to put them into practice,
individually or combined with other methods. Enrollment by permission.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will produce a project proposal that (1) demonstrates an
interdisciplinary approach; (2) draws on theory and scholarship in WSGS;
and (3) reflects the use of feminist methodologies in practice

--- Page 661 ---
692  Women's Studies and Gender Studies (BA)
WSGS 397   Special Topics in WSGS   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course allows students to explore advanced courses or seminars
focused on the intersection of gender, sexuality, race, class, and other
categories of power, privilege, and oppression.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
Course equivalencies:  WOST397/WSGS397   
Outcomes:
Students demonstrate an understanding of a unique topic in wome n's
studies
WSGS 398   Women's Studies Internship   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course uses supervised project-based experiential learning to allow
students the opportunity to apply feminist analysis and practical skills to
a student-designed project that will be completed within the timeframe of
a course term.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  WOST398/WSGS398   
Outcomes:
Students learn application of feminist concepts and principles to
pragmatic outcomes; leadership, planning, time management, and
assessment skills
WSGS 399   WSGS Capstone   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  WSGS 330 and WSGS 391; Enrollment by permission   
This is a project-oriented course that represents the culmination of
the WSGS major. Students build on their work in WSGS 391/WSGS
Methodologies to complete a project under the direction of a faculty or
community organization mentor, either individually or as a group.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  WOST399/WSGS399   
Outcomes:
Students will complete a project that (1) demonstrates an
interdisciplinary approach; (2) draws on theory and scholarship in WSGS;
and (3) reflects the intentional use of feminist methodologies in practice
Women's Studies and Gender Studies
(BA)
The WSGS BA program provides students with a broad and deep
understanding of feminist scholarship and gender theory from an
interdisciplinary perspective. Through the WSGS lens of intersectionality,
students acquire analytical skills that enable them to see the world
in new ways and offer innovative solutions to social and theoretical
problems. Service-learning courses, internships, and capstone projects
provide opportunities to link theory and practice and advocate for social
justice.
Many students combine the WSGS major with a major or minor in
another discipline to further hone their skills in that area and integrate
their learning in innovative ways. The BA program also provides a
robust list of elective options in other disciplines, such as Anthropology,
English, History, Psychology, Sociology, and Theology (among others)
that enhance the foundational curriculum. In these ways, the program
sustains its interdisciplinary character, honors diversity, and continually
builds a community of scholars who collaborate and support one another.
Our graduates go on to fulﬁlling careers in education, law, medicine, the
non-proﬁt sector, and a number of other ﬁelds.Related Programs
Minor
•Women's Studies and Gender Studies Minor  (p. 694)
Curriculum
The WSGS major can be declared at any time. You may major in WSGS
with or without a second major. The major consists of 36 hours, or 12
courses. A total of at least 21 hours (7 courses) must be at th e 300 level
or higher. Courses are designated as follows:
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesWSGS 101Introduction to WSGS from a Global Perspective3
WSGS 201 Contemporary Issues in WSGS 3WSGS 330History of Feminist Thought and Social Action3
WSGS 391 WSGS Methodologies 3WSGS 398Women's Studies Internship (or cross-listed
service learning course)3
WSGS 399 WSGS Capstone 3TheorySelect one of the following: 3PLSC 312Feminist TheoryENGL 307 Topics in Feminist and Gender StudiesWSGS 380Queer Theory: Beyond the BinaryElectivesSelect ﬁve (5) elective courses from WSGS and cross-listed offerings
with at least 2 of these at the 300 level.  (p. 692)15Total Hours36
Interdisciplinary Elective Courses
These are courses outside of the Women's Studies and Gender
Studies (WSGS) program that permanently count toward elective
requirements.  For a full list of WSGS courses, click here  (p. 2949 ). 
There may also be courses that are temporarily tagged to count toward
interdisciplinary elective requirements.  These can be found in LOCUS
(https://locus.luc.edu ) in the class schedule for each academic term.
Code Title Hours
ANTH 106 Sex, Science and Anthropological Inquiry 3ANTH 203Violence, Social Suffering, and Justice3
ANTH 205 Gender in Cross-Cultural Perspective 3ANTH 245Gender in Deep Time3
ANTH 307 The Body and Culture 3ANTH 346Biology of Women3
BIOL 346 Biology of Women 3CJC 370Women in The Criminal Justice System3
CJC 373 Intimate Partner Violence 3CLST 271GClassical Mythology - Women/Gender Focus3
CLST 273G Classical Tragedy - Women/Gender Focus 3CLST 295Women in the Classical World3
COMM 281 Communication, Language & Gender 3ENGL 283Women in Literature3
ENGL 306 Studies in Women Writers 3ENGL 306AStudies in Women Writers Before 17003

--- Page 662 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 693
ENGL 306B Studies in Women Writers 1700-1900 3ENGL 306CStudies in Women Writers Since 19003
ENGL 307 Topics in Feminist and Gender Studies 3ENGL 369AWomen in Drama Before 17003
ENGL 369B Women in Drama 1700-1900 3FNAR 207Women, Art, and Society3
FNAR 360 Picturing Women in Renaissance and Baroque Art 3HIST 290AHistory of Sexuality in the United States3
HIST 310C Medieval Women 3HIST 310LLove and Violence in Medieval Culture and Society3
HIST 329 Women's Sphere in Past Society 3HIST 329CEmpire, Sex, Violence: European Colonial History3
HIST 331A Food, Hunger and Power in the Modern World 3HIST 337AWomen in Russia and Eurasia, 1860-Present3
HIST 339F History of Feminist Thought and Social Action 3HIST 341CTunisia On-Site: Arab Spring, Democratic Change,
Islam3
HIST 349A Women in East Asia 3HIST 358Women in Latin American History3
HIST 377 African American Women's History 3HIST 381Rebels & Reformers in U.S. History3
HIST 382 Teaching Race, Class, and Gender 3HIST 389BTopic: Gender, Race, & Class in US History3
HIST 389C Gender Benders 3LITR 291Italian & Italian-American Women Writers3
PHIL 322 Philosophical Perspectives on Woman 3PLSC 251Women in American Politics3
PLSC 312 Feminist Theory 3PLSC 319Women, Law & Public Policy3
PLSC 355C Women and Politics: A Cross-National Perspective 3PLSC 399Tunisia On-Site: Arab Spring, Democratic Change,
Islam3
PSYC 235 Psychology of Human Sexuality 3PSYC 238Gender & Sex Differences & Similarities3
PSYC 239 Understanding Bias and Inclusivity 3PSYC 340Psychology of Women3
PSYC 360 Understanding Prejudice 3SOCL 123Mass Media and Popular Culture3
SOCL 171 Sociology of Sex and Gender 3SOCL 210Gender and Work3
SOCL 239 Understanding Bias and Inclusivity 3SOCL 240Families3
SOCL 250 Inequality in Society 3SOCL 262Movements for Social Justice: 60s & Beyond3
SOCL 266 Development and Social Change in Modern China 3SPAN 361Hispanic Women Writers3
THEO 278 Religion & Gender 3THEO 365Women, Gender and Embodiment in Islam3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as thestart term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year One
FallWSGS 101Introduction to WSGS from a Global
Perspective3 Hours3
SpringElective3 Hours3
Year Two
FallWSGS 201Contemporary Issues in WSGS3 Hours3
Spring
Elective 3Elective3 Hours6
Year Three
FallWSGS 330History of Feminist Thought and Social
Action3PLSC 312 
or ENGL 307 
or WSGS 380Feminist Theory 
or Topics in Feminist and Gender
Studies 
or Queer Theory: Beyond the Binary3 Hours6
Spring
WSGS 398 Women's Studies Internship 3Elective3 Hours6
Year Four
FallWSGS 391WSGS Methodologies3Elective3 Hours6
SpringWSGS 399WSGS Capstone3 Hours3 Total Hours36
Interdisciplinary Options
For students interested in English
Code Title Hours
WSGS 201 Contemporary Issues in WSGS 3ENGL 283Women in Literature3
ENGL 306 Studies in Women Writers 3ENGL 307Topics in Feminist and Gender Studies3
FNAR 207 Women, Art, and Society 3

--- Page 663 ---
694  Women's Studies and Gender Studies Minor
For students interested in Political Science
Code Title Hours
WSGS 201 Contemporary Issues in WSGS 3PLSC 355CWomen and Politics: A Cross-National Perspective3
PLSC 312 Feminist Theory 3PLSC 319Women, Law & Public Policy3
PHIL 327 Topics in Political Philosophy 3
For students interested in Psychology
Code Title Hours
WSGS 201 Contemporary Issues in WSGS 3PSYC 235Psychology of Human Sexuality3
PSYC 238 Gender & Sex Differences & Similarities 3PSYC 340Psychology of Women3
SOCL 250 Inequality in Society 3
For students interested in Sociology
Code Title Hours
WSGS 201 Contemporary Issues in WSGS 3SOCL 123Mass Media and Popular Culture3
SOCL 210 Gender and Work 3SOCL 240Families3
SOCL 276 The Sociology and Politics of Food 3
For students interested in Theology
Code Title Hours
WSGS 201 Contemporary Issues in WSGS 3THEO 278Religion & Gender3
THEO 192 Topics in Moral Problems 3THEO 365Women, Gender and Embodiment in Islam3
ENGL 283 Women in Literature 3
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Identify major influences within key historic feminist movements.
These influences may include activists, authors and/or writings, or
legislation.
•Articulate how women’s studies and gender studies is a distinct ﬁeld
connected to other interdisciplinary ﬁelds of study.•Evaluate, compare, and critique gender and feminist theories and
methodologies.
•Identify the interactions and intersections of identities (e.g. , gender,
race, ethnicity, class, sexuality, and so on) and assess the ways in
which they contribute to instances of privilege and power dynamics
across cultures, space, and time.
•Recognize their relationship within their communities and understand
that actions (or inactions) are integral to overcoming inequalities.
•Connect theory with practice through a service learning or internship
experience.
•Identify and employ legitimate sources of information covering social
inequalities and injustices.
•Read current social inequities effectively and suggest solutions
based on feminist methodologies.
•Prepare for graduate study and for work in professional ﬁelds.
Women's Studies and Gender Studies
Minor
The WSGS Minor serves to enhance and deepen student learning
within the discipline of their major program. Through the WSGS lens of
intersectionality, students acquire analytical skills that enable them to
see the world in new ways and offer innovative solutions to social and
theoretical problems. Minors may also engage in WSGS service-learning
or internship opportunities that help them link theory and practice and
advocate for social justice.
In the spirit of interdisciplinarity, the WSGS Minor includes a robust list
of elective options in Anthropology, Criminal Justice, English, History,
Psychology, Sociology, and Theology (among other programs) that
enhance the foundational curriculum. In this way, students integrate their
learning with one or more disciplines to prepare for graduate school or
the professions.
Related Programs
Major
•Women's Studies and Gender Studies (BA)  (p. 692)
Curriculum
A minor in the Women's Studies and Gender Studies Program consists of
ﬁve courses (or 15 hours):
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesWSGS 101Introduction to WSGS from a Global Perspective3or WSGS 201Contemporary Issues in WSGS
ElectivesSelect four (4) electives from WSGS or cross-listed offerings with the
WSGS program.  (p. 694)12Total Hours15
Interdisciplinary Elective Courses
These are courses outside of the Women's Studies and Gender
Studies (WSGS) department that permanently count toward elective
requirements.  For a full list of WSGS courses, click  here  (p. 2949 ). 
There may also be courses that are temporarily tagged to count toward

--- Page 664 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 695
interdisciplinary elective requirements.  These can be found in  LOCUS
(https://locus.luc.edu/ ) in the class schedule.
Code Title Hours
ANTH 106 Sex, Science and Anthropological Inquiry 3ANTH 203Violence, Social Suffering, and Justice3
ANTH 205 Gender in Cross-Cultural Perspective 3ANTH 245Gender in Deep Time3
ANTH 307 The Body and Culture 3ANTH 346Biology of Women3
BIOL 346 Biology of Women 3CJC 370Women in The Criminal Justice System3
CJC 373 Intimate Partner Violence 3CLST 271GClassical Mythology - Women/Gender Focus3
CLST 273G Classical Tragedy - Women/Gender Focus 3CLST 295Women in the Classical World3
COMM 281 Communication, Language & Gender 3ENGL 283Women in Literature3
ENGL 306 Studies in Women Writers 3ENGL 306AStudies in Women Writers Before 17003
ENGL 306B Studies in Women Writers 1700-1900 3ENGL 306CStudies in Women Writers Since 19003
ENGL 307 Topics in Feminist and Gender Studies 3ENGL 369AWomen in Drama Before 17003
ENGL 369B Women in Drama 1700-1900 3FNAR 207Women, Art, and Society3
FNAR 360 Picturing Women in Renaissance and Baroque Art 3HIST 290AHistory of Sexuality in the United States3
HIST 310C Medieval Women 3HIST 310LLove and Violence in Medieval Culture and Society3
HIST 329 Women's Sphere in Past Society 3HIST 329CEmpire, Sex, Violence: European Colonial History3
HIST 331A Food, Hunger and Power in the Modern World 3HIST 337AWomen in Russia and Eurasia, 1860-Present3
HIST 339F History of Feminist Thought and Social Action 3HIST 341CTunisia On-Site: Arab Spring, Democratic Change,
Islam3
HIST 349A Women in East Asia 3HIST 358Women in Latin American History3
HIST 377 African American Women's History 3HIST 381Rebels & Reformers in U.S. History3
HIST 382 Teaching Race, Class, and Gender 3HIST 389BTopic: Gender, Race, & Class in US History3
HIST 389C Gender Benders 3LITR 291Italian & Italian-American Women Writers3
PHIL 322 Philosophical Perspectives on Woman 3PLSC 251Women in American Politics3
PLSC 312 Feminist Theory 3PLSC 319Women, Law & Public Policy3
PLSC 355C Women and Politics: A Cross-National Perspective 3PLSC 399Tunisia On-Site: Arab Spring, Democratic Change,
Islam3
PSYC 235 Psychology of Human Sexuality 3PSYC 238Gender & Sex Differences & Similarities3
PSYC 239 Understanding Bias and Inclusivity 3PSYC 340Psychology of Women3
PSYC 360 Understanding Prejudice 3SOCL 123Mass Media and Popular Culture3
SOCL 171 Sociology of Sex and Gender 3SOCL 210Gender and Work3
SOCL 239 Understanding Bias and Inclusivity 3SOCL 240Families3
SOCL 250 Inequality in Society 3SOCL 262Movements for Social Justice: 60s & Beyond3
SOCL 266 Development and Social Change in Modern China 3SPAN 361Hispanic Women Writers3
THEO 278 Religion & Gender 3THEO 365Women, Gender and Embodiment in Islam3
Interdisciplinary Options
For students obtaining an English degree:
Code Title Hours
WSGS 201 Contemporary Issues in WSGS 3ENGL 283Women in Literature3
ENGL 306 Studies in Women Writers 3COMM 281Communication, Language & Gender3
FNAR 207 Women, Art, and Society 3
For students obtaining a Political Science degree:
Code Title Hours
WSGS 101 Introduction to WSGS from a Global Perspective 3PLSC 355CWomen and Politics: A Cross-National Perspective3
SOCL 276 The Sociology and Politics of Food 3CJC 370Women in The Criminal Justice System3
PHIL 327 Topics in Political Philosophy 3
For students obtaining a Psychology degree:
Code Title Hours
WSGS 201 Contemporary Issues in WSGS 3PSYC 238Gender & Sex Differences & Similarities3
PSYC 340 Psychology of Women 3SOCL 250Inequality in Society3
SOWK 502 Power, Oppression, Privilege, and Social Justice 3
For students obtaining a Sociology degree:
Code Title Hours
WSGS 101 Introduction to WSGS from a Global Perspective 3WSGS 201Contemporary Issues in WSGS3
SOCL 240 Families 3HIST 290AHistory of Sexuality in the United States3
SOCL 276 The Sociology and Politics of Food 3
For students obtaining a Theology degree:
Code Title Hours
WSGS 201 Contemporary Issues in WSGS 3WSGS 375Masculinity Studies: Equity, Race, Transformation3
THEO 192 Topics in Moral Problems 3

--- Page 665 ---
696  John Felice Rome CenterTHEO 365Women, Gender and Embodiment in Islam3
SOCL 250 Inequality in Society 3
Learning Outcomes
•Identify major influences within key historic feminist movements.
These influences may include activists, authors and/or writings, or
legislation.
•Articulate how women’s studies and gender studies is a distinct ﬁeld
connected to other interdisciplinary ﬁelds of study.
•Evaluate, compare, and critique gender and feminist theories and
methodologies.
•Identify the interactions and intersections of identities (e.g. , gender,
race, ethnicity, class, sexuality, and so on) and assess the ways in
which they contribute to instances of privilege and power dynamics
across cultures, space, and time.
•Recognize their relationship within their communities and understand
that actions (or inactions) are integral to overcoming inequalities.
•Connect theory with practice through a service learning or internship
experience.
•Identify and employ legitimate sources of information covering social
inequalities and injustices.
•Read current social inequities effectively and suggest solutions
based on feminist methodologies.
•Prepare for graduate study and for work in professional ﬁelds.
John Felice Rome Center
Academic Policies
General Academic Information & Registration
All students at Loyola University Chicago's John Felice Rome Center
are continuing or visiting students of Loyola University Chicago. As
such, they fall under the academic regulations as stated in Loyola's
undergraduate catalog, unless there are published exceptions to these
regulations speciﬁcally for students at the John Felice Rome Center.
All students must be enrolled full-time in a minimum of four (4) classes,
amounting to twelve (12) credit hours. This is the minimum course load
required for all students in order to comply with the terms of the student
visa provided by the Italian government. Dropping below four (4) classes
is considered part-time study, and thus, not in compliance with Italian law.
The maximum course load is six (6) courses for a total of eighteen (18)
credit hours. Internships carry three semester credits and require 100 hours
of work experience.
It is the students' responsibility to know their home schools' academic
requirements and how the courses they propose to take at the Rome
Center ﬁt into those requirements. The Rome Center will not contact
schools for information regarding core curriculum requirements, honors
agreements, graduation requirements, pass-fail policies, withdrawal
policies, etc.  Before coming to Rome, students should have a clear
understanding of their home schools' approval of courses they will
or might take while at the Center. Alternate course selections should
also be approved in the event a ﬁrst choice is not available, i.e., closed
courses, cancelled courses, etc. It is mandatory for all students to seek
appropriate advice and counseling for any special academic situation,
i.e., graduating seniors, core or other special course requirements, tutorial
courses, pass- fail requirements, transfer of credit, course approval, etc.Loyola University of Chicago reserves the right to cancel, modify or
otherwise change the academic calendar, scheduling, credit or content of
the courses, the books used, the ﬁnal exam schedule, the fees charged,
and regulations affecting the students, as announced in its schedule.
Always refer to Locus for the most up-to-date and accurate listings.
Program Criteria
All students must have a 2.75 grade point average at the time of
application and maintain this GPA during the semester before studying
abroad at the Rome Center. It is not permitted to study at the John Felice
Rome Center with multiple outstanding incompletes. Any student with a
pending incomplete in the previous semester before attending the Rome
Center will be required to submit an appeal to the Ofﬁce of the Associate
Dean of Academic Affairs at the Rome Center.
Campus Health
The collective health of the Rome Center community is everyone’s
responsibility. The Rome Center will conduct all activity according to
policies and best practices as prescribed by the Italian Ministries of
Health and Education and in consultation with the Loyola University
Chicago main campus. These policies will be subject to change as the
situation warrants.
Pre-requisites
Students are responsible to ensure that all pre-requisites have been met
with the assistance of their academic advisor at the main campus (for
Loyola students) or at their home school (partnering students) before
coming abroad.
Italian Language
Except for those students who have previously successfully completed
the equivalent of a university-level course in the Italian language or those
who demonstrate native fluency and proﬁciency, all students are required
to register for ITAL 101 Italian I . Enrollment in ITAL 101 Italian I  is the
Rome Center's program requirement and it cannot be waived or replaced
by another language. Auditing ITAL 101 Italian I  and/or withdrawing from
it is not permitted.
E-mail
The Rome Center considers electronic mail an ofﬁcial form of
communication between the Rome Center and the student, using the
ofﬁcial @luc.edu e-mail address that is provided by the university to every
enrolled student. Students are responsible for all communications sent
by the Rome Center to their Loyola e-mail accounts.
Course Fees
Certain courses at the John Felice Rome Center are subject to
supplemental fees. These fees are in addition to the tuition and room and
board fees that appear on a student’s bill for the semester, and they are
charged to the student’s Locus account shown as “Course Fees. ” These
mandatory fees are highlighted on the course schedule and on the Rome
Center website. They are required for various reasons including covering
the costs of course materials, on-site visits and entrance fees, and other
expenses related to courses.
Course Materials and Textbooks
Some Rome Center courses require textbooks, novels and other course
materials that need to be purchased by the student. It is the student’s
responsibility to conﬁrm the required materials needed in their classes
and to purchase those within a timely manner at the start of the
semester in Rome. Rome Center faculty will provide their students

--- Page 666 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 697
with recommendations and suggestions about where to ﬁnd required
materials.
Student Travel
No special accommodations will be made for individual student t ravel.
The Rome Center supports travel as an opportunity for personal growth
by offering excursions and trips throughout Italy and Europe. In addition,
there are no classes on Friday (with the exception of 2-3 Friday class
days per semester) to facilitate individual travel. Personal travel, including
travel that incurs delays back to campus, is not a permitted excuse for
absences or lateness. For that reason, no exams or quizzes are to be
made up if missed for reasons of travel. Students are responsible for
communicating any lateness or absence due to travel to the correct
parties at the Rome Center (Student Life, faculty, etc.).
Simultaneous Enrollment/Online Courses
Simultaneous enrollment in Rome Center courses and LSC/WTC courses
is not permitted while studying at the Rome Center. Simultaneous
enrollment in Rome Center courses and any online sections (at LUC or
any other institution) is not permitted while studying at the R ome Center.
The minimum of 4 courses must be taken at the Rome Center campus in
person to comply with student visa regulations. Enrollment in sections
outside of the Rome Center is not permitted.
Fridays Class Days
The Rome Center holds classes four days a week, Monday through
Thursday. On average, 2-3 Friday class days will be scheduled during
any given semester. These Fridays will be indicated in the semester’s
academic calendar (both on the website and on campus, on the academic
bulletin board on campus, and on course syllabi. The purpose of these
Friday class days is to recuperate any class time lost from any holidays.
These classes are obligatory for all students and no exemptions will
be granted for travel or any other personal reason. Should a student
choose to travel during these or any other scheduled class days, he or
she will simply be marked absent. Note that individual courses may
occasionally include events or visits on Fridays or otherwise outside
the typical schedule that are obligatory for that course; students should
check syllabi for such instances in order to avoid unexcused absences.
Examination Policy
Final examinations are given during the scheduled examination period
each semester. Additional tests or examinations may be given during
the semester as often as deemed helpful by the instructor. Students who
miss any scheduled exam or quiz, including a ﬁnal exam at the assigned
hours will not be permitted to sit for a make-up examination without
approval of the Associate Dean of Academic Affairs. Permission is given
rarely and only for grave reason; travel is not considered a grave reason.
Make-up exams will only be given for documented absences.
Mid-term examinations and/or assignments are administered around the
mid-semester break. Student progress is assessed after mid-term so that
students who are not performing to established academic standards may
be informed of their academic progress far enough in advance to take
corrective steps. Early academic alert notices are issued to students who
are not performing at acceptable levels; notices may also be sent to the
students' deans and/or study abroad coordinators if deemed appropriate.
The policy concerning travel and make-up examinations for missed mid-
term exams is identical to that for all exams.
Absence due to a serious illness must be reported to the Associate Dean
of Academic Affairs prior to the examination and later substant iated by
a written statement from the physician in attendance. Absences dueto quarantine will be handled on a case-by-case basis. In cases where
proper permission has not been granted, a grade of "F" will be assigned.
In instances where proper authorization has been granted, the student
may take a make-up exam by following the make-up procedure outlined
above.
Final Exam Policy
In accordance with established policy at the home campus, exams must
be held at the time and location indicated on the academic calendar and
ﬁnal exam schedule. Faculty have been instructed not to hold exams
during the last week of class. With the exception of a short quiz, no
exams are permitted during the last week of classes before ﬁnal exams.
If students have more than three examinations in the same day, they
may appeal to the Associate Dean of Academic Affairs to shift one of
the exams to another day. After securing advance permission and in
consultation with the Associate Dean and faculty member, an alternative
time can be arranged at a mutually agreed upon time.
Student Attendance Policy
It is expected that students will attend and participate actively in all class
meetings both on-campus and on-site. Class participation is an essential
part of the grading policy of each instructor. All Rome Center courses
have the same attendance policy as is indicated explicitly on course
syllabi.
Rome Center Attendance Policy is as follows:
In accordance with the Rome Center mission to promote a higher level of
academic rigor, all courses adhere to the following absence policy. Prompt
attendance, preparation and active participation in course discussions are
expected from every student.
•For all classes meeting once a week, students cannot incur more than
one absence.
•For all classes meeting twice a week, students cannot incur more
than two absences.
•For all classes meeting three times a week, students cannot incur
more than two absences.
The ﬁnal course grade will drop by 1% for each absence beyond the allowance
speciﬁed.
Attendance is mandatory in class including on all scheduled Friday
class days. Absences will be excused only in the event of sickness or an
emergency. Students should consult the on-campus nurse or call the on-
call doctor if they are sick. The collective health of the Rome Center is
everyone’s responsibility. Do not attend class if you are ill . In the event
of missed classes due to sickness or the obligation to quarantine, the
ofﬁces of the Rome Center Academic Dean and Student Life will work
with students and professors to ensure access to course content.
Students from Partner Institutions
Should a student’s home university have certain requirements or
regulations regarding academics while abroad, it is the students’
responsibility to familiarize themselves with such policies. While studying
at the Rome Center, all students are considered Loyola University Chicago
students, and are therefore subject to LUC policies and requirements.
Student Accessibility Center (SAC) Services
Any student that is registered with the Student Accessibility Center (SAC)
at Loyola Chicago’s home campus, or any comparable ofﬁce at another

--- Page 667 ---
698  John Felice Rome Center
institution, will be accommodated at the Rome Center as reasonably and
as closely to their accommodations at their home campus as possible.
To request academic accommodations, ofﬁcial documentation from
LUC’s Student Accessibility Center is required. Veriﬁcation of such
services must come directly from Student Accessibility Center personnel
(not the student) to the Ofﬁce of the Academic Dean at the Rome  Center.
It will then be the students’ responsibility to conﬁrm the use of their
academic accommodations where applicable at the Rome Center, after
which the Ofﬁce of the Academic Dean will provide written veriﬁcation
of the approved accommodations to the students’ faculty members.
Examples of applicable accommodations may include extended time for
tests and quizzes, priority seating, use of audio recording software, and
a distraction-reduced testing space. Students should know that certain
accommodations are not applicable while studying at the Rome Center.
Speciﬁc instructions for coordinating accommodations related to a
distraction-reduced testing space will be provided by the Ofﬁce of the
Academic Dean, but students should note the following:
•Scheduling and proctoring of exams and quizzes in a distracted-
reduced testing space will require coordination between the student,
instructor and the Academic Dean’s Ofﬁce. Please note that the Rome
Center does not have access to the “Accommodate” system.
•Students are responsible for communicating with their individual
instructors and the Dean’s Ofﬁce to schedule their examinations.
Accommodations will not be provided to students who neglect
to reach out about scheduling. Below please ﬁnd the timeline for
scheduling a distraction-reduced testing space and proctor:Type of ExamScheduling
Regularly scheduled quizzes/
exams7 days in advanceMidterms2 weeks in advance of midterm
date
Finals 2 weeks in advance of ﬁnal date
•Students can choose to opt out of using SAC accommodations
and/or opt back in, but only if the request comes seven (7) days
before the exam/quiz (for those other than midterm/ﬁnal) or two
(2) weeks before the midterm/ﬁnal exam. No petitions for SAC
accommodations will be granted beyond those dates and no
accommodations are retroactive.
With the Rome Center’s limited resources, collaboration and flexibility
is appreciated during this procedure. The Rome Center is committed to
providing all reasonable accommodations where possible.
Academic Integrity/Plagiarism
As one of the campuses of Loyola University Chicago, the Rome
Center is committed to academic rigor and excellence. Plagiarism
and academic dishonesty of any kind are unacceptable and will not
tolerated. Students are advised to familiarize themselves with Loyola’s
standards here: http://www.luc.edu/academics/catalog/undergrad/
reg_academicintegrity.shtml  (http://www.luc.edu/academics/catalog/
undergrad/reg_academicintegrity.shtml/ ). Students are responsible to
comply with the LUC Student Handbook.
Pass/Fail and Audit Policy
Students should register for all courses as regularly graded courses. For
inquiries about pass-no pass and/or audit, please inquire with the Rome
Center dean’s ofﬁce for additional information.Withdrawal from Class
Students may withdraw from class with the ﬁnal grade of “W” provided
this is done before the conclusion of the tenth week of class. Withdrawal
after the change of registration period but before the withdraw deadline
will result as a “W” on a student’s transcript. Withdrawal after the
deadline will result in a “WF” on a student’s transcript. Please refer to the
Academic Calendar for further information on dates and deadlines.
Students may not withdraw from class if doing so will drop them below
the 12 semester hour credit minimum required of students in attendance
at the Rome Center. Ofﬁcial withdrawals can be made via the LOCUS
system or with guidance from the Assistant Dean of Academic Programs.
Please note that withdrawal from ITAL 101 Italian I  is not permitted, as this
course is a requirement for all Rome Center students with no previous Italian
experience.
Academic Grievances and Grade Appeals
Students are encouraged to seek resolutions for any course-related
complaints directly with their course instructor. If a student feels
that the issue has not been sufﬁciently resolved, they can bring their
issue forward to the attention of the Dean’s ofﬁce. If a resolution
cannot be found between the student and the instructor, students are
required to follow Loyola University’s Academic Grievance Policies as
indicated here: https://www.luc.edu/academics/catalog/undergrad/
reg_academicgrievance.shtml  (https://www.luc.edu/academics/catalog/
undergrad/reg_academicgrievance.shtml/ )
Student Summer Session Academic
Policies
Summer Registration Procedure
Students must register for a total of 6 credits (2 courses) as regularly
graded courses. During the ﬁrst two days of classes, students will be
permitted to elect a change of registration with the Assistant Dean of
Academic Programs. After that publicized deadline, no changes will be
made to a student’s schedule.
Pass/Fail Policy
To promote the academic rigor of the John Felice Rome Center
curriculum, students are not permitted to elect the pass/fail option during
a summer session.
Course Materials and Texts
Students are expected to arrive in Rome with their required course
materials already in their possession. Summer course texts are available
for purchase at the LUC bookstore (both online and in person). There is
no guarantee that the required materials will be available in Rome if a
student neglects to obtain them before they come.
Attendance Policy
In accordance with the Rome Center mission to promote a higher level
of academic rigor, all courses adhere to the following attendance policy.
Prompt attendance, preparation and active participation in course
discussions are expected from every student. Any lateness or leaving
class early will impact the ﬁnal course grade.
Attendance is mandatory at every class meeting for each course.
Absence due to sickness or injury needs to be corroborated by a doctor’s
note. Students late to class twice will be credited with one absence
in accordance with the Rome Center’s Attendance policy. Three (3)

--- Page 668 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 699
absences will result in an automatic failure (F). Travel does not constitute
reason to miss class.
Withdrawal from Class
Students studying at the Rome Center during the summer semester must
be enrolled in two (2) classes for credit. Students will have until the end
of the business day on the second day of classes to make any changes to
their course schedule. Any changes after the second day of classes may
result in “W” or “WF . ” Students may not withdraw from a class if doing so
will drop them below the six (6) semester credit hour minimum required
of students in attendance at the Rome Center summer program.
Final Examination Policy
All students must sit for their ﬁnal examinations on the day and time
scheduled. No exams are to be given on another day or at another time
without consent from the Associate Dean of Academic Affairs. Travel
plans or other personal commitments may not interfere with already
scheduled ﬁnals.
John Felice Rome Center Course Listings
Code Title Hours
ANTH 102 Culture, Society, and Diversity 33ANTH 216Cultures of Migration 33
BIOL 251 Cell Biology 13BIOL 282Genetics 23
CLST 207 Art of the Roman World 33CLST 274World of Archaic Greece 13
CLST 275 World of Classical Greece 23CLST 276World of Classical Rome 33
CLST 277 World of Late Antiquity 33CLST 308History of Rome to Constantine 13
COMM 299 Themes in Film and Digital Media 33ENGL 290Human Values in Literature 33
ENGL 318R The Writing of Fiction: Writing Rome 33ENVS 101The Scientiﬁc Basis of Environmental Issues 33
ENVS 283 Environmental Sustainability 43FINC 301Introductory Business Finance 33
FNAR 113 Drawing I 13FNAR 124Sculpture Foundations 23
FNAR 202 Global Art History: Modern Art 33FNAR 342Art in Rome 43
FNAR 343 Baroque Art 33GLST 370Internship in Global Studies 33-6
GNUR 207 Concepts of Professional Nursing Practice 12GNUR 360Nursing Research: For Evidence-Based Practice 13
HIST 101 Culture, Power and Identity: Western Ideas &
Institutions to 17th Century 13HIST 102Culture, Power and Identity: Western Ideas &
Institutions from 17th Century 23
HIST 300 Topics in History 23HIST 324Italy 19th & 20th Centuries 33
HONR 216A Encountering Contemporary Europe 33IBUS 370Inernational Business Internship - Engaged
Learning 33-6
ISSCM 241 Business Statistics 33ITAL 101Italian I 43
ITAL 102 Italian II 43ITAL 103Italian III 33
ITAL 104 Italian IV 33ITAL 250Composition & Conversation I 53
ITAL 300 Tutorial for Credit 51-6ITAL 301Stylistics 53
ITAL 395 Internship 53LATN 283The Age of Caesar 53
LITR 200 European Masterpieces 33LITR 202European Novel 33
LITR 264 Italian Film Genre 33LITR 268RItalian Culture: Food & Wine 43
MARK 201 Principles of Marketing 33MGMT 201Managing People and Organizations 33
MUSC 142 Class Voice for Beginners 33MUSC 154RIntroduction to Opera in Rome 33
PHIL 130 Philosophy & Persons 33PHIL 181Ethics 43
PHIL 277R Aesthetics: the Aesthetic Experience in Rome 33PHIL 287Environmental Ethics 13
PHIL 288R Culture & Civilization in Rome 23PLSC 102International Relations in an Age of Globalization 33
ROST 370 International Internship - Rome Focus 33-6ROST 382Human Rights: View from Rome 33
SOCL 267 Italy Today 33THEO 100Christian Theology 13
THEO 107 Introduction to Religious Studies 23THEO 204Religious Ethics and the Ecological Crisis 13
THEO 266 Church & Global Cultures 33THEO 278Religion & Gender 43
THEO 279 Roman Catholicism 43THEO 281Christianity Through Time 13
UCLR 100M Interpreting Literature - Modern Langs&Literatures
33UCWR 110Writing Responsibly 13
UNIV 101 First Year Seminar 11UNIV 301Ricci Seminar Rome 13
WSGS 201 Contemporary Issues in WSGS 23
1Typically offered Fall
2Typically offered Spring
3Typically offered Fall/Spring
4Typically offered Fall/Spring (multiple sections)
5Typically offered As Needed
Loyola University Chicago John Felice Rome Center reserves the right to
cancel, modify or otherwise change course offerings.
Marcella Niehoff School of Nursing
Mission, Vision & Core Values
Our Jesuit values guide us to shape the future of health and health care

--- Page 669 ---
700  Marcella Niehoff School of Nursing
Our mission  at the Marcella Niehoff School of Nursing is to advance the
science of nursing and provide a transformative education in the Jesuit
Catholic tradition that prepares compassionate, innovative, diverse nurse
leaders who provide care for the whole person and partner locally and
globally to promote social justice and health for all.
Our vision  at the Marcella Niehoff School of Nursing is to be a preeminent
leader in transforming the health of persons, families, communities and
populations, while promoting social justice, health equity and quality care
for all.
In keeping with the University's Ignatian heritage, the School of Nursing
is committed to the ﬁve hallmark characteristics of a Jesuit education.
These characteristics provide the foundation for our core values, helping
guide and motivate our administrators, faculty, students, and graduates
to think differently about their approach to health care.
Core Values
Commitment to Excellence
Apply well-learned lessons and skills to achieve new ideas, better
solutions, and vital answers.
•Promote dialogue, critical thinking, and the discernment of meaning
in the process of enhancing health of persons and communities, both
locally and globally.
•Foster an academic environment that supports and guides students
in their transformation toward becoming health care leaders.
Faith in God and the Religious Tradition
Promote well-formed and strongly held beliefs in one’s faith tradition to
deepen others’ relationship with God.
•Acknowledge that humans are physical, psychosocial, and spiritual
beings
•Recognize that spirituality affects health.
•Respect that spirituality is lived out differently through diverse faiths,
beliefs, and religious traditions.
•Create a safe place to search for meaning in the process of discovery
and transformation, as well as social change.
•Respect our potential for achievement while accepting our human
limitations in the pursuit of good.
Service that Promotes Justice
Use learning and leadership in openhanded and generous ways to ensure
freedom of inquiry, the pursuit of truth, and care for others.
•Commit to social justice by engaging individuals, families, and
communities, both locally and globally, to improve and promote
health.
•Recognize that health disparities exist; those with the greatest need
and with the least access hold a higher priority for action.
•Engage in research and application of evidence-based practice or
best practices that limit health disparities.
Values-Based Leadership
Ensure a consistent focus on personal integrity, ethical behavior in
business and in all professions, and the appropriate balance between
justice and fairness.
•Foster synergistic collaborations within and between professions,
disciplines, programs, and partners.•Respect the dignity and fundamental rights of all.
•Embrace the tension that exists between competing priorities (e.g.,
mission-driven, ﬁnancially-driven, Ethical & Religious Directives for
Catholic Health Care Services) when making choices.
•Accept responsibility to make choices and act through discernment,
being wise stewards of resources.
•Actively seek diversity in people, programs, professions, and practice
to strengthen the communities of which we are a part.
•Promote a culture of purposeful transparency.
Global Awareness
Demonstrate an understanding that the world’s people and societies are
interrelated and interdependent.
•Understand that individuals are intimately connected to, live within,
and operate within community.
•Recognize that communities have cultural capital with unique
strengths.
•Foster relationships and engaging in partnerships in order to promote
health.
•Embrace culture as a means to serve and to lead change toward
better health.
•Apply the lessons we learn locally to global milieus and applying
lessons learned globally to local initiatives.
Accreditation
The baccalaureate degree program in nursing at Loyola University Chicago is
accredited by:
Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education 
655 K Street, NW 
Suite 750 
Washington, DC 20001 
202-887-6791.
The BSN program has approval from the Illinois Department of Financial and
Professional Regulation (IDFPR), Division of Professional Regulation.
Undergraduate Programs
•Nursing (Accelerated BSN)  (p. 706)
•Nursing (BSN)  (p. 707)
Policies
Academic Standing
Students must maintain a cumulative GPA of 2.00 to be in good academic
standing. Graduation from the university requires at least a 2.00 average
for all coursework attempted and a minimum of a least a 2.00 average in
the nursing.
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
University Policies
Please see University Policies for academic policies that supersede those
of academic units within the University

--- Page 670 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 701
CM/MH/AD Nursing (CMAN)
CMAN 272   Mental Health Patterns   (3 Credit Hours)   
Co-requisites:  CMAN 272L   
This course is designed to prepare students in assisting persons
(individuals, families, communities) to achieve and maintain optimal
mental health.
Outcomes:
The student will be able to use critical thinking to apply know ledge from
nursing and other disciplines in the care of persons with mental health
disorders
CMAN 272L   Mental Health Patterns: Lab   (3 Credit Hours)   
Co-requisites:  Must also enroll in CMAN 272   
This course is designed to prepare students in assisting persons
(individuals, families, communities) to achieve and maintain optimal
mental health.
Outcomes:
The student will be able to use critical thinking to apply know ledge from
nursing and other disciplines in the care of persons with mental health
disorders
CMAN 375   Community Health Nursing   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  NURS-BSN R & GNRS students   
This course integrates nursing and public health concepts to provide a
theoretical base for the care of families, aggregates, communities, and
populations.
Course equivalencies:  CMAN380/CMAN380A/CMAN375   
CMAN 375L   Community Health Nursing   (3 Credit Hours)   
This clinical course provides the student with an opportunity to
apply nursing and public health concepts to families, aggregates,
communities, and populations. Opportunities to apply epidemiology and
risk assessment strategies in a community assessment are provided. The
role of the community health nurse as educator is addressed.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  CMAN375L/CMAN380C/CMAN380L   
Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course the student will be able to: 1) Apply
nursing and public health concepts to community assessment utilizing
databases and community engagement; 2) Evaluate the provision of
health education and/or health information in the community
CMAN 380   Community Health   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Must have taken and passed MSN 277, MSN 277L,
GNUR 294, and GNUR 290 with a C- or better; Must also enroll in
CMAN 380L   
Nursing and public health concepts provide theoretical basis for care
of families, aggregates, and communities outside institutional settings.
Role of community health nurses in caring for speciﬁc aggregates is
described. Clinical experiences are provided for application of concepts
and implementation of nursing interventions in a variety of community
settings.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  CMAN380/CMAN380A/CMAN375   
CMAN 380L   Community Health: Lab   (3 Credit Hours)   
Must also enroll in CMAN 380.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  CMAN375L/CMAN380C/CMAN380L   General Nursing (GNUR)
GNUR XXX   Comprehensive Exam Semester 1   (0 Credit Hours)   
Course designation for program planning master's students into the
comprehensive examination requirement; First semester of the process.
GNUR YYY   Comprehensive Exam Semester 2   (0 Credit Hours)   
Course designation for program planning master's students into the
comprehensive examination requirement; Second semester of the
process.
GNUR 102   Introduction to Professional Nursing Practice   (1 Credit
Hour)   
This course introduces the mission of the MNSON and the foundations
of nursing practice. Nursing is presented as a scientiﬁc profession with a
heritage of strong values-based leadership based on critical thinking and
evidence based practice.
Outcomes:
Describe the mission of the MNSON and discuss the ANA Scope of
Standards of Nursing Practice
GNUR 155   Human Anatomy   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is designed to give students a basic understanding of the
structure of the major organs and systems of the human body from the
cellular to the system level. Must also enroll in GNUR 155L.
GNUR 155L   Human Anatomy Lab   (1 Credit Hour)   
Companion laboratory course for GNUR 155, Human Anatomy Must also
enroll in GNUR 155.
GNUR 156   Human Physiology   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is designed to give students a basic understanding of the
function of the major organs and systems of the human body from the
cellular to the system level. Must have taken and passed GNUR 155,
GNUR 160 with a C- or better. Must also enroll in GNUR 156L.
GNUR 156L   Human Physiology Lab   (1 Credit Hour)   
Companion laboratory course for GNUR 156, Human Physiology Must
enroll in GNUR 156.
GNUR 157   Human Anatomy and Physiology I Theory   (3 Credit Hours)   
Co-requisites:  GNUR 157L The ﬁrst in a two-part sequence, this course is
designed to give students a detailed understanding of the structure of
the major organs and systems of the human body from the cellular to the
system level   
It includes the integumentary system, the skeletal system, the skeletal
muscles, the nervous system, and the special senses (sight, hearing,
smell, taste). By the end of the course, students will be able to
demonstrate understanding of the workings of the above systems from
an anatomical and physiological viewpoint.
Outcomes:
Use appropriate terminology to discuss anatomy and physiology; Identify
anatomical structures and describe the complex interrelationships
between structure and function; Explain how body systems work together
to maintain homeostasis; Describe the general structure and function of
the integumentary system, the skeletal system, the skeletal muscles, the
nervous system, and the special senses and their interactions with each
other; Recognize and apply patterns that unify, organize, and simplify the
abundant detail of anatomy and physiology

--- Page 671 ---
702  Marcella Niehoff School of Nursing
GNUR 157L   Human Anatomy and Physiology I Lab   (1 Credit Hour)   
Co-requisites:  GNUR 157 This course is the companion laboratory course
for GNUR 157, Anatomy and Physiology I   
This course is designed to give students a basic understanding of the
structure and function of the major organs and systems of the human
body from the cellular to the system level of the integumentary, skeletal,
muscle and nervous systems. By the end of the course, students will be
able to demonstrate understanding of the workings of the system s from
an anatomical and physiological viewpoint.
Outcomes:
Identify anatomical structures using appropriate terminology and
describe the complex interrelationships between structure and function
of the system level of the integumentary, skeletal, muscle and nervous
systems; Use appropriate laboratory tools and techniques to examine
anatomical structures and physiological functions; Work collaboratively
with peers during lab and communicate results of lab work effectively
GNUR 158   Human Anatomy and Physiology II Theory   (3 Credit Hours)   
Co-requisites:  GNUR 158L The second in a two-part sequence, this course
is designed to give students a detailed understanding of the structure of
the major organs and systems of the human body from the cellular to the
system level   
It includes the endocrine, cardiovascular, lymphatic, respiratory,
digestive, urinary, and reproductive systems, as well as the concepts of
development, metabolism, fluid and electrolyte balance, and acid-base
balance. By the end of the course, students will be able to demonstrate
understanding of the workings of the above systems from an anatomical
and physiological viewpoint.
Outcomes:
Use appropriate terminology to discuss anatomy and physiology; Identify
anatomical structures and describe the complex interrelationships
between structure and function; Explain how body systems work together
to maintain homeostasis; Describe the general structure and function
of endocrine, cardiovascular, lymphatic, respiratory, digestive, urinary,
and reproductive systems, as well as the concepts of development,
metabolism, fluid and electrolyte balance, and acid-base balance
and their interactions with each other; Recognize and apply patterns
that unify, organize, and simplify the abundant detail of anatomy and
physiology
GNUR 158L   Human Anatomy and Physiology II Lab   (1 Credit Hour)   
Co-requisites:  GNUR 158 This course is the companion laboratory course
for GNUR 158, Anatomy and Physiology II   
This course is designed to give students a basic understanding of
the structure and function of the major organs and systems of the
human body from the cellular to the system level of the endocrine,
cardiovascular, respiratory, digestive, urinary, and reproductive
systems. By the end of the course, students will be able to demonstrate
understanding of the workings of the systems from an anatomical and
physiological viewpoint.
Outcomes:
Identify anatomical structures using appropriate terminology and
describe the complex interrelationships between structure and function
of the system level of the endocrine, cardiovascular, respiratory, digestive,
urinary, and reproductive systems; Use appropriate laboratory tools and
techniques to examine anatomical structures or physiological functions;
Work collaboratively with peers during lab and communicate results of
lab work effectivelyGNUR 160   Chemistry for Health Professions   (3 Credit Hours)   
Introduction to general chemistry and elements of organic chemistry and
biochemistry include the review of families of simple organic molecules
and simple sugars, the role of enzymes in biochemical reactions, and the
metabolism of carbohydrates, proteins, and lipids. Must also enroll in
GNUR 160L.
Course equivalencies:  GNUR160/CHEM151   
GNUR 160L   Chemistry for Health Professions Lab   (1 Credit Hour)   
Companion laboratory course for GNUR 160, Chemistry for Health
Professions Must also enroll in GNUR 160.
GNUR 203   Microbiology for Health Professions with Lab   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course examines basic concepts of microbial metabolism, genetics,
and classiﬁcation in order to understand their effects on human health.
Clinically relevant microbial diseases will be explored, with a focus on
microbe-human interactions, epidemiology, and methods to control
microbes. The course includes a laboratory component designed to
complement lecture topics.
Outcomes:
Identify the association between the major groups of microorganisms,
the portals of entry and exit of microorganisms that cause disease, and
disease processes; Describe the components and functions of the human
immune system, the role it plays in protecting the host, and methods
that microorganisms use to evade or defeat the immune system;
Apply microbial control principles to aseptic technique, antimicrobial
treatments, drug resistance, and antibiotic stewardship; Explain the
magnitude of the global impact of microbes on human illness, and the
factors that hamper effective global public health efforts; Implement
microbiological techniques such as isolation of organisms, counting
microbial populations, staining, ELISA, and metabolic identiﬁcation of
organisms
GNUR 204   Bridge Course and Nursing Concepts   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides conceptual linkage between student's previous
nursing education and clinical experiences to professional nursing. The
student's background in liberal arts, science and nursing is used as
the basis for exploration of theories that guide contemporary nursing
practice and leadership. Historical, cultural and political factors that
have shaped contemporary nursing and the U.S. health care system
are explored. Emphasis is placed on developing an understanding of
scientiﬁc problem-solving, by accessing and evaluating data from a
variety of sources. Critical thinking skills and the ability to evaluate
evidence for practice are stressed.

--- Page 672 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 703
GNUR 207   Concepts of Professional Nursing Practice   (2 Credit Hours)   
This course explores nursing concepts for professional nursing practice
in the care of individuals, families, communities, and populations, along
the health-illness continuum. Content includes client and famil y- centered
care, client teaching, levels of prevention, the determinants of health and
illness, and the principles of population- focused and cultural ly sensitive
care. Students are introduced to the historical and political influences
of the current US health care delivery system with an emphasis on the
issues of health care access, health care disparities, social determinants
of health, biases in the healthcare setting, and health literacy among
culturally diverse and vulnerable populations.
Outcomes:
1) Describe the role of the professional nurse in health promotion and risk
reduction for individuals, families, communities, and populations, with
an emphasis on the impact of values, lifestyle, and cultural influences;
2) Understand the cultural basis for health beliefs and practices for
individuals, families, communities, and populations; 3) Understand the
epidemiological model for diseases, including the levels of prevention
and population-based approaches; 4) Explain the structure and function
of the US health care delivery system and the impact of these factors on
access, quality, and cost of health care; 5) Understand the health goals
for the nation identiﬁed by Healthy People initiative
GNUR 207A   Concepts of Professional Nursing Practice   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores nursing concepts for professional nursing practice
in the care of individuals, families, communities, and populations, along
the health-illness continuum. Content includes client and famil y- centered
care, client teaching, levels of prevention, the determinants of health and
illness, and the principles of population- focused and cultural ly sensitive
care. Students are introduced to the historical and political influences
of the current US health care delivery system with an emphasis on the
issues of health care access, health care disparities, social determinants
of health, biases in the healthcare setting, and health literacy among
culturally diverse and vulnerable populations. Restricted to RN-BSN
Students Only.
Outcomes:
1) Describe the role of the professional nurse in health promotion and risk
reduction for individuals, families, communities, and populations, with
an emphasis on the impact of values, lifestyle, and cultural influences;
2) Understand the cultural basis for health beliefs and practices for
individuals, families, communities, and populations; 3) Understand the
epidemiological model for diseases, including the levels of prevention
and population-based approaches; 4) Explain the structure and function
of the US health care delivery system and the impact of these factors on
access, quality, and cost of health care; 5) Understand the health goals
for the nation identiﬁed by Healthy People initiative
GNUR 230   Success in Nursing I   (1 Credit Hour)   
This course is designed to help students to understand and develop the
vocabulary and critical thinking skills necessary to increase their success
in nursing courses, the nursing program, and the university.
Outcomes:
The student will be able to increase their mathematical, verbal, critical
thinking, and study skills; The student will learn to use the nursing
process as a problem solving methodGNUR 238   The Foundations of Clinical Practice in Nursing   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Must have taken and passed GNUR 155, GNUR 156, and
GNUR 160 with a C- or better; Must also enroll in GNUR 238L   
This course introduces basic nursing concepts such as critical thinking,
the nursing process, physiologic and safety needs of the client, health
assessment, and fundamental nursing skills, including safe medication
administration. The course prepares students for the role of the
professional nurse in the clinical setting.
GNUR 238L   Foundations of Clinical Practice in Nursing Lab   (1 Credit
Hour)   
The students will utilize critical thinking skills and the nursing process to
apply basic nursing concepts in the performance of health assessment
and fundamental nursing skills. The course prepares students for the role
of the professional nurse in the clinical setting. Must enroll in GNUR 238.
GNUR 290   Concepts in Older Adult Health   (2 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Must have taken and passed GNUR 238, GNUR 293 and
GNUR 297 with a C- or better, OR be enrolled in GNUR 238, GNUR 293 and
GNUR 297   
This course introduces students to the care of older adults. It is designed
to explore current concepts and practices pertaining to aging. This
course provides an overview of the normal physical, psychological, and
social-cultural aspects of the aging process. It addresses health and
health alterations of aging and exploration of attitudes toward care of
the older adult. Enrollment is restricted to students admitted to the BSN
program.
GNUR 293   Pathophysiology   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Must have taken and passed GNUR 155, GNUR 156 and
GNUR 160 with a C - or better   
This course provides the student with knowledge of the basic
mechanisms involved in pathophysiological processes.
Outcomes:
The student will be able to use critical thinking skills in the application of
pathophysiological processes to clinical practice
GNUR 294   Foundations of Pharmacology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Must have taken and passed GNUR 293, GNUR 203,
GNUR 238, GNUR 297 with a C- or better; Must have taken and passed
GNUR 238L with a P   
This course introduces nursing students to pharmacology and provides
them with the foundation needed to administer medications.
GNUR 297   Clinical Nutrition for Nursing Practice   (2 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Must have taken and passed GNUR 155, GNUR 156, and
GNUR 160 with a C- or better   
This course introduces foundations of nutrition for nursing practice.
Evidence-based nutrition is applied across the life-span and health
continuum. Nutritional assessment, cultural practices and health policies
are explored.

--- Page 673 ---
704  Marcella Niehoff School of Nursing
GNUR 307   Concepts of Professional Nursing Practice   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores concepts for professional nursing practice.
Major course concepts include the social contract with nursing and
society, health promotion and risk reduction, social and cultural factors
influencing health beliefs and practices, and the relations between theory,
research, evidence and practice. Interprofessional competencies within
the structure and function of the healthcare system are addressed. This
course is for RN-BSN students.
Outcomes:
Upon successful completion of this course, the student is able to: 1)
Explain historical, contemporary, cultural, and policy trends that have
shaped nursing practice and roles; 2) Relate the mission and values
of the Marcella Niehoff School of Nursing to the social contract for
professional nursing; 3) Understand the social and cultural basis for
health beliefs and practices in individuals, families, communities, and
populations; 4) Understand the role of the professional nurse in health
promotion and risk reduction; 5) Explain the integration of theory and
research into professional nursing practice; 6) Analyze the impact of
interprofessional competencies, collaboration skills, and advocacy
skills on patient and family centered care; and 7) Analyze the structure
and function of the US healthcare system in access, quality, and cost
dimensions
GNUR 325   Selected Topics   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
This course will provide the student with content knowledge speciﬁc to
particular areas of nursing. Topics may include peer teaching, critical
care, emergency, high-risk childbearing families, community health,
oncologic, rehabilitation, gerontologic nursing, or comparative health
systems including international study.
GNUR 327   Introduction to Spiritual Care   (3 Credit Hours)   
Spiritual Care is essential to providing quality nursing care. This
course is focused on the nurse as integral to the care of the whole
person. Historical, theoretical and practical perspectives of providing
spiritual care are discussed as well as the nursing process, cultural
considerations, therapeutic use of self, and most frequently used nursing
interventions related to spiritual care.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Theological Knowledge   
Outcomes:
Discuss professional mandates for spiritual care; Explain importance
of fostering personal spiritual self awareness in caring for spirit of
the patient, family and community; Integrate elements of spiritual
assessment into overall assessment of a patient; Use prayer to comfort
patients; Deﬁne suffering and relationship to spiritual care
GNUR 338A   Physical Assessment for R.N.s   (3 Credit Hours)   
Restricted to Graduate Nursing students. This course prepares students
to conduct comprehensive health assessments. Students are provided
experiential learning opportunities to demonstrate competency in health
assessment. Emphasis is placed on the physical, psychological, social,
cultural, spiritual, and economic dimensions of health and wellness,
and the identiﬁcation of real and potential patient health and wellness
problems.GNUR 344   Quality and Safety   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on quality and safety in healthcare. Historical and
contemporary trends in quality and safety are addressed and major
initiatives for quality and safety in healthcare are examined. The course
is structured around the knowledge, skills, and attitudes of the Quality
and Safety Education for Nurses initiative. This course is for RN-BSN
students.
Outcomes:
1) Understand historical forces and events shaping quality and safety
initiatives in health care; 2) Differentiate between quality and safety in
healthcare and professional nursing practice; 3) Relate key knowledge,
skills, and attitudes of patient-centered care, teamwork and collaboration,
evidence-based practice, quality improvement, safety, and informatics
to the contemporary health care system and professional nursing
practice; 4) Understand the dimensions of patient-centered care and
the factors influencing those dimensions; 5) Analyze the effectiveness
of interprofessional teams; 6) Relate informatics and evidence-based
practice to quality and safety for individuals, groups, communities, and
populations; 7) Apply tools and processes in quality and safety initiatives
GNUR 356   Nursing Informatics   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides an introduction to nursing informatics, involving
the integration of nursing, health, computer, and information science,
in the support of professional nursing practice. The effective use of
technology in aspects of health care deliver are explored. Information
retrieval, management, and evaluation strategies are emphasized. Legal
and ethical principles and standards are applied to the use of information
and technology in professional nursing practice. This course is for RN-
BSN students.
Outcomes:
Upon the successful completion of this course, the student is able to: 1)
Analyze web-based health content resources; 2) Describe the clinician
role in the design, selection, implementation, and evaluation of healthcare
applications and systems; 3) Apply selection, retrieval, and evaluation
strategies in the use of data relevant for patient care; 4) Relate nursing
and healthcare informatics competencies to effective nursing practice;
5) Explain the data-driven healthcare culture; 6) Apply ethical and legal
principles in the use of information and technologies for professional
nursing practice
GNUR 360   Nursing Research: For Evidence-Based Practice   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Must have taken and passed PSYC 304 or STAT 103 with a
C- or better   
This course provides basic knowledge regarding the research process
and the importance of evidence-based nursing practices. Students learn
to analyze how evidence is generated to make clinical judgments that
inform practice in a variety of settings.
Course equivalencies:  GNUR350/GNUR3660   
GNUR 361   Nursing Ethics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Must have taken and passed GNUR 360, MSN 277,
MSN 277L, GNUR 294, GNUR 290 with a C- or better   
This course offers students, as future health care professionals and as
health care recipients, opportunities to think philosophically, demonstrate
ethical awareness, do ethical reflection, and apply ethical principles in
decision-making.
Outcomes:
The student will be able to recognize and respond to ethical challenges
inherent in the delivery of health care to individuals with differing
philosophical views and diverse backgrounds providing reasoned
arguments for views held/positions taken

--- Page 674 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 705
GNUR 363   Healthcare Transitions   (3 Credit Hours)   
Patients pass between health care settings, levels of care, health care
providers, and their homes and the communities where they live. These
transitions require high degrees of care coordination and management
to ensure continuity across settings, providers, and levels. This course
examines coordination of care and management of transitions across
settings, providers, and levels. Models and frameworks of transition and
care coordination will be examined, along with the contemporary research
in care coordination and transition management. The professional
nurse's role in care coordination and transition management in health will
be a focus of the course. This course is for RN-BSN students.
Outcomes:
Upon successful completion of the course, the student has the ability
to: 1) Understand models and frameworks association with health
care transitions and care coordination; 2) Analyze research ﬁndings
related to care coordination and transition management in health care;
3) Understand facilitators and barriers for effective care coordination
and transition management; 4) Describe the role of information,
informatics, and technology for enhancing care coordination and
transition management; 5) Understand patient, clinician, caregiver, and
institutional outcomes associated with successful care coordination and
transition management
GNUR 383   Leadership for Professional Nursing Practice   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Must have taken and passed MCN 273, MCN 374,
CMAN 272, CMAN 380, GNUR 360 with a C- or better , OR MCN 273L,
MCN374L, CMAN 272L, CMAN 380L with a P   
This course prepares the student to provide leadership in the practice
setting and profession. Personal identity and role as nurse leader is
addressed from unit-based to organizational and policy environments.
Principles of leadership are developed and applied in clinical settings.
Legal, regulatory and professional standards related to nursing practice
are presented.
GNUR 384   Clinical Role Transition   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Must have taken and passed MCN 273, MCN 374,
CMAN 272, CMAN 380, GNUR 360,with a C- or better; Must have taken
and passed MCN 273L, MCN 374L, CMAN 272L, and CMAN 380L with a P;
Must also enroll in GNUR 383   
Through preceptor-based learning and seminars, this experience focuses
on assimilating the role behaviors of a professional nurse as a provider,
designer, manager, and coordinator of care in health care systems, and a
member of a profession. Clinical reasoning, critical thinking, prioritization,
and the integration of knowledge are emphasized in this experience,
focusing on the provision of patient-centered, evidence-based care as a
member of an interprofessional health care team.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Upon successful completion of this course, the student is able to: 1)
Incorporate standards of practice into the development, implementation,
and evaluation of evidence-based, patient-centered care; 2) Apply
principles of quality and safety in patient care settings; 3) Apply
knowledge of prioritization and delegation in the management of  care; 4)
Collaborate with patients, families, and members of the interprofessional
health care team in the design, delivery, and evaluation of evidence-based,
patient-centered care; 5) Exemplify role behaviors consistent with a
member of a profession; 6) Incorporate ethical, legal, regulatory, ﬁnancial,
and economic considerations into the design, delivery, management, and
evaluation of careGNUR 390   Integrative Clinical Practicum   (0 Credit Hours)   
This clinical practicum experience provides opportunities for the
student to integrate theoretical knowledge into the role behaviors of the
professional nurse as a designer, provider, manager, and coordinator of
care in health care systems and the community. This course is for RN-
BSN students.
Outcomes:
1) Incorporate standards of practice and professional performance
into the design, implementation, and evaluation of evidence-based
care strategies; 2) Apply principles of quality and safety in enacting
the role of the professional nurse; 3) Collaborate with recipients of
care, the interprofessional team, and community resources in the
design, delivery, and evaluation of evidence-based, client centered, care
strategies; 4) Exemplify the role behaviors consistent with membership
in the profession of nursing; 5) Incorporate ethical, legal, regulatory,
ﬁnancial, and economic considerations into the design, implementation,
management, and evaluation of evidence-based care initiatives
GNUR 399   Independent Study   (1-5 Credit Hours)   
Requires approval of Associate Dean Academic Programs in Nursing.
Healthcare Emergency Management
(HEM)
HEM 100   Emergency Medical Technician - Basic   (4 Credit Hours)   
This course is designed to instruct a student to the level of Emergency
Medical Technician-Basic, who serves as a vital link in the health care
team. This includes all skills necessary to provide emergency medical
care and a basic life support (BLS) level with an ambulance or other
specialized service. Student must maintain active CPR recognition
throughout the course.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
HEM 395   Emergency Management Practicum   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  HEM 201   
The purpose of this course is to integrate and synthesize the theory and
principles presented in the core classes of the healthcare emergency
management major. To achieve this goal, the practicum will examine
and assess various disaster case studies. Utilizing the resources of the
Faculty Advisory Board, students will be placed in emergency services or
public health positions to observe ﬁrst hand the work of the healthcare
emergency manager. In particular, students will observe and participate
in such activities as strategic planning; inter-governmental agency
communication and information sharing; risk analysis; disaster plan
preparation and other aspects of public health threat preparedness;
policy analysis; and related practices.
Maternal/Child Nursing (MCN)
MCN 273   Family Health Patterns I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Must have taken and passed MSN 277, GNUR 294 with a
C- or better; Must have taken and passed MSN 277L with a P; Must also
enroll in MCN 273L   
This course allows students to apply concepts from systems theory
and the levels of prevention models to structure the presentation of
selected concepts related to health promotion and health maintenance of
childbearing and parenting families.
Outcomes:
The student will be able to use critical thinking to apply know ledge from
nursing and other disciplines in the care of childbearing and parenting
families

--- Page 675 ---
706  Nursing (Accelerated BSN)
MCN 273L   Family Health Patterns I: Lab   (3 Credit Hours)   
Co-requisites:  Must enroll on MCN 273   
No course description is available
MCN 374   Family Health Patterns II: Care of the Child and Family   (3
Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Must have taken and passed MSN 277 and 277L,
GNUR 294 with a C- or better; Must also enroll in MCN 374L   
This course uses the Health People 2010 initiative to structure the
presentation of selected concepts related to the health promotion, health
maintenance and health restoration of infants, children, adolescents and
their families.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to use critical thinking to apply knowled ge from
nursing and other disciplines in the care of infants, children, adolescents
and their families
MCN 374L   Family Health Patterns II: Lab   (3 Credit Hours)   
Co-requisites:  Must also enroll in MCN 374   
No course description is available
Medical/Surgical Nursing (MSN)
MSN 277   Medical/Surgical Nursing: Adult Health I   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Must have taken and passed PSYC 273 or PSYC 274 and
GNUR 294 with a C- or better OR Must have taken and passed PSYC 273
or PSYC 274 with a C- or better and be enrolled in GNUR 294   
This course is designed to use levels of prevention to provide nursing
care for adults with selected health issues. Emphasis is placed on health
promotion, early detection and treatment and restoration of health for
individuals, families and communities across the health care continuum.
MSN 277L   Medical/Surgical Nursing: Adult Health Lab I   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Must also enroll in MSN 277. This course is designed to apply levels
of prevention in nursing care for adults with selected health issues.
Emphasis is placed on health promotion, early detection and treatment
and restoration of health for individuals, families, and communities
across the health care continuum.
MSN 377   Adult Health II - Advanced Medical-Surgical   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Must have taken and passed MSN 277, MSN 277L,
GNUR 290, GNUR 294, GNUR 360,with a C- or better; Must also enroll in
MSN 377L   
This course builds on MSN 277, Adult Health I, and focuses on the
nursing care of adults experiencing selected critical health issues.
Physical, psychosocial, cultural, spiritual assessments and health data
are incorporated into the identiﬁcation of interventions within the context
of life-threatening conditions. Students incorporate evidence-based
practice guidelines and interdisciplinary collaboration to maximize health
outcomes.
Outcomes:
Nursing care of adults experiencing selected critical health issuesMSN 377L   Adult Health II - Advanced Medical Surgical Clinical   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Must also enroll in MSN 377. This course builds on MSN 277L, Adult
Health I Clinical, and focuses on the nursing care of adults experiencing
selected critical health issues. Physical, psychosocial, cultural, spiritual
assessments and health data are obtained and interventions are provided
within the context of life-threatening conditions. Students incorporate
evidence-based practice guidelines and interdisciplinary collaboration to
maximize health outcomes.
Outcomes:
Nursing care of adults experiencing selected critical health issues -
clinical
Nursing (Accelerated BSN)
The Accelerated BSN track of the BSN program is designed for college
graduates who want to transition to a career as a professional registered
nurse.  Pre-requisite arts and sciences courses are completed prior to
admission.  The 16-month full-time program includes the major courses
of the BSN program.
The Accelerated BSN track of the BSN program is offered in two learning
options.
Onsite Option
Courses meet in person on the Health Sciences Campus in Maywood,
Illinois. Laboratory and simulation experiences are completed at the
Health Sciences Campus and clinical learning experiences are completed
throughout the Chicagoland area.
Hybrid Learning Option
The hybrid learning option includes online coursework, laborato ry,
simulation, and class meeting times at the Health Sciences Campus
in Maywood, Illinois and clinical learning experiences at Chicago area
healthcare facilities.
Contact us  (https://absn.luc.edu/contact-us/ ) to learn more about our
Accelerated BSN program options near Chicago.
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
CMAN 272 Mental Health Patterns 3CMAN 272LMental Health Patterns: Lab3
CMAN 380 Community Health 3CMAN 380LCommunity Health: Lab3
GNUR 207 Concepts of Professional Nursing Practice 2GNUR 238The Foundations of Clinical Practice in Nursing3
GNUR 238L Foundations of Clinical Practice in Nursing Lab 1GNUR 290Concepts in Older Adult Health2
GNUR 293 Pathophysiology 4GNUR 294Foundations of Pharmacology3
GNUR 297 Clinical Nutrition for Nursing Practice 2GNUR 360Nursing Research: For Evidence-Based Practice3
GNUR 361 Nursing Ethics 3GNUR 383Leadership for Professional Nursing Practice3
GNUR 384 Clinical Role Transition 3MCN 273Family Health Patterns I3
MCN 273L Family Health Patterns I: Lab 3

--- Page 676 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 707MCN 374Family Health Patterns II: Care of the Child and
Family3
MCN 374L Family Health Patterns II: Lab 3MSN 277Medical/Surgical Nursing: Adult Health I4
MSN 277L Medical/Surgical Nursing: Adult Health Lab I 3MSN 377Adult Health II - Advanced Medical-Surgical4MSN 377LAdult Health II - Advanced Medical Surgical Clinical3Total Hours67
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The sequence of courses outlined below is the program plan for students
in the Accelerated BSN (ABSN) track of the program.
Course Title Hours
First Semester
GNUR 207 Concepts of Professional Nursing Practice 2GNUR 238The Foundations of Clinical Practice in
Nursing3
GNUR 238L Foundations of Clinical Practice in Nursing
Lab1GNUR 293Pathophysiology4
GNUR 297 Clinical Nutrition for Nursing Practice 2GNUR 360Nursing Research: For Evidence-Based
Practice3 Hours15
Second SemesterGNUR 290Concepts in Older Adult Health2
GNUR 294 Foundations of Pharmacology 3MSN 277Medical/Surgical Nursing: Adult Health I4
MSN 277L Medical/Surgical Nursing: Adult Health Lab
I3CMAN 272Mental Health Patterns3CMAN 272LMental Health Patterns: Lab3 Hours18
Third Semester
MCN 273 Family Health Patterns I 3MCN 273LFamily Health Patterns I: Lab3
MCN 374 Family Health Patterns II: Care of the Child
and Family3MCN 374LFamily Health Patterns II: Lab3
CMAN 380 Community Health 3CMAN 380LCommunity Health: Lab3 Hours18
Fourth SemesterGNUR 383Leadership for Professional Nursing
Practice3
GNUR 384 Clinical Role Transition 3GNUR 402Ethics for Health Professionals2
MSN 377 Adult Health II - Advanced Medical-Surgical 4MSN 377LAdult Health II - Advanced Medical Surgical
Clinical3 Hours15 Total Hours66Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
The ABSN track has the same learning outcomes as the BSN Program.
The goal of the BSN program is to prepare baccalaureate generalist
nurses. At the completion of the program, graduates are expected to:
•Synthesize knowledge from liberal arts, sciences, and nursing science
as a basis for professional nursing practice.
•Integrate levels of prevention, quality, safety concepts and principles
and leadership into professional nursing practice.
•Provide culturally competent, effective and patient-centered
professional nursing care to individuals, families and communities
across the lifespan.
•Demonstrate the ability to effectively communicate and collaborate
with the patient and interprofessional team to deliver evidence-based,
safe, patient-centered care to individuals, families and communities.
•Integrate values, ethics and legal knowledge into nursing practice.
•Integrate scientiﬁc evidence and patient, family and community
preferences into the planning, implementation and evaluation of
professional nursing care.
•Apply skills of information technology and information management
effectively in professional nursing practice.
•Analyze ways governmental, institutional and professional policies
directly and indirectly influence the healthcare system and population
health.
Nursing (BSN)
Preparing the next generation of nurses.
Bachelor of Science in Nursing students have the opportunity to take part
in a traditional college experience at Loyola University Chicago's Lake
Shore Campus, while gaining experience at world-class clinical sites in
the Chicago area. Under the mentorship, supervision, and guidance of
faculty, students  will learn to think critically, analyze complex situations,
make sound clinical decisions, and deliver safe nursing care. Beyond
the requisite nursing competencies needed to care for clients, Loyola's
BSN program truly prepares graduates to learn, adapt, and grow in their
nursing career.
Not a graduating high school senior? Loyola also offers an Accelerated
BSN program  (p. 706).
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesGNUR 102Introduction to Professional Nursing Practice1
GNUR 157 Human Anatomy and Physiology I Theory 3GNUR 157LHuman Anatomy and Physiology I Lab1
GNUR 158 Human Anatomy and Physiology II Theory 3GNUR 158LHuman Anatomy and Physiology II Lab1

--- Page 677 ---
708  Nursing (BSN)
GNUR 160 
& 160LChemistry for Health Professions 
and Chemistry for Health Professions Lab4GNUR 203Microbiology for Health Professions with Lab3
GNUR 207 Concepts of Professional Nursing Practice 2GNUR 238 
& 238LThe Foundations of Clinical Practice in Nursing 
and Foundations of Clinical Practice in Nursing
Lab4
GNUR 290 Concepts in Older Adult Health 2GNUR 293Pathophysiology4
GNUR 294 Foundations of Pharmacology 3GNUR 297Clinical Nutrition for Nursing Practice2
GNUR 360 Nursing Research: For Evidence-Based Practice 3GNUR 361Nursing Ethics3
GNUR 383 Leadership for Professional Nursing Practice 3GNUR 384Clinical Role Transition3
MSN 277 
& 277LMedical/Surgical Nursing: Adult Health I 
and Medical/Surgical Nursing: Adult Health Lab I7MSN 377 
& 377LAdult Health II - Advanced Medical-Surgical 
and Adult Health II - Advanced Medical Surgical
Clinical7
MCN 273 
& 273LFamily Health Patterns I 
and Family Health Patterns I: Lab6MCN 374 
& 374LFamily Health Patterns II: Care of the Child and
Family 
and Family Health Patterns II: Lab6
CMAN 272 
& 272LMental Health Patterns 
and Mental Health Patterns: Lab6CMAN 380 
& 380LCommunity Health 
and Community Health: Lab6Total Hours83
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
First Year
Fall
GNUR 155 
& 155LHuman Anatomy 
and Human Anatomy Lab4GNUR 160 
& 160LChemistry for Health Professions 
and Chemistry for Health Professions Lab4
PSYC 101 General Psychology 3UNIV 101First Year Seminar1
Select one of the following: 3UCWR 110Writing Responsibly CORE  Hours15
Spring
GNUR 102 Introduction to Professional Nursing
Practice1GNUR 156 
& 156LHuman Physiology 
and Human Physiology Lab4PSYC 304 
or STAT 103Statistics 
or Fundamentals of Statistics3CORE3
CORE 3Select one of the following:3
UCWR 110 Writing Responsibly  CORE  Hours17
Second Year
FallStudents are placed in Plan A or Plan B13-17
Plan A:  GNUR 203Microbiology for Health Professions with
Lab 
GNUR 207 Concepts of Professional Nursing Practice  PSYC 273 
or PSYC 274Developmental Psychology 
or Lifespan Development 
CORE  CORE 
CORE  Plan B: 
GNUR 238 
& 238LThe Foundations of Clinical Practice in
Nursing 
and Foundations of Clinical Practice in
Nursing Lab GNUR 293Pathophysiology 
CORE  GNUR 297Clinical Nutrition for Nursing Practice  Hours13-17
SpringSelect one of the following plans:13-17
Plan B:  GNUR 203Microbiology for Health Professions with
Lab 
GNUR 207 Concepts of Professional Nursing Practice  PSYC 273 
or PSYC 274Developmental Psychology 
or Lifespan Development 
CORE  CORE 
CORE  Plan A: 
GNUR 238 
& 238LThe Foundations of Clinical Practice in
Nursing 
and Foundations of Clinical Practice in
Nursing Lab GNUR 293Pathophysiology 
GNUR 297 Clinical Nutrition for Nursing Practice  CORE  Hours13-17
Third Year
FallGNUR 294Foundations of Pharmacology3

--- Page 678 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 709
MSN 277 
& 277LMedical/Surgical Nursing: Adult Health I 
and Medical/Surgical Nursing: Adult
Health Lab I7GNUR 290Concepts in Older Adult Health2CORE3 Hours15
Spring
GNUR 360 Nursing Research: For Evidence-Based
Practice3CORE3
Students are placed in Plan A or Plan B: 12Plan A: 
MCN 273 
& 273LFamily Health Patterns I 
and Family Health Patterns I: Lab MCN 374 
& MCN 273LFamily Health Patterns II: Care of the Child
and Family 
and Family Health Patterns I: Lab 
Plan B:  CMAN 272 
& 272LMental Health Patterns 
and Mental Health Patterns: Lab CMAN 380 
& 380LCommunity Health 
and Community Health: Lab  Hours18
Fourth Year
Fall
GNUR 361 Nursing Ethics 3Students continue in Plan A or Plan B:12
Plan A:  CMAN 272 
& 272LMental Health Patterns 
and Mental Health Patterns: Lab 
CMAN 380 
& 380LCommunity Health 
and Community Health: Lab Plan B: 
MCN 273 
& 273LFamily Health Patterns I 
and Family Health Patterns I: Lab MCN 374 
& 374LFamily Health Patterns II: Care of the Child
and Family 
and Family Health Patterns II: Lab  Hours15
SpringMSN 377Adult Health II - Advanced Medical-Surgical
(4 credits over 14 weeks )4
MSN 377L Adult Health II - Advanced Medical Surgical
Clinical ( 3 credits over 7 weeks )3GNUR 383Leadership for Professional Nursing
Practice ( 3 credits over 7 weeks )3GNUR 384Clinical Role Transition ( 3 credits over 7
weeks )3 Hours13 Total Hours119-127
Total credits in program: 123 
Total credits from major: 92Clinical Rotations
Students complete seven clinical rotations at a variety of acute care,
community based, and primary care health care organizations.
Clinical Role Transition (CRT)
Through preceptor-based learning and seminars, this experience focuses
on assimilating the role behaviors of a professional nurse as a provider,
designer, manager, and coordinator of care in health care systems.
Clinical reasoning, critical thinking, prioritization, and the integration of
knowledge are emphasized in this experience, focusing on the provision
of patient-centered, evidence-based care as a member of an inter-
professional health care team.
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
The goal of the BSN program is to prepare baccalaureate generalist
nurses.
At the completion of the program, graduates are expected to:
•Synthesize knowledge from liberal arts, sciences, and nursing science
as a basis for professional nursing practice.
•Integrate levels of prevention, quality, safety concepts and principles
and leadership into professional nursing practice.
•Provide culturally competent, effective and patient-centered
professional nursing care to individuals, families and communities
across the lifespan.
•Demonstrate the ability to effectively communicate and collaborate
with the patient and interprofessional team to deliver evidence-based,
safe, patient-centered care to individuals, families and communities.
•Integrate values, ethics and legal knowledge into nursing practice.
•Integrate scientiﬁc evidence and patient, family and community
preferences into the planning, implementation and evaluation of
professional nursing care.
•Apply skills of information technology and information management
effectively in professional nursing practice.
•Analyze ways governmental, institutional and professional policies
directly and indirectly influence the healthcare system and population
health.
Parkinson School of Health Sciences
and Public Health
Loyola University Chicago's Parkinson School of Health Sciences and
Public Health brings together our call as a Jesuit institution to go to the
frontiers of education, research, and practice, and help people who live at
the margins.
An established leader in health care education with the Stritch School
of Medicine and the Marcella Niehoff School of Nursing, the Parkinson
School of Health Sciences and Public Health draws on those strengths
to address today’s public health challenges and train the next generation

--- Page 679 ---
710  Parkinson School of Health Sciences and Public Health
of experts in public health, health systems and informatics, dietetics,
exercise science, and medical laboratory science.
Flexible degree programs as well as certiﬁcates in applied health
sciences, health informatics and data science, health care administration,
and public health meet student, community, and industry needs. The
Parkinson School includes programs for undergraduate and graduate
students, as well as career professionals who seek additional skills or
a career change. Innovative and accessible program formats for adult
learners along with traditional undergraduates include online instruction
and hybrid learning programs on Loyola’s Health Sciences Campus
and Lakeshore campuses. Insight into the student experience  (https://
www.luc.edu/features/stories/parkinson/ ).
Undergraduate Programs
•Environmental Science/Public Health (BS/MPH)  (p. 1153 )
•Exercise Science (BS)  (p. 720)
•Exercise Science (BS/MS)  (p. 1192 )
•Healthcare Administration (BS)  (p. 721)
•Healthcare Administration (BS/MHA)  (p. 1227 )
•Healthcare Administration Minor  (p. 723)
•Healthcare Administration/Business (BS/MBA)  (p. 1231 )
•Healthcare Administration/Public Health (BS/MPH)  (p. 1234 )
•Nutrition Minor  (p. 724)
•Public Health (BA)  (p. 724)
•Public Health (BS)  (p. 728)
•Public Health (BS/MPH)  (p. 1332 )
Parkinson School of Health Sciences and
Public Health Policies
Each student is required to abide by Loyola University Chicago policies
in addition to Parkinson School of Health Sciences and Public Health
policies. Loyola policies for undergraduate students may be found in the
University Catalog. Parkinson School handbooks and policies are listed
below:
•Parkinson Undergraduate Student Handbook 2023-2024  (https://
catalog.luc.edu/undergraduate/health-sciences-public-health/
Parkinson_Undergraduate_Student_Handbook_2023-2024.pdf )
•Internal Transfer Application  (https://www.luc.edu/media/
lucedu/parkinson/departments/publichealthsciences/
Internal_Transfer_Application_19-20.pdf )
Cumulative GPA Requirement
Students must maintain a grade point average of at least 2.00 to be in
good academic standing. Graduation from the university requires at least
a 2.00 average for all coursework attempted and a minimum of a least a
2.00 average in a student's major.
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.University Policies
Please see University Policies for academic policies that supersede those
of academic units within the University
Exercise Physiology (EXCM)
EXCM 101   Introduction to Exercise Physiology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Introduction to the major; also includes a lab component covering
Emergency Procedures and Safety Skills, introduction to common safety
principles, predisposing factors and common causes of accidents,
injuries and illnesses.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
EXCM 110   Soccer Skill and Strategy Activity Lab   (1 Credit Hour)   
Soccer, the most popular sport played worldwide, is a team game that
requires skill, communication, and strategy to maximize success.
This course is designed to provide students with a comprehensive
understanding of the fundamental skills, techniques, and strategic
aspects of soccer. Through practical training sessions and tactical
discussions, students will develop individual and team-based
competencies necessary for success on the soccer ﬁeld. This course
is suitable for students of all skill levels, from beginners with minimal
soccer experience to those with prior playing backgrounds. 2) Understand
physical ﬁtness components of playing soccer. 3) Perform drills to train a
soccer player.
Outcomes:
1) Describe the technical and tactical skills needed to play a soccer
match
EXCM 111   Weight Training and Conditioning Activity Lab   (1 Credit
Hour)   
This course combines practical training sessions with theoretical
knowledge to help students understand the principles of developing
strength, endurance, and overall physical ﬁtness through weightlifting
and conditioning exercises. Throughout the semester, students
will engage in resistance training exercises using free weights and
bodyweight exercises. Emphasis will be placed on proper form, technique,
and safety to ensure a foundation for long-term success in weight
training. Additionally, students will learn how to set realistic ﬁtness
goals, and track their progress over time. 2) Understand implementation
of weightlifting and aerobic conditioning exercise to improve health
outcomes. 3) Perform training exercises with proper technique.
Outcomes:
1) Describe proper technique for weight training and conditioning
exercises
EXCM 112   Yoga and Mindfulness Activity Lab   (1 Credit Hour)   
This course offers students an opportunity to explore the transformative
practices of yoga and mindfulness, fostering physical well-being, mental
clarity, and emotional balance. The course integrates yoga-based
practices with contemporary mindfulness techniques, providing a holistic
approach to enhancing overall health and wellness. The classes will
focus on developing flexibility, strength, and balance through yoga
postures (asanas), breath control (pranayama), and meditation. 2)
Understand yoga-based postures to counteract movement deﬁciencies
associated with modern living. 3) Perform yoga postures with proper
technique.
Outcomes:
1) Describe yoga philosophy and its relevance in modern day living

--- Page 680 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 711
EXCM 113   Fitness Boxing Activity Lab   (1 Credit Hour)   
This is an activity-based course that provides students the opportunity to
learn and perform boxing techniques. Stances, punching, combinations,
blocks, and non-contact sparring drills will be presented. The rules
of boxing are introduced. Engage in boxing while observing safety
guidelines. 2. Perform offensive and defensive techniques. 3.
Demonstrate proper non-contact sparring techniques.
Outcomes:
1
EXCM 114   Basics of Power Lifting Activity Lab   (1 Credit Hour)   
This is an activity-based course that provides students with the
opportunity to learn and perform powerlifting exercises. The focus is
on teaching competition rules and standards on the back squat, bench
press and deadlift as well as variations that may improve performance.
Understand the physiological adaptations that occur because of
Powerlifting. 2. Perform proper technique for Powerlifting lifts and
variations of those lifts. 3. Identify competition rules and stipulations of
the Powerlifting lifts.
Outcomes:
1
EXCM 115   NCCA Personal Training Elective   (1 Credit Hour)   
This course encompasses an overview of key Exercise Science,
training methodology and health behavior change principles. Students
will then apply each principle into practice through screening and
evaluation, exercise program design, and ethical, legal and professional
responsibilities and guidelines.
Outcomes:
Upon successful completion of the course, the student will be able to:
Apply key exercise science, training methodology and health behavior
change principles in context to the provision of exercise; Apply the
practice of exercise and ﬁtness screening and assessment, health
appraisal and risk stratiﬁcation, while simultaneously integrating ethical
considerations and client preferences
EXCM 117   NCCA Group Fitness   (1 Credit Hour)   
This course encompasses an overview of group exercise; to include
cardiovascular exercise, strength training and stretching. Students will
learn how to lead, instruct and motivate individuals or groups in exercise
activities.
Outcomes:
Upon successful completion of the course, the student will be able to:
Apply effective, exercise science-based group sessions for different
ﬁtness levels; Explain proper technique, demonstrate exercise, and teach
appropriate methods to strengthen and stretch certain muscles
EXCM 125   Faith, Sports, and Fitness   (3 Credit Hours)   
Explore the relationship between faith and sports through a historical
context, develop a theological model for engaging in sports and physical
activity, and discover ways to improve the mind-body-spirit connection
through ﬁtness. Through examination of books, articles, podcasts,
documentaries, and current events, this course will discuss topics such
as Muscular Christianity, spirituality, athlete identity, sports ministries,
cura personalis, and faith-based physical activity.
Outcomes:
1) Identify basic terminology and knowledge about faith, sports, and
ﬁtness; 2) Examine the history of Catholicism, Christianity, and other
religions, and how they impact sports and human well-being; 3) Interpret
sports and religion through the ﬁve areas: social, historical, cultural,
theological and ethicalEXCM 155   Anatomy and Physiology I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Restricted to Undergraduate Exercise Science Majors   
A detailed study of the human body and its systems. Applied Human
Anatomy and Physiology I course will cover rudimentary anatomy and
physiology consisting of cell structure and formation, histology, and the
integumentary, skeletal, muscular, and nervous systems.
Outcomes:
Understand physiologic functions regarding molecular components, cells,
tissues, organ systems and multicellular organisms
EXCM 155L   Anatomy and Physiology I Lab   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  Restricted to Undergraduate Exercise Science Majors   
A detailed study of the human body and its systems. Applied Human
Anatomy and Physiology I course will cover rudimentary anatomy and
physiology consisting of cell structure and formation, histology, and the
integumentary, skeletal, muscular, and nervous systems.
Outcomes:
Understand physiologic functions regarding molecular components, cells,
tissues, organ systems and multicellular organisms
EXCM 156   Anatomy and Physiology II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Restricted to Undergraduate Exercise Science Majors   
A detailed study of the human body and its systems. Applied Human
Anatomy and Physiology I course will cover rudimentary anatomy and
physiology consisting of cell structure and formation, histology, and the
integumentary, skeletal, muscular, and nervous systems.
Outcomes:
Understand physiologic functions regarding molecular components, cells,
tissues, organ systems and multicellular organisms
EXCM 156L   Anatomy and Physiology II Lab   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  Restricted to Undergraduate Exercise Science Majors   
A detailed study of the human body and its systems. Applied Human
Anatomy and Physiology I course will cover rudimentary anatomy and
physiology consisting of cell structure and formation, histology, and the
integumentary, skeletal, muscular, and nervous systems.
Outcomes:
Understand physiologic functions regarding molecular components, cells,
tissues, organ systems and multicellular organisms
EXCM 170   Women's Health and Exercise   (1 Credit Hour)   
This course presents perspectives on physical activity and exercise
science speciﬁc to women. It will include the identiﬁcation of issues
during various stages of development in the female body and barriers
and beneﬁts of exercise unique to women. Students will apply these
perspectives to exercise program design and health care interactions
with all clients.
Outcomes:
1) Understand the unique circumstances and outcomes of working
with women in the ﬁeld of wellness and ﬁtness; 2) Identify preventative
strategies (such as exercise prescription and nutrition guidance) that can
compensate for health risks, issues, and deﬁciencies that female clients
and patients may experience throughout their life; 3) Explain exercise
modiﬁcations and varied beneﬁts during speciﬁc periods in a woman's
life (adolescents, pregnancy, postpartum, menopause)
EXCM 201   Physiology of Exercise   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  EXCM 101 and Anatomy & Physiology (GNUR 155/155L
and GNUR 156/156L)   
The physiological functions of the body and the effect of exercise on
these functions.

--- Page 681 ---
712  Parkinson School of Health Sciences and Public Health
EXCM 210   Program Design in Exercise   (2 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  EXCM 201   
This course focuses on the design, implementation and evaluation
of exercise programs through case-based application and classroom
activities. Health-related components of ﬁtness and ﬁtness assessments
are reviewed. Individual and group exercise program designs within
community-based settings for individuals through the life cycle are
discussed. Evidence-based content is identiﬁed to critically analyze
and develop conditioning programs and techniques for a broad range of
sports and activities. Important elements of program design are used to
emphasize desired client program outcomes.
Outcomes:
At the successful completion of the course, the student will be able
to: 1) Lead designed group exercises and activities which consider
individual needs and differences; 2) Apply training principles and program
variables to increase strength, endurance, power, or hypertrophy for
the identiﬁed client or population; 3) Evaluate the designed exercise
prescribed over time for an individual and/ special population; 4)
Integrate cognate materials necessary to support the full development of
physical performance including nutrition, environment, mobility, clothing
and equipment; 5) Design individualized exercise programs for individuals
and special groups; 6) Adjust exercise programs based on individual
performance and safety considerations
EXCM 301   Advanced Physiology of Exercise   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  EXCM 201 and Anatomy & Physiology (GNUR 155/155L
and GNUR 156/156L)   
An advanced course in exercise physiology covering exercise
metabolism, temperature regulation and fluid balance.
EXCM 342   Physical Growth, Development and Nutrition   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  EXCM 101   
A survey of the various components involved in personal health and
wellness, such as personal ﬁtness, sexuality, mental health, and
environmental health as related to the stages of life development.
EXCM 345   Therapeutic Exercise and Rehabilitation   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (EXCM 101 & 201) and (BIOL 243 or GNUR 156 &156L)   
Explanation and demonstration of the use of therapeutic modalities in
the healing process. This will include discussion of the use of therapeutic
modalities to enhance the rehabilitation process after athletic injury.
EXCM 350   Sports Nutrition   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  EXCM 201, CHEM 102 & CHEM 112   
This course introduces the essentials of human nutrition for health and
emphasizes the roles of key nutrients for athletic performance. This
foundational material will be applied to athletic performance including
adaptation and recommendations for training and competition. Nutrient
recommendations will be reviewed for speciﬁc types of sports, exercise
and other athletic concerns. The metabolic basis for sports nutrition
recommendations is examined.
EXCM 352   Musculoskeletal Assessment and Strength Training   (4 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  EXCM 201 and Anatomy & Physiology (GNUR 155/155L
and GNUR 156/156L)   
This course will present the general principal and foundational skills
for each component of the injury examination. These general principles
will be applied to the recognition and examination of injuries/conditions
speciﬁc to each body region. Address general medical conditions will
likely encounter with patients.EXCM 364   Intro to Clinical Exercise Testing and Prescription   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  EXCM 201 and Anatomy & Physiology (GNUR 155/155L
and GNUR 156/156L)   
This class summarizes recommended procedures, including EKG
and other stress testing modalities, for exercise testing and exercise
prescription in healthy and diseased individuals.
EXCM 368   Advanced Clinical Testing and Prescriptions   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  EXCM 201 and Anatomy & Physiology (GNUR 155/155L
and GNUR 156/156L)   
This course focuses on physiological implications of metabolic
conditions such as diabetes, cardiac and pulmonary disease on exercise.
The course includes modiﬁcations to exercise testing and in-depth
preparation for exercise prescription based on diseases and special
conditions. The course reviews contraindications and considerations for
exercise, EKG interpretation and implications of physiological responses
to exercise. Behavioral strategies to implement in client exercise planning
and education are addressed. Exercise prescription is discussed as part
of the ongoing evaluation of client performance.
Outcomes:
At the successful completion of the course, the student will be able to:
1) Create patient/client focused exercise programs, with modiﬁcations
and progressive programming based on physiologic alterations; 2)
Understand the effect of exercise on the physiological systems of
the body and disease states; 3) Analyze exercise testing data from
healthy individuals and individuals with physiological alterations; 4)
Evaluate EKG responses to exercise; 5) Implement testing protocols and
modiﬁcations for individuals with physiological alterations; 6) Understand
acute responses and chronic adaptations to exercise and the impact on
individuals with physiological adaptations
EXCM 375   Special Populations in Exercise Science   (2 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  EXCM 201 and EXCM 364   
This course provides practical information on exercise for persons
with a wide range of health conditions, diseases and disabilities. Best-
practice exercise prescription protocols for individuals across the life
span will be addressed. An overview of unique physiology, effects of the
condition on the exercise response, and effects of exercise training on the
condition will be discussed. Recommendations for exercise testing and
programming are presented for select populations.
Outcomes:
At the successful completion of the course, the student will be able
to: 1) Understand the relations between health conditions, disease,
disability and physical activity; 2) Establish physical activity outcomes
in individuals with health conditions, diseases or disabilities; 3) Modify
existing physical activity prescriptions to match individual capabilities
and needs; 4) Demonstrate an understanding of the risks and beneﬁts
associated with exercise participation: 5) Analyze the results of exercise
tests and ﬁtness evaluations in various populations; 6) Modify equipment
arrangement and facility resources to accommodate use by individuals
with special needs
EXCM 382   Clinical Research: Methods, Design and Ethics w/Lab   (3
Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  EXCM 201 and STAT 103   
Study of current literature with implications for exercise and sport
science specializations; use of library resources and retrieval systems;
evaluation of professional competencies.

--- Page 682 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 713
EXCM 385   Kinesiology and Sports Biomechanics w/Lab   (4 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHYS 112 and Anatomy & Physiology (GNUR 155/155L and
GNUR 156/156L)   
Analysis of human movement with emphasis on the biomechanics of
exercise and sport movement patterns.
EXCM 387   Movement Anatomy in Exercise   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  EXCM 385   
Concepts and principles from anatomy and biomechanics are integrated
into the analysis of human movement. This course focuses on
application of the principles of human movement for normal function
and application to different levels of physical performance through
case based applications and classroom activities. Content includes
anatomical lever systems, moment arms, stability and laws of motion.
Systematic analysis of human movement in clinical conditions,
performance, and wellness settings will be reviewed. Development of
individual plans to improve movement is woven throughout the course.
Outcomes:
At the successful completion of the course, the student will be able
to: 1) Explain the relationship between biomechanics, anatomy and
human movement; 2) Understand upper and lower limb musculoskeletal
anatomy, physiology, and function; 3) Apply functional anatomy in the
analysis of normal physical performance; 4) Develop individualized plans
to correct movement based on the assessment of the individual; 5)
Evaluate movement techniques in various populations; 6) Evaluate client
outcomes as a result of prescribed exercise modiﬁcations to improve
movement patterns
EXCM 390   Psychology of Health and Exercise   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  EXCM 201 and PSYC 273   
This course will present current research with focus on the leading
theories and applications in health and exercise psychology. The
implications and applications of research and practice for health behavior
change by health and ﬁtness professionals in diverse populations at the
societal and individual levels will also be reviewed.
EXCM 395   Clinical Internship and Patient Management   (6 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  EXCM 201 and Anatomy & Physiology (GNUR 155/155L
and GNUR 156/156L), 4 of 8 upper division EXCM courses   
Practical experience working with exercise physiologists, physical
therapists, occupational therapists, rehabilitation therapists, and others,
in cardiac care and orthopedic rehabilitation.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
EXCM 399   Special Topics in Physical Therapy   (2 Credit Hours)   
This course covers the general areas of physical therapy, as well as
a relevant topic in physical therapy. This course will be offered as an
elective and open to all students. Recommend evidence-based practices
using cases studies (ie exercise prescription, patient education, society
level affects).
Outcomes:
Examine various research and writing to gain understanding and
knowledge in the areas of physical therapy; Evaluate scientiﬁc literature;
Explore the impact a physical therapist has on their patient through
movement improvement, pain management and preventionFood and Nutrition (FONU)
FONU 110   Culinary Explorations   (3 Credit Hours)   
Translate food and nutrition recommendations into delicious and
realistic, food-based meals using basic culinary techniques. Examine
the major food groups including both common and uncommon foods in
each category. Explore ways to incorporate a variety of foods into meals
considering budget, health, availability, personal values and preference.
Outcomes:
Upon successful completion of this course, the student will be able
to: 1) describe foods in major food category; 2) explain food based
recommendations to promote nutritional adequacy and health; 3)
demonstrate culinary competence by recipe preparation; 4) critique a
unique recipe that they developed; 5) plan menus for a week that meet
speciﬁed criteria
FONU 215   Fundamentals of Nutrition   (3 Credit Hours)   
For non-majors. Nutrients essential to a healthy diet, consideration of
nutrition issues of public concern.
FONU 225   Food as Culture   (3 Credit Hours)   
Explore culture through foods and food ways across the globe.
This course examines food patterns of each continent using a
multidimensional approach. Ethnic, geographical, religious, historical,
geographical, and societal influences on food patterns of various regions
and people will be presented through didactic and experiential activities.
Information will be presented with the perspective of enhancing
engagement and build positive relationships with future clients and
communities served.
Outcomes:
Upon successful completion of this course, the student will be able to:
1) identify common food sources of nutrients in the eating patterns of
selected cultures; 2) describe foods, dishes and preparation methods
common to selected nations and cultures; 3) explain traditional food use
in selected cultures including infant feeding and illness; 4) compare and
contrast typical American to specialized ethnic retail food markets; 5)
discuss experiences with ethnic food
FONU 320   Nutrition Through the Life Cycle   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FONU 215 Fundamentals of Nutrition   
Learn about nutrient needs through the lifecycle from birth through aging
to support optimal health and human potential. Key nutrition concepts
to support normal growth and development, health maintenance, and
disease prevention will be included. Nutrient needs will be translated
to food-based solutions as an integral component of health habits.
Community resources will be examined.
Outcomes:
Upon successful completion of this course, the student will be able to: 1)
describe the needs and roles of key nutrients at various stages of the life
cycle; 2) translate nutrient needs into food-based solutions appropriate
for life cycle stage; 3) explain common issues related to nutrition and
food patterns speciﬁc to life cycle stage; 4) recommend community
resources appropriate to life cycle stage

--- Page 683 ---
714  Parkinson School of Health Sciences and Public Health
Health Systems Management (HSM)
HSM 110   Healthcare in America   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces the U.S. healthcare system and compares
it to systems in other developed nations. Emphasis is given to the
government's dominant role in health care delivery, payment and
regulation, as well as the differences between public health and health
care systems. The social justice implications of cost, quality and access
are highlighted.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Describe the evolution of health care in America and the influence of
history on the current health care system; Demonstrate knowledge of
the structure and functions of the US health care system; Identify at
an introductory level the political, economic and social factors that
shape the US health care system; Describe the inter-relationships among
healthcare stakeholders including providers, suppliers, payers' workforce,
and consumers; Recognize the issues of health care disparities, access
to care and social justice present in the current US health care system;
Identify criteria for evaluating the evolving and changing US health care
system; Compare the US health care system to those of other developed
nations
HSM 120   Essentials of Medical Terminology for Health Professionals   (1
Credit Hour)   
This course introduces students to the language of the health
professions. Word structure, preﬁxes and sufﬁxes, and rules of building
and analyzing medical words are introduced. Students explore terms
relating to anatomy, pathology, diagnostic and clinical procedures, and
select medical specialties. Emphasis is given to deﬁning, interpreting and
pronouncing medical terminology.
Outcomes:
Identify structure of medical vocabulary including preﬁxes, sufﬁxes
and root words; Apply the rules of building medical terms; Recognize
and deﬁne medical terms relating to anatomical structure and function,
pathology, diagnostic and clinical procedures, and medical specialties;
Use medical terminology accurately in context
HSM 200   Careers in Healthcare Administration   (2 Credit Hours)   
This course provides an introduction to healthcare administration
careers. Students explore the various sectors and supporting industries
making up the larger healthcare enterprise. Administrative career options
and industry growth patterns are presented. Students are introduced
to working professionals and professional organizations representing
various sectors of the healthcare industry. Class discussions integrate
healthcare industry vocabulary and jargon.
Outcomes:
Upon successful completion of this course, the student will be able to:
1) Distinguish healthcare sectors and supporting industries; 2) Describe
a variety of roles and functions within healthcare administration; 3)
Identify various entry points into a healthcare administration career; and
4) Explore areas of interest for career considerationHSM 210   Introduction to Global Healthcare Delivery   (3 Credit Hours)   
Social determinants of health, comparative health systems, global
health initiatives and their effects on health outcomes are addressed.
Students examine current issues impacting global population health
and improvements in care locally and worldwide. Roles of governmental,
institutional and corporate organizations in ﬁnancing, governing and
delivering worldwide healthcare are studied.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics, Global Studies, Bioethics, Global
Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  X-HSM210/PUBH314/ENVS385   
Outcomes:
At the successful completion of the course, the student will be able to: 1)
Identify major global health care strengths and challenges; 2) Develop a
broad worldview of communities and countries with different lifestyles,
economics, and geopolitical systems and how these differences impact
health care; 3) Explain the characteristics and roles of governments, non-
governmental organizations (NGO's) and public/private partnerships as
relates to health and health care around the world; 4) Analyze the impact
of globalization on health and healthcare systems; 5) Assess the ethical
and social justice issues associated with health inequities around the
world; 6) Address a global health care issue, analyze the issue using
relevant theoretical concepts and recommend a course of action
HSM 220   Post-Acute & Long-Term Care Management   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines healthcare delivery models designed to meet
the needs of older adults and those with disabilities and chronic health
conditions. It explores the experience of the patients and caregivers
receiving these services as well as the professional workforce who
provides them. It also examines the methodologies used to make
decisions that impact internal and external customers.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Analyze the challenges and opportunities faced by the US healthcare
system related to changing demographics; Apply theories of aging and
disability to the management of post-acute and long-term care services;
Compare healthcare delivery models used in post-acute and long-term
care services; Articulate the roles, responsibilities, and challenges faced
by post-acute and long-term care professionals; Articulate the social
justice and ethical issues associated with aging and disability in the
context \\nof post-acute and long-term care environments
HSM 230   Fundamentals of Health Equity   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  HSM 110 (Can also be taken as a corequisite)   
This course introduces the concept of health equity and provides an
overview of health disparities in the U.S. Students examine the root
causes of and explore populations most affected by health inequities.
The course explores system approaches and strategies aimed at
improving health equity.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Outcomes:
Analyze pathways of causality leading to health inequities; Differentiate
between disease causation and disparity causation; Compare and
contrast strategies to improve health equity in the US; Identify roles and
responsibilities of healthcare professionals as agents of change; Explain
the relationship between community, social justice and health status;
Describe philosophical principles that underlie social justice priorities;
Generate ideas for programs and policies that promote health equity

--- Page 684 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 715
HSM 240   Healthcare Workforce Management and Professionalism   (3
Credit Hours)   
Co-requisites:  HSM 110   
This course offers a comprehensive examination of human resources
management (HRM) in healthcare, emphasizing its strategic application.
It addresses the technical and legal facets of HRM while also fostering
the development of professionalism and equipping students to thrive in
the ever-evolving healthcare environment.
Outcomes:
Examine the impact of human resources management (HRM) and
organizational development principles on healthcare administration
practices; Describe how internal and external environments impact
the healthcare workforce environment; Identify the key elements of
professionalism in healthcare administration, including ethical standards,
communication, and teamwork; Analyze scenarios to assess the impact
of HRM decisions on healthcare organizations, including their ﬁnancial
and operational outcomes; Evaluate the impact of professionalism on
healthcare administration practices; Demonstrate engagement in HRM
activities, including negotiation and communication
HSM 280   Healthcare Ethics in Practice   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PHIL 130 or equivalent   
This course provides an in-depth exploration of ethical leadership
within healthcare management. Students will examine historical and
contemporary ethical issues that impact the management of healthcare
organizations, gaining a comprehensive understanding of the challenges
and responsibilities faced by healthcare leaders. The course emphasizes
the importance of personal moral perspectives, encouraging students to
compare their views with those of their peers and the dominant positions
of the day to foster a nuanced appreciation of diverse ethical opinions.
Outcomes:
Describe historical and contemporary ethical issues affecting
management of healthcare organizations; Analyze key characteristics
of healthcare administrators that contribute to ethical and effective
leadership; Apply critical thinking to decision-making models when
managing differing opinions and justifying ethical decisions; Reflect on
personal values to gain insight into one's vocation and career path in
the health sciences, integrating self-awareness with future professional
responsibilities
HSM 310   Healthcare Project Management   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  HSM 110; Course is restricted to Healthcare Administration
and Public Health majors   
This course introduces the fundamental principles of project
management in healthcare organizations, emphasizing the processes,
tools, and methodologies necessary for successful project execution.
Students will learn how to initiate, plan, execute, monitor, and close
projects in healthcare settings, with a focus on strategic alignment,
risk management, and stakeholder communication. The course also
emphasizes the development of teamwork, leadership, and managerial
skills required to effectively manage diverse teams and navigate
challenges in dynamic healthcare environments. Through practical
applications, students will gain hands-on experience in creating project
plans, managing resources, and ensuring successful project outcomes.
Outcomes:
Explain key project management principles, tools, methodologies, and
frameworks, with a focus on healthcare projects; Distinguish between the
roles and responsibilities of functional managers and project managers;
Develop comprehensive healthcare project plans that address scope,
goals, timelines, budgets, and stakeholder communication; Identify
potential risks for healthcare projects and risk mitigation strategies;
Apply leadership and collaboration skills to lead teams and ach ieve
project goals and objectivesHSM 315   Healthcare Quality & Performance Improvement   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  HSM 240 and HSM 368   
This course examines the role of management in measuring performance
and achieving quality in healthcare organizations. Emphasis is on the
historical evolution, current concepts and future trends associated
with measuring and evaluating health care quality. Students explore
fundamental concepts of quality improvement design, planning, and
methodology.
Outcomes:
1) Articulate the historical evolution and current forces driving changes
in healthcare quality; 2) Describe major quality improvement models that
provide a framework for change; 3) Differentiate the use of structural,
process and outcome indicators for measuring quality; 4) Apply
quantitative and qualitative performance measurement approaches to
healthcare processes; 5) Apply quality improvement tools and techniques
to healthcare processes; 6) Explain operational and clinical quality
improvement data; and 7) Apply a systematic quality improvement
approach to healthcare processes
HSM 320   Healthcare Program Planning and Evaluation   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (ISSCM 241 or PSYC 304) and HSM 358   
This course introduces students to the process of health program
planning, including development of program objectives, methods, needs
assessment, budget, timelines, contracting and marketing. Health
program evaluation will emphasize design of a program evaluation
including measurement and analysis of program outcomes, costs, and
impact on community health concerns. Psychometric, economic, political
and ethical issues related to health program planning and evaluation are
explored.
Outcomes:
1) Understand concepts and principles of program planning and
evaluation in healthcare; 2) Identify models for the planning and
evaluation of health programs; 3) Understand ethical, political, economic
and psychometric issues related to health program planning and
evaluation; 4) Identify data sources for planning and evaluation of
health programs; 5) Develop a plan for evaluation of a local healthcare
program; 6) Recognize the importance of needs assessment to program
planning; 7) Describe selected methods for evaluating need, process,
impact (outcome), and efﬁciency; 8) Identify the components of an
evaluation report; 9) Evaluate a local community's healthcare program;
and 10) Explain the role and responsibilities of the healthcare manager in
healthcare program planning and evaluation

--- Page 685 ---
716  Parkinson School of Health Sciences and Public Health
HSM 325   Healthcare Fiscal Management   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  HSM 110 and FINC 301   
This course introduces fundamental concepts related to ﬁnancial
management of healthcare organizations. Students explore ﬁnancial-
decision tools and the role of ﬁnancial decision-making in managing
delivery of care. How the U.S. health system impacts an organization's
ﬁnancial health and management is considered. Major concepts include
cost-accounting, budgeting, cost/beneﬁt analysis, and reimbursement
mechanisms.
Outcomes:
At the successful completion of the course, students will be able to: 1)
Describe the impact of political, social, and economic factors on the
cost of patient care delivery; 2) Analyze the impact of US healthcare
payment system on the organization and delivery of healthcare; 3)
Evaluate ﬁnancial health of a healthcare organization; 4) Apply principles
of accounting to organizational decision-making; 5) Explain revenue cycle
and budgeting in a healthcare organization; 6) Explain the legal, ethical,
and social justice issues surrounding ﬁscal management in the health
care setting; 7) Describe non-proﬁt's role in providing uncompensated
care and impact on ﬁnancial decision-making
HSM 330   Healthcare Legal & Regulatory Environment   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  HSM 240 and either HSM 280 or PHIL 284   
This course explores the foundations of healthcare law. Key topics
include informed consent, joint ventures, medical staff issues,
credentialing, liability, and bioethical concerns such as end-of-life
decision-making. Additionally, the course explores risk management
strategies, fraud and abuse regulations, and other critical healthcare
laws. Students will gain insight into the law-making process, the role of
regulatory bodies, and their impact on healthcare operations. Emphasis
is placed on understanding and applying these concepts to case studies
and real-world healthcare management scenarios.
Outcomes:
Examine the structure of the US legal system and its application to
healthcare regulations and judicial processes; Describe the principles
of liability as they pertain to healthcare organizations, medical staff,
and joint ventures; Identify key government regulations impacting
healthcare services, professionals, and organizational compliance;
Analyze bioethical issues in healthcare regulations, including end-of-
life decision-making, negligence, malpractice, informed consent, and
the use of human research subjects and their connection to healthcare
regulation; Discuss risk management practices and strategies to prevent
healthcare fraud, abuse, and regulatory violations
HSM 338   Healthcare Strategy and Marketing   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  HSM 110, HSM 230, and HSM 310   
This course offers an overview of healthcare strategy and marketing,
focused on strategic management and marketing fundamentals and
tools. Students work individually and in groups to apply strategies
speciﬁc to healthcare consumers, markets, products and services;
developing and presenting the marketing component of a healthcare
business plan at the end of the semester.
Outcomes:
Apply principles of strategic management in the context of a he althcare
organization; Utilize basis healthcare market research approaches,
techniques and tools; Identify ethical and legal issues related to strategy
and marketing in healthcare organizations; Develop a strategic marketing
campaign for a healthcare product, program or service; Demonstrate
effective teamwork skills in producing and presenting multimedia-based
strategy and marketing materials and plansHSM 340   Health Care Policy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  HSM 110 and HSM 230; HSM 230 may also be taken as a
corequisite   
This course explores government's role in organizing, ﬁnancing and
delivering healthcare. With an emphasis on policy formation, advocacy
and change, students apply policy analysis tools to contemporary public
health and healthcare problems. Using examples such as Medicare,
Medicaid or mental health policy, the course highlights the role of
leadership as a key component of successful policymaking.
Outcomes:
Explain how federal, state, and local health policy is formulated and
implemented; Assess the balance between public good and individual
rights in the policy process; Analyze the impact of speciﬁc healthcare
policy on health outcomes and the delivery of healthcare; Identify
future health policy directions that would improve the health status of
Americans; Describe the role of individual and organizational leadership
in influencing and improving policy outcomes
HSM 345   Healthcare Data Analytics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ACCT 201 and ISSCM 241/PSYC 304 This course explores
the use of clinical and operational data to improve outcomes and achieve
greater efﬁciencies in healthcare systems   
The role of data analytics in supporting informed decision-making
is emphasized. Topics include data manipulation, analysis, and
visualization. Practical business intelligence tools, such as M icrosoft
Excel® or Tableau®, are used.
Outcomes:
Discuss the role of data analytics in clinical and operational improvement
efforts; Apply analytic techniques to health and healthcare data using
business intelligence tools or applications; Identify meaningful patterns
and trends in data sets to inform business decisions; Understand and
interpret business needs and extract appropriate data necessary to solve
problems; Propose solutions to complex business problems that are
supported by data analysis & visualizations
HSM 350   Healthcare Administration Capstone   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  HSM 200, 310, 315, 330, 338, 345, 358, 368, 386 and
FINC 301   
The capstone course is designed to demonstrate accumulated
knowledge in healthcare administration. Skills and theories gained
throughout the curriculum are integrated into an original team project.
Students apply central concepts such as operations, strategy, quality,
ﬁnance and project management to a specialized area of healthcare in a
manner congruent with the Jesuit value of social justice.
Outcomes:
1) Apply healthcare administration knowledge, concepts and skills to an
identiﬁed healthcare delivery project; 2) Synthesize relevant knowledge
from pertinent data sources to meet complex project goals; 3) Synthesize
mentor feedback into a reorganized project plan; 4) Demonstrate
problem-solving skills in the context of a healthcare delivery project; 5)
Manage a large-scale project; and 6) Demonstrate effective teamwork in
working toward a common project goal
HSM 355   Special Topics   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Variable, used as needed,   
Variable hours and topics.

--- Page 686 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 717
HSM 358   Research Literacy for Health Decision-Makers   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ISSCM 241 or STAT 103   
This course explores the research process and the regulatory
requirements in health sciences research. It provides a foundation for
application of evidence-based practices in healthcare services. The
fundamentals of research design, methodology, interpretation, and
critical appraisal are introduced. The course requires critical thinking to
determine the relevance of novel research. Emphasis is given to practical
applications to decision-making in healthcare administration. Students
will present a critical analysis of multiple types of research studies.
Outcomes:
Outline research processes; Discuss the strengths and weaknesses of
speciﬁc levels of evidence; Describe ethical doctrine and regulations
impacting human participant protection; Assess study design, measures,
and data collection techniques; Critically evaluate health-related research,
including analysis and conclusions; Evaluate the relevance of novel
research
HSM 360   Healthcare Administration Field Internship   (6 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  HSM 200, 310, 315, 330, 338, 345, 358, 368, 386 and
FINC 301   
This professional experience provides exposure to and experience in
the healthcare environment. Under the supervision of a ﬁeld preceptor
and faculty advisor, students work with a healthcare organization
integrating content gained through prior HCA coursework. Students
develop and reﬁne skills and practical knowledge by conducting a
goal-based project(s) of value to the internship site. Project objectives
are developed in concert between student, faculty, and preceptor. The
experience involves three on-campus seminars, preparation of seminar
deliverables plus a minimum of 196 on-site hours fulﬁlled on a weekly
basis as mutually agreed between student and preceptor. The ﬁeld
experience as facilitated by Loyola University Chicago and the HCA
Program concludes at the close of the semester and may or may not be
compensated.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
1) Apply healthcare administration theoretical knowledge, concepts,
and skills to the practice setting; 2) Solve project challenges through
the use of analytical and reflective tools; 3) Function as a collaborative
team member; 4) Demonstrate critical thinking and reﬁne communication
skills; 5) Apply strategies of ethical reasoning to arrive at principled
decisions in the Jesuit tradition; 6) Integrate supervisory, and faculty
feedback to improve personal skills, knowledge, and effectiveness;
and 7) Demonstrate the ability to work independently, thoughtfully, and
resourcefully
HSM 365   Health Innovation and Entrepreneurship   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces basic concepts and methods of design thinking
and entrepreneurial training through lecture, discussion and experiential
activities. Students will form collaborative teams to develop innovative
healthcare products, processes or services especially relevant to
promoting health equity and reducing health disparities - by practicing
customer discovery, problem identiﬁcation, ideation, prototyping, testing
and pitching. Course is open to Juniors and Seniors at the Parkinson
School as well as students in the LUC Interdisciplinary Honors Program.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to deﬁne basic principles of design thinking and
entrepreneurial business model generation, and explain how they can
be applied in a variety of healthcare settings as tools for innovation
especially related to promoting health equity and reducing health
disparitiesHSM 368   Management of Healthcare Organizations   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  HSM 110   
This course familiarizes students with the profession of healthcare
administration by providing an overview to leadership, management,
organizational development and change. Reflecting the uniqueness of
the healthcare sector, students are introduced to key principles, practices
and theories that support the socially just and ethical management of
healthcare organizations.
Outcomes:
1) Differentiate between the roles of healthcare manager and healthcare
leader; 2) Describe how management principles are applied in healthcare
organizations; 3) Articulate organizational development challenges faced
by healthcare entities; 4) Formulate strategies to manage a change
intervention; and 5) Explain ethical and social justice responsibilities in
healthcare management
HSM 386   Health Information Systems Management   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  HSM 110 (Can also be taken as a corequisite)   
This course explores the management and leadership of health
information systems in the healthcare industry. Students will examine
the types, purposes, and attributes of clinical and administrat ive
systems used in healthcare organizations. Topics include the value of
health information systems in enhancing organizational performance,
the systems development lifecycle, and the role of management and
leadership in system implementation. Additional focus is placed on
addressing privacy, security, and ethical challenges, as well as evaluating
the impact of emerging trends on healthcare delivery.
Outcomes:
Describe the major types, purposes, and attributes of clinical and
administrative information systems used in health care organizations;
Explain the value of health information systems, including their role
in supporting organizational performance, strategy, and effective
management; Evaluate risks related to privacy, security, and ethical
considerations in the use and management of health information
systems; Explain how the systems development lifecycle supports the
effective management of health information systems; Evaluate the
potential impact of emerging trends in health information systems
HSM 399   Independent Study in Healthcare Administration   (1-4 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Permission of the Program Director   
This is a directed study course in public health for approved students,
supervised by a member of the faculty. Students must have an assigned
professor, written objectives, planned outcomes and timelines. Must be
enrolled in the undergraduate Healthcare Administration program.
Outcomes:
Upon successful completion of this course, the student will be able to
articulate a general understanding of the selected topic

--- Page 687 ---
718  Parkinson School of Health Sciences and Public Health
Public Health (PUBH)
PUBH 199   Service-Learning in Health Sciences Leadership   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This introductory course aims to teach students the fundamental
concepts, principles, and practices associated with interprofessional
health approaches. The course will emphasize the importance
of teamwork, communication, and respect among various health
professionals in delivering holistic care across the health continuum.
Outcomes:
Compare roles, responsibilities, values, ethics, communication, and
teamwork of various health professions; Discuss evidence-based impact
of interprofessional research, practice, and education; Communicate
effectively across professions; Participate in interprofessional teams and
case-based activities
PUBH 300   Introduction to Public Health   (3 Credit Hours)   
Public health is the science of preventing disease and protecting
and promoting the health of populations and communities. Through
interactive exercises and application of concepts, this course considers
its history; ethical principles; scientiﬁc foundation and tools; biomedical
bases; socioeconomic and behavioral factors; environmental issues; and
relationship to medical care.
Course equivalencies:  X -PUBH 300/ ENVS 300   
Outcomes:
Describe the history, core concepts, functions, and methods of public
health; Deﬁne health disparities and explain how they are produced;
Synthesize public health information and communicate it effectively
PUBH 301   Health and the Environment   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is designed as an introduction to the ﬁeld of environmental
health, including regulations, research, disease prevention, and advocacy.
Course equivalencies:  X-ENVS301/PUBH301/MBPH401   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to outline approaches for assessing and controlling
environmental hazards that affect community health and discuss major
local, national, and global health challenges
PUBH 303   Fundamentals of Epidemiology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Epidemiology is the study of the distribution and determinants of disease
in populations and remains the basic science of public health. The
objective of this course is to familiarize students with the range of tools
used to conduct epidemiologic analysis, including study design and
measures of association.
Course equivalencies:  X- PUBH 303/ENVS 303/MPBH 403   
Outcomes:
Apply epidemiological methods to public health problems; select
appropriate quantitative data collection, study designs, and analytical
methods; apply adjustment techniques; and calculate measures of
association; and interpret and communicate results
PUBH 304   Health Behavior and Health Promotion   (3 Credit Hours)   
This introductory course is designed to provide students with a
foundation in behavioral theory as applied to public health practice,
including health education and health promotion. Health education
strategies will be examined from the perspective of health literacy,
cultural competency, and adult learning behaviors among other
dynamics.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Describe a range of health behavior theories and frameworks commonly
incorporated into public health interventions on the individual, inter-
personal, and community levelPUBH 305   Public Health Communication   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will teach students effective use of health literacy and health
communication tools, including the use of mass media, online social
media, and health professions' communication with patients in clinical
settings.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to develop communication tools such as
infographics and brief web-based videos and evaluate public health
information
PUBH 306   Critical Thinking in Public Health   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is designed to prepare students to make reasoned, intelligent
decisions about public health matters by learning about and practicing
how to think, read, write, and speak critically.
Outcomes:
Be able to evaluate the credibility of sources of information, scrutinize
arguments, recognize biases in oneself and in others, and take a stand on
public health issues and support it
PUBH 307   Foundations of Public Health Policy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Provides students with theoretical frameworks to understand public
health policy issues, introduces public policy making processes, and
enables students to analyze position papers on policy topics. Drawing
from law, economics, political science, ethics and epidemiology, the
course provides students with the knowledge and skills to understand
policy-making processes.
Course equivalencies:  PUBH 307/MPBH 407   
Outcomes:
Explain how federal, state, and local health policy is formulated,
implemented and evaluated; Assess the balance between the public good
and individual rights in the policy process in public health
PUBH 309   Introduction to Biostatistical Methods for Public Health   (3
Credit Hours)   
This course offers an introductory overview of the fundamental and
foundational biostatistical concepts and methods that are critical in the
ﬁeld of public health. Emphasizing the application and interpretation of
biostatistical methods, it covers a broad spectrum of topics including
graphical and numerical descriptive statistics for data summarization
and exploration; probability theory with an emphasis on the binomial
(discrete) and normal (continuous) distributions, which are crucial
for understanding statistical inference; and inferential statistics,
encompassing point estimation, interval estimation, and hypothesis
testing to support evidence-based decision-making. The course also
introduces nonparametric statistical methods for analyzing data without
assuming a speciﬁc distribution.
Outcomes:
Explain the fundamental concepts of probability and statistics as they
apply to public health data\\n\\n; Analyze graphical and numerical
descriptive statistics to effectively summarize public health \\ndata;
Evaluate basic inferential statistical methods, including hypothesis
testing and conﬁdence intervals, to draw and justify conclusions from
public health data; Justify the appropriate statistical methods for speciﬁc
public health research scenarios based on the data type and research
question; Communicate statistical information effectively to various
audiences within the ﬁeld of public health

--- Page 688 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 719
PUBH 310   Public Health Internship   (3 Credit Hours)   
This practical internship course will integrate theory, where students will
unpack the complexities of Public Health and gain an understanding of
the roles and responsibilities of professionals. Careers in Public Health
are multidimensional, students will integrate real world experience
reflecting on experiences of leadership, health equity, community
engagement, and professional development.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Integrate academic internship experience with course curriculum
academic content through critical reflection of leadership theory and
development; assess leadership identity, leadership behavior, and civic
role in a public health framework
PUBH 313   Community Assessment and Program Planning   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course will teach the basics of community health assessment
and public health program planning, implementation, monitoring, and
evaluation. This will include learning data collection techniques, program
design, data analysis strategies, and how to present evaluation ﬁndings
to different audiences. Students will then apply the lessons learned
in class by developing a project plan for a hypothetical public health
program.
Outcomes:
Describe a community health assessment; Deﬁne conceptual frameworks
and logic models and their purpose in the context of public health
programs; Design data collection tools for community health assessment
and program evaluation purposes; Determine the best evaluation strategy
to use in various programmatic scenarios; Apply program planning,
implementation, monitoring, and evaluation methods to case study
assessment
PUBH 314   Global Public Health   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to global public health and focuses on
health disparities on the international level. The course addresses
the determinants, consequences and trends of infectious and non-
communicable disease, maternal and child health, and refugee and
migrant health in low-and-middle-income countries.
Course equivalencies:  X-HSM210/PUBH314/ENVS385   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to discuss major current global public health issues,
identify effective and ineffective aspects of international public health
programs, and create context-speciﬁc health promotion materialsPUBH 315   Public Health Advocacy   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is designed to equip students with a foundational
understanding of the essential role of advocacy in informing and
advancing public health policy, as well as skills necessary to engage in
that process. Students will examine public health advocacy campaigns,
the legislative process at the local, state, and federal level, the need for
evidence-based research in shaping public health policy, the importance
of critically evaluating policy proposals, and the incorporation of health
equity in the process. The course will cover assessment of the political
landscape, stakeholder engagement, and the development of strong
written, verbal, and multi-media communication skills. The class will
address current public health issues through lectures, class discussions,
and projects, including projects aimed at engaging legislators.
Outcomes:
Develop effective advocacy strategies tailored to public health issues;
Evaluate evidence-based research to support policy recommendations;
Engage diverse stakeholders to advance public health initiatives; Craft
persuasive advocacy messages for diverse audiences; Explain the
legislative and policy-making processes involved in implementing public
health changes
PUBH 390   Special Topics: Public Health Intelligence   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Students must have completed one statistics course
including STAT 103, PSYC 304, STAT 335, ISSCM 241 equivalent   
This course provides both a conceptual foundation and a hands-on
introduction for PH informatics - the science of collecting, organizing,
and using information to promote and protect the health of all people.
Students will work with real-life data sets, from food safety to crime
reports, while furthering their understanding of the intersection of public
health practice and informatics.
Outcomes:
After taking this course, students will have developed a conceptual
foundation for quickly assessing data sets and evaluating informatics
approaches to produce high-quality information resources for decision
makers
PUBH 391   Leadership and Public Health Entrepreneurship   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Public health entrepreneurship provides a pathway for action to solving
public health challenges. Students will learn how to identify public health
challenges, ideate, develop sustainable solutions rooted in evidence,
cultivate partnerships, lead with authenticity, communicate through the
art of storytelling, and champion community well-being.
Outcomes:
Deﬁne public health entrepreneurship and explore its role in addressing
health disparities with communities
PUBH 392   Special Topics In Public Health   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Restricted to students in the Bachelor of Public Health
(BSPH) program, or with permission of the instructor   
This course covers a speciﬁc topic in public health.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to articulate a general understanding of the selected
topic
PUBH 395   Independent Study in Public Health   (1-4 Credit Hours)   
This is a directed study course in public health for approved students,
supervised by a member of the faculty. Students must have an assigned
professor, written objectives, planned outcomes and timelines. Students
must have permission from the Public Health Program Director to enroll.
Outcomes:
Upon successful completion of this course, the student will be able to
articulate a general understanding of the selected topic

--- Page 689 ---
720  Exercise Science (BS)
PUBH 399   Public Health Capstone Experience   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a cumulative, integrative and scholarly or applied
experience or inquiry project. It may include internships, service-learning
projects, senior seminars, portfolio projects, or research paper. The
project provides the opportunity for students to demonstrate proﬁciency
in effective communication skills through a written report and oral
presentation.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Demonstrate in written report and oral presentation the knowledge and
skills acquired during the undergraduate program through selected
projects which translate gained information into public health practice,
including research
Exercise Science (BS)
Pursue a career in ﬁtness, exercise, and physical performance, working
with athletes, individuals, or people with health challenges.
Whether it is ﬁtness training at a gym or exercise physiology in a
health care setting, an exercise science graduate helps people improve
their health and wellness with physical activity. Through coursework
and hands-on experience, students in the Loyola Exercise Science
program will develop skills to evaluate health behaviors and risk factors,
conduct ﬁtness assessments, write exercise prescriptions, and motivate
individuals to practice positive health behaviors.
Exercise science majors at Loyola can enroll in the ﬁve-year combined
bachelor's/master's degree program and earn both degrees in only ﬁve
years.
Related Programs
Major
•Public Health (BS)  (p. 728)
Combined
•Exercise Science (BS/MS)  (p. 1192 )
•Healthcare Administration/Public Health (BS/MPH)  (p. 1234 )
Curriculum
Learn more about the Exercise Science laboratories  (https://
www.luc.edu/parkinson/academics/departments/appliedhealthsciences/
exercisescience/exercisesciencelaboratories/ ) that offer the latest health
and exercise science technology to students and faculty.
Code Title Hours
Exercise Science Prerequisites (Not including elective CORE classes)BIOL 101 
& BIOL 111General Biology I 
and General Biology I Lab4
BIOL 102 
& BIOL 112General Biology II 
and General Biology II Lab4CHEM 160 
& CHEM 161Chemical Structure and Properties 
and Chemical Structure and Properties Laboratory4
CHEM 180 
& CHEM 181Chemical Reactivity I 
and Chemical Reactivity I Lab4MATH 118Precalculus II3
STAT 103 Fundamentals of Statistics 3PSYC 101General Psychology3
PSYC 273 Developmental Psychology 3EXCM 155 
& 155LAnatomy and Physiology I 
and Anatomy and Physiology I Lab4
EXCM 156 
& 156LAnatomy and Physiology II 
and Anatomy and Physiology II Lab4PHYS 111 
& 111LCollege Physics I Lec / Dis 
and College Physics Laboratory I4
PHYS 112 
& 112LCollege Physics II Lec/Disc 
and College Physics Lab II4EXCM 101Introduction to Exercise Physiology3
EXCM 201 Physiology of Exercise 4Exercise Science Major CourseEXCM 210 Program Design in Exercise 2EXCM 301Advanced Physiology of Exercise3
EXCM 342 Physical Growth, Development and Nutrition 3EXCM 345Therapeutic Exercise and Rehabilitation3
EXCM 364 Intro to Clinical Exercise Testing and Prescription 3EXCM 368Advanced Clinical Testing and Prescriptions3
EXCM 375 Special Populations in Exercise Science 2EXCM 382Clinical Research: Methods, Design and Ethics w/
Lab3
EXCM 385 Kinesiology and Sports Biomechanics w/Lab 4EXCM 387Movement Anatomy in Exercise3
EXCM 390 Psychology of Health and Exercise 3EXCM 395Clinical Internship and Patient Management6Total Hours89
Suggested Sequence of Courses
EXCM students must complete this list of core areas:
•Artistic Knowledge  (1 course/3 credit hours)
•Historical Knowledge  (2 courses/6 credit hours)
•Literary Knowledge  (2 courses/6 credit hours)
•Societal & Cultural Knowledge  (1 course/3 credit hours)
•Theological Knowledge  (2 courses/6 credit hours)
•Philosophical Knowledge  (2 courses/6 credit hours)
•Ethics  (1 course/3 credit hours)
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
First Year
Fall
BIOL 101 
& BIOL 111General Biology I 
and General Biology I Lab4EXCM 155 
& 155LAnatomy and Physiology I 
and Anatomy and Physiology I Lab4
CORE 3CORE3UNIV 101First Year Seminar1 Hours15
Spring
UCWR 110 Writing Responsibly 3

--- Page 690 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 721BIOL 102 
& BIOL 112General Biology II 
and General Biology II Lab4
EXCM 156 
& 156LAnatomy and Physiology II 
and Anatomy and Physiology II Lab4CORE3CORE3 Hours17
Second Year
Fall
PSYC 101 General Psychology ( Fulﬁlls Tier II Societal
& Cultural CORE )3CHEM 160 
& CHEM 161Chemical Structure and Properties 
and Chemical Structure and Properties
Laboratory4
EXCM 101 Introduction to Exercise Physiology 3CORE3CORE3 Hours16
Spring
EXCM 201 Physiology of Exercise 4CHEM 180 
& CHEM 181Chemical Reactivity I 
and Chemical Reactivity I Lab4
CORE 3STAT 103Fundamentals of Statistics ( Fulﬁlls
Quantitative Knowledge CORE )3CORE3 Hours17
Third Year
Fall
PSYC 273 Developmental Psychology 3CORE3
CORE 3PHYS 111 
& 111LCollege Physics I Lec / Dis 
and College Physics Laboratory I4EXCM 364Intro to Clinical Exercise Testing and
Prescription 23 Hours16
Spring
EXCM 375 Special Populations in Exercise Science 22EXCM 301Advanced Physiology of Exercise 23
PHYS 112 
& 112LCollege Physics II Lec/Disc 
and College Physics Lab II4EXCM 368Advanced Clinical Testing and
Prescriptions 23CORE3 Hours15
Fourth Year
Fall
EXCM 382 Clinical Research: Methods, Design and
Ethics w/Lab 23EXCM 210Program Design in Exercise 22
EXCM 385 Kinesiology and Sports Biomechanics w/
Lab 24EXCM 342Physical Growth, Development and
Nutrition 23EXCM 345Therapeutic Exercise and Rehabilitation 23 Hours15
Spring
EXCM 395 Clinical Internship and Patient
Management 26EXCM 387Movement Anatomy in Exercise 23EXCM 390Psychology of Health and Exercise 23 Hours12 Total Hours123
1Prerequisite: MATH 117 Precalculus I  or equivalent. Co-requisite:
CHEM 161 Chemical Structure and Properties Laboratory  and
MATH 118 Precalculus II .
2Prerequisite: EXCM 156 Anatomy and Physiology II /EXCM 156
Anatomy and Physiology II
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Demonstrate proﬁciency in exercise and ﬁtness screening, health
appraisal and risk stratiﬁcation, ﬁtness assessment and evaluation,
and exercise techniques.
•Communicate effectively and collaboratively with clients and the
interprofessional team in exercise and ﬁtness settings.
•Integrate values, ethics, and client preferences into exercise science
practice
•Participate in activities to promote lifelong learning and professional
development in exercise science.
•Demonstrate proﬁciency in critical thinking and evidence-based
decision making in Exercise science.
•Synthesize knowledge from the arts, sciences and exercise sciences
as the basis for assessment of physical capabilities and exercise
prescriptions.
Healthcare Administration (BS)
Be a leader in the business of health care.
Are you interested in health care with a role in operations and
business? With a healthcare administration degree, you can work in the
management and organization of healthcare delivery systems and health
services.
Loyola's Bachelor of Science in Healthcare Administration (BSHCA)
teaches the latest health industry knowledge, such as healthcare ﬁnance,
quality management, and health information systems, with a solid
grounding in ethics and liberal arts. Graduates are prepared for careers
in the growing ﬁeld of healthcare management, and are employed in

--- Page 691 ---
722  Healthcare Administration (BS)
hospitals systems, post-acute care agencies, insurance companies,
 healthcare consulting ﬁrms, and more.
Related Programs
Minor
•Healthcare Administration Minor  (p. 723)
Combined
•Healthcare Administration (BS/MHA)  (p. 1227 )
•Healthcare Administration/Public Health (BS/MPH)  (p. 1234 )
Curriculum
The BS in Healthcare Administration differs from a traditional business
degree in that it focuses on understanding how the health care delivery
system functions and how to best manage those functions. Students
must complete 121 total credit hours to graduate. The BS in Healthcare
Administration major has 78 credit hours of required courses.
The Healthcare Administration program is guided by the External
Advisory Board  (https://www.luc.edu/parkinson/academics/
departments/healthcareadministration/bshealthcareadministration/
externaladvisoryboard/ ) (EAB) and is fully certiﬁed by the Association of
University Programs in Health Administration  (https://www.aupha.org/
certiﬁcation/certiﬁcation/ ) (AUPHA).
The following list includes all required major Healthcare Administration
courses. Healthcare Administration majors will take these courses,
as well as University Core,  electives, business courses in the Quinlan
School of Business, ﬁeld internship, and a culminating capstone course.
Students also have room in their program of study to add a minor,
in complementary areas such as global and international studies,
marketing, or bioethics. Please see the Suggested Sequence of Courses
(p. 722) for all courses required for a B.S. in Healthcare Administration.
Code Title Hours
HSM 110 Healthcare in America 3HSM 120Essentials of Medical Terminology for Health
Professionals1
HSM 200 Careers in Healthcare Administration 2HSM 220Continuum of Healthcare Services3
HSM 230 Fundamentals of Health Equity 3HSM 240Healthcare Workforce Environment3
HSM 280 Healthcare Management Ethics 3HSM 310Healthcare Project Management3
HSM 315 Healthcare Quality & Performance Improvement 3HSM 325Healthcare Fiscal Management3
HSM 330 Healthcare Legal & Regulatory Environment 3HSM 338Healthcare Strategy and Marketing3
HSM 340 Health Care Policy 3HSM 345Healthcare Data Analytics3
HSM 350 Healthcare Administration Capstone 3HSM 358Health Services Research3
HSM 360 Healthcare Administration Field Internship 6HSM 368Management of Healthcare Organizations3
HSM 386 Health Information Systems Management 3PSYC 101General Psychology3
ACCT 201 Introductory Accounting I 3ECON 201Principles of Microeconomics3
FINC 301 Introductory Business Finance 3INFS 247Business Information Systems3
ISSCM 241 Business Statistics 3Select one of the following:3
HRER 301 Principles of HR ManagementENTR 201Introduction to EntrepreneurshipSCMG 232 Introduction to Supply Chain ManagementECON 329Health EconomicsTotal Hours78
Internship
During their senior year, students complete a ﬁeld-based internship under
the supervision of a preceptor. As a result of extensive relationships
between the Parkinson School and Chicago area healthcare executives
and organizations, students have the opportunity to complete their
internship in key segments of the health care industry. The internship
consists of a goal-based project of value to the organization, plus
opportunities that include shadowing and networking.
Transfer Credit
Courses taken outside of Loyola may be transferred for appropriate credit
upon approval of the program advisor and provided a minimum grade
of C is earned for the course. External students wishing to tra nsfer into
Loyola and the HCA program must provide ofﬁcial transcripts indicating
a minimum 2.5 grade point average (GPA) on a four-point scale. Internal
students wishing to transfer to a major in Healthcare Administration
must have a minimum cumulative 2.5 GPA.
Healthcare Administration University Core Curriculum
2024-2025
HCA students must complete this list of core areas:
Historical Knowledge  (2 courses/6 credit hours) 
Literary Knowledge  (2 courses/6 credit hours) 
Theological Knowledge  (2 courses/6 credit hours) 
Artistic Knowledge  (1 course/3 credit hours) 
Philosophical Knowledge  (1 course/ PHIL 130 Philosophy & Persons ) 
Scientiﬁc Knowledge  (2 course/6 credit hours) 
Ethics  (1 course/3 credit hours)
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework. An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study. Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
First Year
FallPSYC 101General Psychology ( Fulﬁlls Tier 2 Societal
& Cultural Knowledge )3 Hours3
Spring
INFS 247 Business Information Systems 3ISSCM 241 
or PSYC 304Business Statistics 
or Statistics3

--- Page 692 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 723ECON 201Principles of Microeconomics3 Hours9
Second Year
Fall
HSM 110 Healthcare in America 3ACCT 201Introductory Accounting I3
HSM 200 Careers in Healthcare Administration 2HSM 120Essentials of Medical Terminology for
Health Professionals1 Hours9
SpringHSM 230Fundamentals of Health Equity3
HSM 310 Healthcare Project Management 3Select one of the following:3
HSM 280 Healthcare Ethics in Practice ( Fulﬁlls Tier II
Philosophical Knowledge ) 3 PHIL 284Health Care Ethics ( Fulﬁlls Tier II
Philosophical Knowledge ) 3  Hours9
Third Year
FallHSM 368Management of Healthcare Organizations3
HSM 345 Healthcare Data Analytics 3HSM 386Health Information Systems Management3FINC 301Introductory Business Finance 43 Hours12
Spring
HSM 220 Post-Acute & Long-Term Care Management 3HSM 240Healthcare Workforce Management and
Professionalism3
HSM 358 Research Literacy for Health Decision-
Makers3HSM 338Healthcare Strategy and Marketing3 Hours12
Fourth Year
FallHSM 315Healthcare Quality & Performance
Improvement3
HSM 330 Healthcare Legal & Regulatory Environment
33HSM 340Health Care Policy3Business Elective  53 Hours12
Spring
HSM 325 Healthcare Fiscal Management 63HSM 350Healthcare Administration Capstone3HSM 360Healthcare Administration Field Internship6 Hours12 Total Hours78
1Students assigned to UCWR 110 Writing Responsibly  for spring should
take a CORE in the fall
2Students assigned to UCWR 110 Writing Responsibly  for fall should
take a CORE in the spring3PHIL 284 Health Care Ethics  or HSM 280 Healthcare Ethics in
Practice  is a pre-requisite to HSM 330 Healthcare Legal & Regulatory
Environment .
4Statistics ( ISSCM 241 Business Statistics or PSYC 304 Statistics ),
ECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics  and ACCT 201 Introductory
Accounting I  are prerequisites to FINC 301 Introductory Business
Finance .
5Business Selectives: ECON 329 Health Economics , ENTR 201
Essentials of Entrepreneurship , HRER 301  , or SCMG 232 Introduction
to Supply Chain Management .
6FINC 301 Introductory Business Finance  is a prerequisite to HSM 325
Healthcare Fiscal Management .
7Students are strongly encouraged to use program electives toward the
following course HSM 210 Introduction to Global Healthcare Delivery .
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Apply ﬁscal and economic principles in the management of health
care settings and services
•Apply organizational and management theories and principles in a
variety of health care settings
•Apply principles of information management, data analysis, and
quality improvement in the organization, delivery, and management of
health care settings and services
Healthcare Administration Minor
The Healthcare Administration minor prepares students to work in
healthcare settings and to understand the business side of public
health and health care. The minor is built upon a foundation of Jesuit-
based liberal arts, business, and public policy courses. Students adding
the Healthcare Administration minor to their course of study choose
from a range of classes related to the health system: healthcare ﬁscal
management, health information technology, health policy, health equity,
healthcare data analytics and more.
Related Programs
Major
•Healthcare Administration (BS)  (p. 721)
Combined
•Healthcare Administration (BS/MHA)  (p. 1227 )
•Healthcare Administration/Public Health (BS/MPH)  (p. 1234 )
Curriculum
One course (three credit hours) are required and ﬁve courses (15 credit
hours) are to be selected from the elective course list. You must complete
the required course before enrolling in Group 1 or Group 2 electives.

--- Page 693 ---
724  Nutrition Minor
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesHSM 110Healthcare in America3
Select two courses from Group 1 (six credit hours). 6HSM 200Careers in Healthcare AdministrationHSM 210 Introduction to Global Healthcare DeliveryHSM 220Continuum of Healthcare ServicesHSM 230 Fundamentals of Health EquityHSM 240Healthcare Workforce EnvironmentHSM 280 Healthcare Management EthicsSelect three courses from Group 2 (9 credit hours).9
HSM 310 Healthcare Project ManagementHSM 315Healthcare Quality & Performance ImprovementHSM 325 Healthcare Fiscal ManagementHSM 330Healthcare Legal & Regulatory EnvironmentHSM 338 Healthcare Strategy and MarketingHSM 340Health Care PolicyHSM 345 Healthcare Data AnalyticsHSM 358Health Services ResearchHSM 365 Health Innovation and EntrepreneurshipHSM 368Management of Healthcare OrganizationsHSM 386 Health Information Systems ManagementECON 329Health EconomicsTotal Hours18
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Learning Outcomes
•Basic healthcare literacy
•Introduction to a wide array of healthcare trends and issues
•Insights into the operations of the multi-faceted healthcare industry
Nutrition Minor
Nutrition and food are integral to life.  Relevant dimensions
in contemporary society include those related to health, the
environment, the economy and culture. Strategies to optimize
nutrition include not only individual choice but also policy, systems
and environmental initiatives with an interprofessional approach.
Several undergraduate majors may be enhanced by foundational
nutritional knowledge to foster this interprofessional approach, such as
public health, exercise science, pre-health, education (early childhood,
elementary, special education), environmental sciences, health systems
management, business and marketing.
Related Programs
Major
•Exercise Science (BS)  (p. 720)
•Public Health (BS)  (p. 728)Combined
•Public Health (BS/MPH)  (p. 1332 )
Curriculum
The minor requires 15 credit hours for completion.
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesFONU 215Fundamentals of Nutrition3
FONU 320 Nutrition Through the Life Cycle 3FONU 110Culinary Explorations3
Elective Courses  (p.  )Students select two of the following6
EXCM 342 Physical Growth, Development and NutritionFONU 225Food as CultureHSM 230 Fundamentals of Health EquityPUBH 304Health Behavior and Health PromotionTotal Hours15
Learning Outcomes
•Describe role, rich sources, and needs of essential nutrients
•Summarize food-based strategies to meet nutrition needs to support
health
•Compare key nutrient needs through the life cycle
•Demonstrate competence in basic food preparation
•Incorporate food-based recommendations into meal plans
•Propose solutions to nutrition and food-related inequities
Public Health (BA)
The Public Health BA degree prioritizes the integration of a broader array
of social and behavioral sciences alongside ﬁeld-speciﬁc coursework
that also incorporates content such as biology, epidemiology, and public
health biostatistics. Our BAPH offers an interdisciplinary approach and is
designed for non-pre-health professional students.
Related Programs
Major
•Public Health (BS)  (p. 728)
Combined
•Public Health (BS/MPH)  (p. 1332 )
Curriculum
The BA in Public Health (BAPH) program draws on courses in ethics,
environmental sciences, biology, mathematics, healthcare administration,
social sciences, and the humanities alongside epidemiology, biostatistics,
health behavior and promotion, health communication, policy, and global
health.
The BAPH degree has 72 credits, of which 12 credit hours are taken
directly from the University Core, leaving 60 unique credit hours, which
are spread across 51 credit hours of required courses and 9 credits
of concentration elective credits. Students will take an additional 33

--- Page 694 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 725
credits of University Core courses plus UNIV 101 (1 credit) and 14 general
elective credits to achieve 120 credit hours.
Students in the BAPH program will select one of ﬁve elective
concentrations of 9 credit hours each, which are springboards to
numerous minors. These concentrations include: Gender, Sexuality &
Health; Global Health; Health Equity & Social Justice; Policy & Advocacy
and Program Management.
Code Title Hours
ANTH 280 /
BIOL 280Evolution of Human Disease 3
or ANTH 353 Epidemics and Pandemics
or ANTH 359 Paleopathology
or ANTH 258 Medical Anthropology & Global HealthBIOL 110Liberal Arts Biology3or ANTH 103Biological Background Human Social Behavioror ANTH 105Human Biocultural Diversity
HSM 110 Healthcare in America 13HSM 230Fundamentals of Health Equity3
PHIL 284 Health Care Ethics 3
or PHIL 286 Ethics and Education
or PHIL 287 Environmental Ethics
or HSM 280 Healthcare Ethics in PracticePSYC 101General Psychology3
PUBH 300 Introduction to Public Health 3PUBH 301Health and the Environment3
PUBH 303 Fundamentals of Epidemiology 3PUBH 304Health Behavior and Health Promotion 13
PUBH 305 Public Health Communication 3PUBH 306Critical Thinking in Public Health 23
PUBH 307 Foundations of Public Health Policy 23PUBH 309Introduction to Biostatistical Methods for Public
Health3
PUBH 313 Community Assessment and Program Planning 3PUBH 314Global Public Health3or HSM 210Introduction to Global Healthcare Delivery
PUBH 315 Public Health Advocacy 3PUBH 391Leadership and Public Health Entrepreneurship3or MGMT 201Managing People and Organizations
PUBH 399 Public Health Capstone Experience 13
or PUBH 310 Public Health InternshipSTAT 103Fundamentals of Statistics3or PLSC 216Political Numbersor PSYC 304Statisticsor SOCL 301Statistics for Social Research
SOCL 122 Race and Ethnic Relations 3Elective Concentration Courses  (p. 725)9Total Hours72
1This course satisﬁes the engaged learning requirement
2This course satisﬁes the writing intensive requirement
3HSM 210  and PUBH 310  are also Engaged Learning Designated
coursesElective Concentrations
Policy and Advocacy Concentration (9 credits)
Code Title Hours
Choose one course from the following 3COMM 230Argumentation & AdvocacyCOMM 306 Environmental AdvocacyPLSC 328Political BehaviorPUBH 391 Leadership and Public Health EntrepreneurshipWSGS 370Sexual Assault AdvocacyChoose one of the following 3CPST 335Law and Regulations for Organizational LeadersECON 329 Health EconomicsHIST 373US Law & Public PolicyPLSC 329 Interest Group PoliticsPLSC 334Urban Policies and ProblemsPLSC 370 Fieldwork in Political Science-InternshipPLSC 391Chicago PoliticsPLSC 392 Environmental PoliticsURB 201Social Welfare Policy & Services ISelect one of the following 3COMM 200Digital Communication and SocietyCOMM 210 Principles of Public RelationsCOMM 211Principles of AdvertisingCOMM 213 Digital FoundationsCOMM 234Interviewing for CommunicationCOMM 277 Organizational CommunicationCOMM 363Research Methods in Advertising/Public RelationsDSCI 101 Fundamentals of Modern Data Science with RENVS 380Introduction to Geographic Information SystemsMARK 201 Principles of MarketingMGMT 201Managing People and OrganizationsPLSC 236 Political CommunicationPUBH 310Public Health Internship 1PUBH 390 Special Topics: Public Health IntelligenceSOCL 258Confronting Homelessness: Local to GlobalTotal Hours9
1Students may take the PUBH 310  course if not already taken to meet
the program requirement
Program Management Concentration (9 credits)
Code Title Hours
Choose one course from the following list 3MGMT 201Managing People and Organizations 1MGMT 320 Leading and Managing TeamsMGMT 360Values-Based LeadershipPUBH 391 Leadership and Public Health EntrepreneurshipChoose two courses from the following6
ACCT 201 Introductory Accounting ICPST 320Program EvaluationCPST 335 Law and Regulations for Organizational LeadersECON 201Principles of MicroeconomicsECON 329 Health Economics

--- Page 695 ---
726  Public Health (BA)ENVS 363Sustainable Business ManagementENVS 380 Introduction to Geographic Information SystemsFINC 301Introductory Business FinanceHSM 220 Post-Acute & Long-Term Care ManagementHSM 240Healthcare Workforce Management and
ProfessionalismHSM 310 Healthcare Project ManagementHSM 325Healthcare Fiscal ManagementHSM 330 Healthcare Legal & Regulatory EnvironmentHSM 345Healthcare Data AnalyticsHSM 365 Health Innovation and EntrepreneurshipHSM 368Management of Healthcare OrganizationsIBUS 315 International ManagementMARK 201Principles of MarketingMGMT 318 Organizational Development and ChangeMGMT 331Managing Nonproﬁt OrganizationsMGMT 335 Micro-Enterprise ConsultingPSYC 280Psychology of Judgment and Decision-MakingPSYC 373 Health PsychologyPUBH 310Public Health Internship 1PUBH 390 Special Topics: Public Health IntelligenceSTAT 303SAS Programming & Applied StatisticsTotal Hours9
1Students may take MGMT 201  if they haven't taken it for the program
requirements. Student may take PUBH 310  if they haven't taken it for
program requirements.
Gender, Sexuality and Health (9 credits)
Code Title Hours
Choose three courses from the following 9ANTH 106Sex, Science and Anthropological InquiryANTH 203 Violence, Social Suffering, and JusticeANTH 245Gender in Deep TimeANTH 307 The Body and CultureCJC 373Intimate Partner ViolenceENVS 204 Gender, Health & EnvironmentHIST 290AHistory of Sexuality in the United StatesMARK 312 Gender and MarketingPSYC 235Psychology of Human SexualityPSYC 238 Gender & Sex Differences & SimilaritiesPUBH 310Public Health Internship 1SOCL 171 Sociology of Sex and GenderSOCL 210Gender and WorkSOCL 236 Population StudiesWSGS 360Migration, Identity, SexualityWSGS 370 Sexual Assault AdvocacyWSGS 380Queer Theory: Beyond the BinaryTotal Hours9
1Students may take the PUBH 310  course if not already taken to meet
the program requirementHealth Equity and Social Justice (9 credits)
Code Title Hours
Choose one course from the following 3ANTH 105Human Biocultural DiversityANTH 203 Violence, Social Suffering, and JusticeANTH 216Cultures of MigrationCJC 376 Childhood Exposure to ViolenceHIST 362America in the Age of Slavery and CapitalismHIST 385 Chicago in AmericaPLSC 316Politics of GenocidePLSC 334 Urban Policies and ProblemsSOCL 250Inequality in SocietyChoose one from the following 3CJC 345Social Justice and CrimeENVS 284 Environmental JusticePLSC 215Politics of Marginalized GroupsPSYC 239 Understanding Bias and InclusivityPSYC 360Understanding PrejudiceSOCL 125 Chicago: Urban MetropolisSOCL 225Sociology of Health CareSOCL 228 Sociology of the African-American ExperienceSOCL 261Social Movements & Social ChangeTHEO 203 Social Justice and InjusticeChoose one course from the following3
COMM 210 Principles of Public RelationsCOMM 213Digital FoundationsCOMM 318 Public Relations WritingCPST 320Program EvaluationENVS 260 Environmental JournalismENVS 380Introduction to Geographic Information SystemsHRER 301 Principles of HR ManagementHSM 365Health Innovation and EntrepreneurshipMGMT 331 Managing Nonproﬁt OrganizationsPUBH 310Public Health Internship 1PUBH 391 Leadership and Public Health Entrepreneurship 1WSGS 370Sexual Assault AdvocacyTotal Hours9
1Students may take the PUBH 310  course if not already taken to meet
the program requirement. Students may take PUBH 391  if they did not
take it as a program required course.
Global Health Concentration (9 credits)
Code Title Hours
Choose one course from the following list 3ANTH 207Economies, Culture, and DevelopmentECON 325 Economics of Growth & DevelopmentGLST 305Globalization and Environmental SustainabilityPLSC 102 International Relations in an Age of GlobalizationPLSC 213International Human RightsPLSC 325 American Foreign PolicyPLSC 330Global JusticePLSC 333 Crossing Borders: The Politics of Immigration

--- Page 696 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 727PLSC 354Global Environmental PoliticsSOCL 252 Global InequalitiesSOCL 265Globalization & SocietySOCL 306 International DevelopmentChoose two courses from the following list6
ANTH 203 Violence, Social Suffering, and JusticeANTH 213Culture in AfricaANTH 258 Medical Anthropology & Global Health 1ANTH 317Ethnographic MethodsCOMM 272 Intercultural CommunicationENVS 380Introduction to Geographic Information SystemsENVS 385 Introduction to Global HealthIBUS 315International ManagementPLSC 317 Politics of International HealthPLSC 356Intervent in World PoliticsPUBH 310 Public Health Internship 1PUBH 391Leadership and Public Health Entrepreneurship 1SOCL 236 Population StudiesSOCL 278Global HealthTotal Hours9
1Students may take ANTH 258  if they did not take it as a program
requirement. Students may take PUBH 391  if they didn't take it as a
program requirement. Students may take PUBH 310  if they did not take
it as a requirement.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion
of requirements depends on course offerings in a given term and the
courses they individually select as well as the start term for a major or
graduate study.  Students should consult their advisor for assistance with
course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
HSM 110 Healthcare in America 3PSYC 101General Psychology3 Hours6
SpringBIOL 110 
or ANTH 103 
or ANTH 105Liberal Arts Biology 
or Biological Background Human Social
Behavior 
or Human Biocultural Diversity3STAT 103 
or PLSC 216 
or PSYC 304 
or SOCL 301Fundamentals of Statistics 
or Political Numbers 
or Statistics 
or Statistics for Social Research3 Hours6
Year 2
Fall
HSM 230 Fundamentals of Health Equity 3PUBH 300Introduction to Public Health3 Hours6
SpringPHIL 284 
or PHIL 286 
or PHIL 287 
or HSM 280Health Care Ethics 
or Ethics and Education 
or Environmental Ethics 
or Healthcare Ethics in Practice3PUBH 305Public Health Communication3 Hours6
Year 3
Fall
PUBH 304 Health Behavior and Health Promotion 3PUBH 306Critical Thinking in Public Health3
SOCL 122 Race and Ethnic Relations 3PUBH 301Health and the Environment3Elective Concentration Course #13 Hours15
Spring
PUBH 309 Introduction to Biostatistical Methods for
Public Health3PUBH 313Community Assessment and Program
Planning3
PUBH 391 
or MGMT 201Leadership and Public Health
Entrepreneurship 
or Managing People and Organizations3Elective Concentration Course #23 Hours12
Year 4
FallPUBH 303Fundamentals of Epidemiology3
PUBH 307 Foundations of Public Health Policy 3PUBH 314 
or HSM 210Global Public Health 
or Introduction to Global Healthcare
Delivery3Elective Concentration Course #33 Hours12
Spring
ANTH 353 
or ANTH 359 
or ANTH 258 
or ANTH 280Epidemics and Pandemics 
or Paleopathology 
or Medical Anthropology & Global
Health 
or Evolution of Human Disease3PUBH 315Public Health Advocacy3PUBH 310 
or PUBH 399Public Health Internship 
or Public Health Capstone Experience3 Hours9 Total Hours72
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.

--- Page 697 ---
728  Public Health (BS)
Learning Outcomes
•Demonstrate a thorough understanding of public health frameworks,
core principles, and scientiﬁc foundations, including the ﬁelds of
epidemiology, biostatistics, environmental health, and health behavior,
to effectively apply this knowledge in addressing health challenges.
•Analyze the impact of social, economic, behavioral, and
environmental factors on public health, particularly among
marginalized communities, and identify root causes of health
disparities to promote health equity.
•Apply techniques to conduct and assess public health interventions
that address community needs and promote social justice.
•Communicate effectively to convey public health information clearly
to diverse audiences, influence policy, and engage in community-
based initiatives for promoting health equity and social justice.
Public Health (BS)
Creating healthy people and communities
Grounded in the basic sciences with an emphasis on population health,
the B.S. in Public Health (BSPH) degree prepares students for positions
in ﬁelds such as health education, epidemiology, and environmental
health, across nonproﬁt, industry, and government sectors. Pre-health
students who seek a medical or health professions degree can broaden
their experience with a multidisciplinary public health major.
Accreditation
Loyola University Chicago Public Health Programs are accredited by
the Council on Education for Public Health  (CEPH). In March 2021,
CEPH Board of Councilors acted to renew our BSPH and MPH programs'
accreditation for a seven-year period. For questions on accreditation,
please email Dr. Ruth Kafensztok  (rkafens@luc.edu ).
Related Programs
Major
•Public Health (BA)  (p. 724)
Combined
•Public Health (BS/MPH)  (p. 1332 )
Curriculum
The BSPH program draws on courses in ethics, environmental sciences,
biology, mathematics, healthcare administration, social sciences, and the
humanities alongside epidemiology, biostatistics, health behavior and
promotion, health communication, policy, and global health.
The program requires 71 credit hours towards the minimum 120 credits
needed for graduation. In addition to the 71 major credits, students
complete 34 credits in the University Core, and may use the remaining
15 general elective credits towards pursing minors or other courses of
interest. Several Knowledge Areas within the  University Core  are waived
for BSPH students as they are already included in the major (Quantitative,
Scientiﬁc Literacy, etc.).
Code Title Hours
BIOL 101 General Biology I 3BIOL 102General Biology II3
BIOL 111 General Biology I Lab 1BIOL 112General Biology II Lab1
MATH 131 Applied Calculus I 3MATH 132Applied Calculus II3
STAT 335 Introduction to Biostatistics (Prerequisities:
BIOL 102 and MATH 132)3STAT 303SAS Programming & Applied Statistics
(Prerequisite: STAT 335)3
PSYC 101 General Psychology 3ANTH 280Evolution of Human Disease3or ANTH 258Medical Anthropology & Global Healthor ANTH 353Epidemics and Pandemicsor ANTH 359Paleopathology
PHIL 284 /
PHIL 287Health Care Ethics 3ENVS 380Introduction to Geographic Information Systems 13
HSM 110 Healthcare in America 23HSM 230Fundamentals of Health Equity3
HSM 310 Healthcare Project Management 3PUBH 300Introduction to Public Health3
PUBH 301 Health and the Environment 3PUBH 303Fundamentals of Epidemiology 13
PUBH 304 Health Behavior and Health Promotion 23PUBH 306Critical Thinking in Public Health 33
PUBH 307 Foundations of Public Health Policy 1, 33PUBH 314 /
HSM 210Global Public Health 1, 23
PUBH 399 Public Health Capstone Experience 23Public Health Elective Courses (PUBH 310, Public Health Internship;
PUBH 390, Public Health Intelligence; or choose from elective course
listing available from the BSPH advisor.)6Total Hours71
1If interested in the BSPH/MPH ﬁve-year, accelerated bachelors/
master's program, see Keith Kramer, kkramer4@luc.edu, Senior
Program Advisor for the B.S. in Public Health Program, ﬁrst before
taking PUBH 303, 307, 314/HSM 210 or ENVS 380.
2This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.
3This course satisﬁes the Writing Intensive requirement.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
BS in Public Health Sample Academic Plan
Parkinson School of Health Sciences and Public Health
BSPH majors must complete this list of University Core areas:  
Artistic Knowledge  (1 course/3 credit hours) 
Ethics  (1 course/3 credit hours) 
Historical Knowledge  (2 courses/6 credit hours) 
Literary Knowledge  (2 courses/6 credit hours) 
Philosophical Knowledge - Foundational  (1 course/3 credit hours) 
Societal Knowledge - Foundational  (1 course/3 credit hours) 
Theological Knowledge  (2 courses/6 credit hours) 
Writing Seminar  (1 course/3 credit hours)
120 Total Credit Hours (71 BSPH, 34 Core/ UNIV 101 First Year Seminar , 15
General Electives)
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of

--- Page 698 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 729
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
First Year
Fall
BIOL 101 
& BIOL 111General Biology I 
and General Biology I Lab4MATH 131Applied Calculus I3
UCLR 100 Interpreting Literature ( C/E/M ) 13UCWR 110Writing Responsibly 13UNIV 101First Year Seminar1 Hours14
Spring
Select one of the following: 3ANTH 100Globalization and Local Cultures ( CORE ) 1 
Substitute  BIOL 102 
& BIOL 112General Biology II 
and General Biology II Lab4
HIST CORE (Tier 1) Historical Knowledge  13MATH 132Applied Calculus II3
Select one of the following: 3PHIL 181Ethics ( CORE ) 1 Substitute  Hours16
Second Year
Fall
THEO CORE (Tier 1) Theological Knowledge  13HSM 110Healthcare in America3
PSYC 101 General Psychology 3PUBH 300Introduction to Public Health ( may take
when offered in fall or spring terms )3PUBH 301Health and the Environment ( fall or spring
term when offered )3 Hours15
Spring
Select one of the following: 3ANTH 280Evolution of Human Disease 
ANTH 353 Epidemics and Pandemics  ANTH 359Paleopathology 
ART CORE Artistic Knowledge  13HIST CORE (Tier 2)Historical Knowledge  13
PHIL 130 Philosophy & Persons ( CORE ) 13General Elective3 Hours15
Third Year
FallGeneral Elective3
PUBH 304 Health Behavior and Health Promotion 3PUBH 306Critical Thinking in Public Health3
STAT 335 Introduction to Biostatistics 3Select one THEO CORE (Tier 2) course of the following:  13THEO 203  THEO 204 Substitute  Hours15
Spring
General Elective 3HSM 230Fundamentals of Health Equity3
PHIL 284 
or PHIL 287Health Care Ethics 
or Environmental Ethics3LIT CORE (Tier 2)Literary Knowledge  13
Select one Public Health Elective of the following:  23PUBH 310Public Health Internship 
Public Health Internships  Other options for BSPH electives  Hours15
Fourth Year
FallGeneral Elective3
PUBH 303 Fundamentals of Epidemiology 33PUBH 307Foundations of Public Health Policy 33
PUBH 314 / HSM 210 Global Public Health 33STAT 303SAS Programming & Applied Statistics3 Hours15
SpringENVS 380Introduction to Geographic Information
Systems 33
General Elective 3HSM 310Healthcare Project Management3
PUBH 399 Public Health Capstone Experience 3Select one Public Health Elective of the following:  23
PUBH 310 Public Health Internship  Public Health Internships Other options for BSPH electives  Hours15 Total Hours120
1University Core  (p. 1405 )
2Public Health electives will represent a cross-section of
interdisciplinary academic options from which students may choose (6
credits needed)
3If interested in the BSPH/MPH ﬁve-year, dual-degree program, contact
Keith Kramer, kkramer4@luc.edu  ﬁrst before taking PUBH 303
Fundamentals of Epidemiology , PUBH 307 Foundations of Public
Health Policy , PUBH 314 Global Public Health /HSM 210 Introduction
to Global Healthcare Delivery , or ENVS 380 Introduction to Geographic
Information Systems . Each course above is three credits except where
noted.
BS in Public Health with Pre-Med Requirements
Parkinson School of Health Sciences and Public Health
BSPH majors must complete this list of University Core areas:  
Artistic Knowledge  (1 course/3 credit hours) 
Ethics  (1 course/3 credit hours) 
Historical Knowledge  (2 courses/6 credit hours) 
Literary Knowledge  (2 courses/6 credit hours) 

--- Page 699 ---
730  Public Health (BS)
Philosophical Knowledge - Foundational  (1 course/3 credit hours) 
Societal Knowledge - Foundational  (1 course/3 credit hours) 
Theological Knowledge  (2 courses/6 credit hours) 
Writing Seminar  (1 course/3 credit hours)
132 Total Credit Hours
Course Title Hours
First Year
Fall
BIOL 101 
& BIOL 111General Biology I 
and General Biology I Lab4CHEM 160 
& CHEM 161Chemical Structure and Properties 
and Chemical Structure and Properties
Laboratory4
MATH 131 Applied Calculus I 3UCLR 100Interpreting Literature ( C/E/M ) 13
UCWR 110 Writing Responsibly 13UNIV 101First Year Seminar1 Hours18
SpringBIOL 102 
& BIOL 112General Biology II 
and General Biology II Lab4
CHEM 180 
& CHEM 181Chemical Reactivity I 
and Chemical Reactivity I Lab4Select one of the following:3
PHIL 181 Ethics ( CORE ) 1 Core Ethics Substitute  1 
MATH 132 Applied Calculus II 3Select one of the following:3
SOCL 101 Society in a Global Age  Societal Knowledge Substitute  1  Hours17
Second Year
FallBIOL 251Cell Biology3
CHEM 240 
& CHEM 241Chemical Reactivity II 
and Chemical Reactivity II Laboratory4HIST CORE (Tier 1)Historical Knowledge  13
PUBH 300 Introduction to Public Health ( may take
when offered in fall or spring terms )3PUBH 301Health and the Environment ( fall or spring
term when offered )3 Hours16
SpringBIOL 282Genetics3
THEO CORE Theological Knowledge  13CHEM 260 
& CHEM 261Quantitative Methods in Chemistry 
and Quantitative Methods in Chemistry
Laboratory4
HSM 110 Healthcare in America 3PSYC 101General Psychology3 Hours16Third Year
FallBIOL 366 /
CHEM 361Cell Physiology & Biochemistry3
PHYS 111 
& 111LCollege Physics I Lec / Dis 
and College Physics Laboratory I4PUBH 304Health Behavior and Health Promotion3
PUBH 306 Critical Thinking in Public Health 3STAT 335Introduction to Biostatistics3 Hours16
SpringSelect one of the following:3
ANTH 280 Evolution of Human Disease  ANTH 353Epidemics and Pandemics 
ANTH 359 Paleopathology  HSM 230Fundamentals of Health Equity3
PHIL 130 Philosophy & Persons 13PHYS 112 
& 112LCollege Physics II Lec/Disc 
and College Physics Lab II4STAT 303SAS Programming & Applied Statistics3 Hours16
Fourth Year
Fall
HIST CORE (Tier 2) Historical Knowledge  13LIT CORE (Tier 2)Literary Knowledge  13
PHIL 284 
or PHIL 287Health Care Ethics 
or Environmental Ethics3PUBH 303Fundamentals of Epidemiology 23
PUBH 307 Foundations of Public Health Policy 23PUBH 314 / HSM 210Global Public Health 23 Hours18
SpringART COREArtistic Knowledge  13
ENVS 380 Introduction to Geographic Information
Systems 23HSM 310Healthcare Project Management3
PUBH 399 Public Health Capstone Experience 3Select one of the following:  23
THEO CORE (Tier 2)  1 THEO 203Social Justice and Injustice 
THEO 204 Religious Ethics and the Ecological Crisis  Substitute  Hours15 Total Hours132
1University Core  (p. 1405 )
2If interested in the BSPH/MPH ﬁve-year, dual-degree program, contact
Keith Kramer, kkramer4@luc.edu  ﬁrst before taking PUBH 303
Fundamentals of Epidemiology , PUBH 307 Foundations of Public
Health Policy , PUBH 314 Global Public Health /HSM 210 Introduction
to Global Healthcare Delivery , or ENVS 380 Introduction to Geographic
Information Systems . Each course above is three credits except where

--- Page 700 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 731
noted. PUBH 310 Public Health Internship , Public Health Internship, is a
great elective option.
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Discuss the history, characteristics, roles, functions, structures, and
core concepts of public health and the U.S. health system
•Debate the socioeconomic, behavioral, biological, and environmental
factors that influence human health and disease and perpetuate
health disparities
•Describe the legal, regulatory, ethical, and economic dimensions
shaping public health policy and practice
•Locate, use, evaluate, and synthesize public health information
•Use basic statistics and perform statistical analysis in SAS, a
widely-used statistical software program, to identify and describe
populations’ health concerns
•Communicate public health information, in both oral and written
forms, through a variety of media and to diverse audiences
•Identify the basic tools for project management as well as population
health assessment, planning, and evaluation
•Advocate for health equity, especially on behalf of vulnerable and
marginalized populations
•Take a stand on a controversial public health issue and support it
with evidence
•Craft evidence-based solutions that take account of the community
dynamics and cultural contexts in which public health practitioners
work
•Engage in sound ethical practice while exhibiting a high degree of
professionalism
Pre-Professional Programs
•Pre-Law Advising  (p. 731)
•Pre-Medicine Advising  (p. 731)
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
University Policies
Please see University Policies for academic policies that supersede those
of academic units within the University
Pre-Law Advising
About Us
Loyola Career Services provides support and guidance to students
who are exploring a legal career and applying to law school. Studentscan schedule an appointment through Handshake  to meet with their
dedicated career advisor. More information and resources  (https://
app.joinhandshake.com/edu/article_categories/1071/ ) about Career
Service’s offerings for pre-law students can be found here:  Pre-Law
Advising: Loyola University Chicago (luc.edu)
Pre-Medicine Advising
About Us
Loyola Career Services provides support and guidance to students
exploring, considering, and applying to programs in the healthcare
ﬁeld including medical school, dental school, and other allied
health professions. Students can  schedule an appointment through
Handshake  to meet with their dedicated career advisor.  More information
about Career Service’s offerings for  pre-medical and  pre-health students,
including a list of  typical course r equirements  and recommendations , can
be found on the  Health, Medicine, and Natural Sciences website  (https://
www.luc.edu/prehealth/index.shtml/ ).
Commonly Required Courses
These are typical requirements and recommendations for applying to
medical schools. If you are interested in applying to programs in one of
the other health profession areas (dental, pharmacy, PA, PT , OT , optometry,
podiatry, etc.) please review the resources included below.
The health professional schools themselves provide the most accurate
and up-to-date source of information. Students should begin researching
speciﬁc requirements of health professional schools they are interested
in early in their academic careers and continue this research through their
academic careers as health professional schools typically update their
required and recommended courses on an annual basis.
Students should also review Loyola department websites and LOCUS to
determine relevant pre-requisites for courses listed below and what terms
these courses are typically offered.
These professional association websites are additional resources that
will likely be of value:
•AAMC Medical School Pre-Requisites  (https://students-
residents.aamc.org/medical-school-admission-requirements/
admission-requirements/ ) (Allopathic Medicine/MD)
•ADEA-Dental School Pre-Requisites  (https://www.adea.org/
GoDental/Application_Prep/Preparing_for_Dental_School/
Prerequisites.aspx ) (Dentistry)
•AACOMAS Pre-Requisites  (https://www.aacom.org/become-a-doctor/
apply-to-medical-school/admissions-requirements/ ) (Osteopathic
Medicine/DO)
•AAPA Pre-Requisites  (https://www.aapa.org/career-central/become-
a-pa/ ) (Physician’s Assistant)
•AACP Pre-Requisites  (https://www.aacp.org/resource/pharmacy-
school-admission-requirements/ ) (Pharmacy)
•ASCO Information  (https://optometriceducation.org/ ) (Optometry)
•AACPM Information  (https://aacpm.org/ ) (Podiatry)
•AAVMC Information  (https://www.aavmc.org/ ) (Veterinary)AreaSubjectLoyola Equivalent
Biology General Biology I BIOL 101 & BIOL 111General Biology IIBIOL 102 & BIOL 112
Biochemistry BIOL 366 or CHEM 361

--- Page 701 ---
732  Quinlan School of BusinessCell BiologyBIOL 251
Genetics BIOL 282Chemistry
(Previous
Track)Inorganic Chemistry ICHEM 101 & CHEM 111 or
CHEM 105
Inorganic Chemistry
IICHEM 102 & CHEM 112 or
CHEM 106Organic Chemistry ICHEM 223 & CHEM 225 or
CHEM 221
Organic Chemistry II CHEM 224 & CHEM 226 or
CHEM 222BiochemistryCHEM 361 or CHEM 370 or
BIOL 366
Chemistry
(New Track)*Chemical Structure &
PropertiesCHEM 160 & CHEM 161Chemical Reactivity ICHEM 180 & CHEM 181
Chemical Reactivity
IICHEM 240 & CHEM 241**Quantitative
MethodsCHEM 260 & CHEM 261**
Biochemistry CHEM 361 or CHEM 370 or
BIOL 366PhysicsPhysics IPHYS 111 & PHYS 111L or
PHYS 125 & PHYS 125L
Physics II PHYS 112 & PHYS 112L or
PHYS 126 & PHYS 126LMathCollege AlgebraMATH 117
Pre-Calculus MATH 118StatisticsSTAT 103 or STAT 203 or PSYC 304
or STAT 335
English
CompositionFreshman
CompositionUCWR 110Upper Level
Composition CourseOne Writing Intensive Course
Psychology Psychology PSYC 101Social
ScienceSociologySOCL 101
*The “New Track” for the Chemistry sequence denotes the new
course structure beginning in Fall 2023 that will reorganize the
presentation of topics but still reflect the AAMC standards of Chemistry
courses. Students who have completed the “Previous Track” have
still completed the necessary chemistry requirements for health
professional schools.
**The 240/241 and 260/261 levels of courses in the New Track of
Chemistry are interchangeable and can be taken in either order once
the 160/161 and 180/181 sequences are complete.
Occasionally required courses include (but are not limited to):  
Molecular Genetics, Molecular Biology, Calculus, Additional Behavioral
SciencesQuinlan School of Business
Mission & Vision
Mission
We are an academic and scholarly community in a Jesuit Catholic
University, inspiring intellectual curiosity, a concern for others and the
common good. We prepare leaders to contribute to society through
ethical, sustainable, and socially responsible conduct and to act
effectively in complex organizational settings in a diverse global
economy.
Vision
We are difference makers. We are a leading Jesuit institution of
transformative learning that empowers students to discern their life’s
purpose while preparing them to make an impact in the world through
data-driven decision making, critical thinking and innovation. We develop
ethical, responsible and forward-thinking leaders who value diversity,
equity and inclusion to drive sustainable business growth and inspire
positive change in organizations, communities and in society. As scholars
and life-long learners, we foster a rigorous, experiential learning culture
in the heart of Chicago and around the world to pursue knowledge in the
service of others.
Undergraduate Programs
•Accounting (BBA)  (p. 758)
•Accounting and Analytics (BBA)  (p. 760)
•Accounting Information Systems Minor  (p. 763)
•Business Administration Minor  (p. 764)
•Business of Applied Artiﬁcial Intelligence Minor  (p. 764)
•Economics (BBA)  (p. 765)
•Economics Minor  (p. 767)
•Entrepreneurship (BBA)  (p. 768)
•Entrepreneurship Minor  (p. 770)
•Finance (BBA)  (p. 771)
•Finance Minor  (p. 773)
•Human Resource and Employment Relations Minor  (p. 774)
•Human Resource Management (BBA)  (p. 775)
•Information Systems and Analytics (BBA)  (p. 777)
•Information Systems Minor  (p. 779)
•International Business (BBA)  (p. 780)
•International Business Minor  (p. 782)
•Management (BBA)  (p. 783)
•Management Minor  (p. 785)
•Marketing (BBA)  (p. 786)
•Marketing Minor  (p. 788)
•Nonproﬁt Management Minor  (p. 789)
•Sport Management (BBA)  (p. 790)
•Sport Management Minor  (p. 792)
•Supply Chain Management (BBA)  (p. 793)
•Supply Chain Management Minor  (p. 795)
•Sustainability Management Minor  (p. 796)
•U.S./Europe Double Degree (BBA)  (p. 797)

--- Page 702 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 733
ACCELERATED BACHELOR'S/MASTER'S
PROGRAMS
•Accounting (BBA/MSA)  (p. 959)
•Advertising & Public Relations/Marketing (BA/MSM)  (p. 978)
•Biology/Business (BS/MBA)  (p. 1015 )
•Business Administration (BBA/MBA)  (p. 1033 )
•Business/Accountancy (BBA/MSA)  (p. 1035 )
•Business/Business Analytics (BBA/MS)  (p. 1039 )
•Business/Finance (BBA/MSF)  (p. 1042 )
•Business/Human Resources (BBA/MSHR)  (p. 1044 )
•Business/Marketing (BBA/MSM)  (p. 1047 )
•Business/Supply Chain Management (BBA/MSSCM)  (p. 1050 )
•Business of Applied Artiﬁcial Intelligence Minor  (p. 764)
•Environmental Science/Business (BS/MBA)  (p. 1127 )
•Environmental Studies/Business (BA/MBA)  (p. 1166 )
•Healthcare Administration/Business (BS/MBA)  (p. 1231 )
Quinlan School of Business Academic
Policies
Learn more about the Quinlan School of Business policies regarding
program details, transfer credits and more.
About the Quinlan School of Business
The Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) program integrates
a foundation of education through the University Core Curriculum
(p. 1405 ) that includes a total of 16 courses (48 credit hours of
coursework), primarily in the arts and sciences, which develop important
college-level skills and integrate an understanding of values through 10
required areas of knowledge as well as one course that satisﬁes Loyola's
commitment to Engaged Learning. In addition, each student completes
required courses in business that serve to develop individual intellect and
character. Our goal is to prepare skilled business professionals who will
develop into socially responsible, ethical leaders.
The Quinlan School of Business is fully accredited by AACSB
International, the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business.
In addition, the accounting programs are separately accredited by AACSB
International.
Contact Us
Water Tower Campus  (https://www.luc.edu/undergrad/about/
ourcampuses/watertowercampus/ ) 
Schreiber Center 
16 E. Pearson St. 
Chicago, IL 60611 
Phone: 312.915.6113 
Fax: 312.915.7207
Website: LUC.edu/quinlan  (https://www.luc.edu/quinlan/ )
Email:  QuinlanUBUS@luc.edu
Ofﬁce of the Dean 
Dean:  Michael Behnam, PhD 
Senior Associate Dean, Undergraduate Programs and Academic Affairs:
Tim Classen, PhD 
Senior Assistant Dean, Undergraduate Operations:  Nicole Gesualdo, PhD Assistant Dean, Undergraduate Programs:  Matt Rombach
Academic Advising
First-year and second-year students are advised through the
ofﬁce of First and Second Year Advising  (https://www.luc.edu/
fsya/?utm_medium=redirect&utm_campaign=undergrad-
redirects&utm_soure=ﬁrstandsecondyearadvising/ ).
Academic advising for juniors, seniors, and transfer students is handled
in the undergraduate programs ofﬁce of the Quinlan School of Business.
The initiation of timely class withdrawals, changes in courses, and ﬁling
of degree applications are all matters speciﬁcally requiring the dean's
approval.
The undergraduate ofﬁce is the primary point of contact for all matters
that relate to degree requirements in the Quinlan School of Business.
Students with any questions or concerns regarding academics, such as
courses, scheduling, majors or minors, etc., should consult with their
academic advisor.
School Requirements
Writing and Writing-Intensive Courses
In order to graduate from the Quinlan School of Business, students
ordinarily must complete three writing courses. These include: UCWR 110
Writing Responsibly , or the equivalent; and two writing-intensive courses.
UCWR 110 Writing Responsibly  must be taken in the freshman year
and must be completed with a grade of "C-" or better before any writing-
intensive course may be taken.
Designated sections of courses are taught with a special emphasis
on writing (e.g. WI courses may not be contracted or be independent
study courses). They are easily identiﬁed by a "W" in the section number.
Students in these courses will have a variety of writing assignments
that will be integrated closely with the learning objectives of the course.
The purpose of the program is to assure that students continue to give
attention to writing as an essential component of education throughout
their years at Loyola.
In order to ensure that training in writing is spread throughout the
undergraduate years, the program speciﬁes that no more than one
writing-intensive course per semester may be applied to this requirement.
Students may register for only one writing intensive course per semester.
Each student must complete at least one of their writing intens ive
courses with a Quinlan School of Business course or ENGL 210 Business
Writing . The other writing intensive course may come from any discipline.
Freshmen and transfer students with 59 or fewer transfer credit hours
must take two writing-intensive courses during their undergraduate
career at Loyola; transfer students with 60–89 transfer credit hours
must take one writing-intensive course during their undergraduate career
at Loyola; transfer students with 90 or more transfer credit hours are
exempt from taking writing-intensive courses. For further information,
transfer students should consult their academic advisor.
Math Requirements
Students are encouraged to satisfactorily complete the mathematics
requirement of their program during their ﬁrst year or as early in their
time at Quinlan as possible. All students must have math credit on their
transcript through MATH 110 Business Precalculus  (via coursework
with a grade of C- or better, transfer credit, or a placement exam), and
students who are majoring in Economics, Finance, or the U.S./Europe

--- Page 703 ---
734  Quinlan School of Business
double degree program must have math credit on their transcript through
MATH 130 Business Calculus .
University Core Curriculum
For speciﬁc information, please refer to the University Core section in
University Requirements  (p. 1405 ). Speciﬁc suggestions on how to fulﬁll
the Core through the Quinlan School of Business are detailed below.Core AreasSchool
Recommended
Courses
College Writing Seminar (3 credit hours) UCWR 110 (Required
as a prerequisite
for writing-intensive
courses)Artistic Knowledge and Inquiry (3 credit hours)Historical Knowledge and Inquiry (6 credit hours)Literary Knowledge and Inquiry (6 credit hours)Quantitative Knowledge and Inquiry (3 credit
hours)ISSCM 241 and
STAT 103Scientiﬁc Knowledge and Inquiry (6 credit hours)Societal and Cultural Knowledge and Inquiry (6
credit hours)ECON 201 and
ECON 202 (6 credit
hours)Philosophical Knowledge and Inquiry (6 credit
hours)ETHC 341 (3 credit
hours)
Theological and Religious Knowledge and Inquiry
(6 credit hours)Ethical Knowledge and Inquiry (3 credit hours)Engaged Learning RequirementSchool
Recommended
Courses
Engaged Learning (1 course) QUIN 351 (may
only be taken
concurrently with an
approved internship
experience)
Required Quinlan Business Courses
Each Quinlan School of Business student must complete the following
required business administration courses plus the required courses
for one area of concentration. A student may choose to complete the
courses for additional areas of concentration or for a minor.
Code Title Hours
ACCT 201 Introductory Accounting I 3ACCT 202Introductory Accounting II3
ECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics 3ECON 202Principles of Macroeconomics3
Select one of the following: 3FINC 301Introductory Business FinanceFINC 334 Principles of Corporate Finance (required for
Finance majors and minors)INFS 247Business Information Systems3
INFS 343 Business Analytics 3ISSCM 241Business Statistics3
LREB 315 Law and the Regulatory Environment of Business I 3MARK 201Principles of Marketing3
MGMT 201 Managing People and Organizations 3MGMT 304Strategic Management3
SCMG 232 Introduction to Supply Chain Management 3
Note:  Area of concentration and major are used interchangeably in the
Quinlan School of Business.
Code Title Hours
Other School of Business RequirementsCOMM 103Business & Professional Speaking 13
MATH 110 Business Precalculus 3MATH 130Business Calculus 24
ETHC 341 Ethics in Business 3
or MGMT 321 International Business EthicsQUIN 202Career Preparation2
Global AwarenessSelect one of the following:  33
Any business course from the International Business major group,
or:ANTH 100Globalization and Local CulturesANTH 102 Culture, Society, and DiversityENTR 313Entrepreneurship - Global Opportunity ScanGLST 101 Introduction to Global StudiesPLSC 102International Relations in an Age of GlobalizationElective Courses  (p.  )Free electivesAny courses from the undergraduate curriculum
for which all prerequisites and/or restrictions have
been met. Elective credit may be needed to reach
120 credit hours required for graduation.1Accounting majors with prior credit for  COMM 101  Public Speaking &
Critical Thinking  must take  ENGL 210  Business Writing  to complete this
requirement.
Accounting and Analytics majors with prior credit for  COMM 101  Public
Speaking & Critical Thinking  who wish to take the CPA exam should
take  ENGL 210  Business Writing  for Business Communication credit.
2Students majoring in Economics, Finance, and the U.S./Europe double
degree must MATH 110 Business Precalculus  as well as MATH 130
Business Calculus .
3A study abroad experience will also satisfy this requirement.
Students planning to study abroad are encouraged to meet with a Quinlan
academic advisor early in the planning stage in order to select a program
that offers appropriate courses toward University Core, Business Core,
majors and/or minors. A student will be permitted to take up to two
courses abroad toward a Quinlan major or minor (this includes students
pursuing the BA in Economics). All study abroad courses (except those
taken for general elective credit) must be reviewed through the Study
Abroad Ofﬁce course approval process.
Majors and Program Details
All Quinlan School of Business undergraduate students complete a
broad-based core of foundation courses, followed by advanced study in
at least one area of concentration, leading to the Bachelor in Business
Administration (BBA) degree in the following:

--- Page 704 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 735
•Accounting (BBA)  (p. 758)
•Accounting and Analytics (BBA)  (p. 760)
•Economics (BBA)  (p. 765)
•Entrepreneurship (BBA)  (p. 768)
•Finance (BBA)  (p. 771)
•Human Resource Management (BBA)  (p. 775)
•Information Systems and Analytics (BBA)  (p. 777)
•International Business (BBA)  (p. 780)
•Management (BBA)  (p. 783)
•Marketing (BBA)  (p. 786)
•Sport Management (BBA)  (p. 790)
•Supply Chain Management (BBA)  (p. 793)
•U.S./Europe Double Degree (BBA)  (p. 797)
Minors
The Quinlan School of Business offers a variety of minors for both
business students and non-business students. Choosing a minor o ffers
students a chance to gain working knowledge in an area in addition
to their major ﬁeld of concentration. All students may declare their
minor. A maximum of one transfer course taken prior to matriculating
at Loyola University Chicago may be allowed for non-Quinlan school
students at the discretion of the Assistant Dean of the Quinlan School
of Business. For non-Quinlan students double minoring in any two (or
more) concentrations, only two applicable courses may be applied to
both concentrations.  For Quinlan School of Business students double
minoring in any two (or more) concentrations, only one applicable course
may be applied to both concentrations.
•Accounting Information Systems Minor  (p. 763)
•Business Administration Minor  (p. 764)
•Business of Applied Artiﬁcial Intelligence Minor  (p. 764)
•Economics Minor  (p. 767)
•Entrepreneurship Minor  (p. 770)
•Finance Minor  (p. 773)
•Human Resource and Employment Relations Minor  (p. 774)
•Information Systems Minor  (p. 779)
•International Business Minor  (p. 782)
•Management Minor  (p. 785)
•Marketing Minor  (p. 788)
•Nonproﬁt Management Minor  (p. 789)
•Sport Management Minor  (p. 792)
•Supply Chain Management Minor  (p. 795)
•Sustainability Management Minor  (p. 796)
Grade Requirements
All Business Core, business school requirements, Writing Intensive
courses, major and minor courses, and UCWR 110 must be successfully
completed with a grade of C- or better. In addition, the overall GPA and
any major or minor GPA must be greater than or equal to 2.0. All grades
from courses attempted in a major or minor are calculated into the major
or minor GPA. University Core classes (with the exception of UCWR 110)
may be completed with a grade of D or better.
Students are expected to adhere to all course prerequisites for any
course as listed in the online schedule of classes each term. Speciﬁc
information can be found in LOCUS.Curriculum for Transfer Students
Students seeking admission to Loyola University’s Quinlan School of
Business as a transfer student may have their transcripts from prior
institutions reviewed by the Undergraduate Dean’s ofﬁce. Business
coursework taken elsewhere that was taken more than eight years prior
to enrolling at Loyola University’s Quinlan School of Business will not
be considered for transfer credit.  Coursework taken within the previous
eight years will be considered for transfer credit.
All transfer students must complete a minimum of 50% of all business
courses at Loyola University Chicago. Additionally, 80% of a major or
minor must be completed at Loyola University Chicago. This typically
translates into the possibility of one course permitted for a major or
minor at the discretion of the Quinlan School of Business. Please consult
with the Assistant Dean of the Quinlan School of Business with any
questions.
Transfer students should note that accepting courses for credit from
other institutions is done at the discretion of the Quinlan School of
Business. Curricular changes do occur within the Quinlan School of
Business. However, transfer credit is articulated at the time of a student's
matriculation to Loyola University Chicago with what curricular policies
were in place at that time. The Quinlan School of Business reserves the
right to not re-articulate transfer credit once a student has matriculated.
Taking Courses Elsewhere
The Quinlan School of Business adheres to the university policy on
permission to take coursework at other universities  (p. 2283 ). In
conjunction with the university policy, the Quinlan School of Business will
not approve any courses from the Quinlan School of Business curriculum
to be taken elsewhere during any semester or summer session.
Readmission to the Quinlan School of Business
A student who leaves Loyola University Chicago’s Quinlan School of
Business without completing their degree requirements may reapply for
admission through the Ofﬁce of Undergraduate Admission for a period
of 8 years from the date of separation.  If the application for readmission
is for a term that is within the 8 year period, the student will be able to
have their transcript reviewed by the Assistant Dean.  Those courses
previously taken at Loyola University Chicago and at other accredited
institutions, which received passing grades based on the grading policies
in place at the time of readmission, may be counted toward current
degree requirements.
A student who leaves Loyola University Chicago’s Quinlan School of
Business without completing their degree requirements and is separated
from the university for greater than 8 years will need to reapply for
admission and will not be able to count past business coursewor k toward
current degree requirements.
Honors and Awards
Dean's List
Each Fall and Spring Semester, the Quinlan School of Business
acknowledges those full-time (12 or more hours) students who obtain at
least a 3.5 grade point average for the term. Students on the dean's list
receive personal acknowledgement from the dean.
Dean's Key
Ordinarily given to the business administration senior or seniors
who, in the estimation of the dean, have made the most outstanding
contributions in both leadership and scholarship to the reputation of the
school. It is awarded to whomever may be expected in the years after

--- Page 705 ---
736  Quinlan School of Business
graduation to exemplify, both as citizens and as successful business
professionals, the highest ideals of the university.
Departmental Keys
Each academic major in the Quinlan School of Business ordinarily
awards one silver honor key annually to the graduating senior who
has demonstrated outstanding academic ability in that major ﬁeld of
concentration. Those considered for this award usually will have earned
the highest academic average for all coursework in their particular ﬁeld
of concentration. Other factors such as, but not limited to, leadership
achievement, cumulative grade point average, and graduation honors
may, at the full discretion of the faculty, be recognized in the selection
process.
Community Engagement Award
This award celebrates an individual who has demonstrated exceptional
dedication to making a positive impact on the community by addressing
relevant social issues and promoting positive change.
Commitment to Student Organizations Award
This award recognizes a student who had demonstrated exceptional
dedication to student life through active involvement and leadership in
various student organizations. It celebrates the recipient's commitment
to fostering a sense of community, collaboration, and personal
development within the Quinlan School of Business.
Leadership Awards
Certiﬁcates of merit may be awarded to those full time Quinlan School
of Business students who have distinguished themselves by active and
meritorious participation in various extracurricular activities within the
university.
Alpha Kappa Psi Scholarship Key
A key which is merited by the senior student in the fraternity who has
demonstrated outstanding academic excellence in all undergraduate
courses taken at Loyola. Ordinarily this means the highest cumulative
grade point average achieved for all courses attempted at Loyola.
Delta Sigma Pi Scholarship Key
A key which is merited by the senior student in the Quinlan School of
Business who has demonstrated outstanding academic excellence in all
courses taken at Loyola. Ordinarily, this means the highest cumulative
grade point average achieved in all courses attempted at Loyola.
Departmental Honors
The Quinlan School of Business offers departmental honors in the
following departments with the requirements for each as listed.
Departmental honors are available to students with majors in the Quinlan
School of Business. Students must apply to a department for honors
consideration. Contact the chairperson of the speciﬁc department for
more information.
Honor Societies and Fraternities
The university honorary societies and professional fraternities for which
business administration students may qualify are:
•Alpha Kappa Psi : A national professional fraternity founded with the
purpose of stimulating and developing scientiﬁc research in the ﬁeld
of commerce and business administration.
•Beta Alpha Psi : A national honorary accounting fraternity with
membership limited to juniors and seniors in the full- and part-time
business administration programs. Students must be majoring
in accounting, ﬁnance or information systems, and display high
scholastic and personal character requirements.•Beta Gamma Sigma : A national scholastic honor society for business
administration students. Membership in the Loyola chapter is
available to qualiﬁed junior and senior Quinlan School of Business
students.
•Delta Sigma Pi : A national professional business fraternity, organized
to promote closer afﬁliation of Quinlan students to the business
community.
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
University Policies
Please see University Policies for academic policies that supersede those
of academic units within the University
Accounting (ACCT)
ACCT 201   Introductory Accounting I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Minimum 15 earned hours   
The major emphasis is on the development and reporting of accounting
information for use by investors, creditors, and others. The student
is required to develop skills in the preparation and use of accounting
information and must demonstrate an understanding of the accounting
process, and be able to evaluate the impact of estimates, alternative
accounting principles, and the limitations of the accounting model on
accounting information. Topics include: preparation and use of ﬁnancial
statements; the accounting process; and the measurement and reporting
of income, assets, liabilities, and owner's equity.
Course equivalencies:  ACCT201/201H/CPST310/ACACT201   
Outcomes:
The student will be able to understand the underlying principles, design,
concepts, limitations, and the necessity of accounting systems; The
student will gain an appreciation of the uses of ﬁnancial data and
ﬁnancial statements and their impact on business decisions
ACCT 201H   Introductory Accounting I - Honors   (3 Credit Hours)   
Restricted to SBA honors students. The major emphasis is on the
development and reporting of accounting information for use by
investors, creditors, and others. The student is required to develop
skills in the preparation and use of accounting information and must
demonstrate an understanding of the accounting process, and be able
to evaluate the impact of estimates, alternative accounting principles,
and the limitations of the accounting model on accounting information.
Topics include: preparation and use of ﬁnancial statements; the
accounting process; and the measurement and reporting of income,
assets, liabilities, and owners' equity.
Course equivalencies:  ACCT201/201H/CPST310/ACACT201   
Outcomes:
The student will be able to understand the underlying principles, design,
concepts, limitations, and the necessity of accounting systems; The
student will gain an appreciation of the uses of ﬁnancial data and
ﬁnancial statements and their impact on business decisions

--- Page 706 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 737
ACCT 202   Introductory Accounting II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  A minimum grade of "C-" in ACCT 201   
This course highlights the differences between ﬁnancial accounting and
managerial accounting. The course begins by completing the study of
transactions and events affecting ﬁnancial statements. The cash flow
statement is then explored in some detail. Finally, ﬁnancial statement
analysis as traditionally practiced, is considered a capstone for ﬁnancial
accounting. The course then focuses on the use of accounting da ta by
management. Product costing in a manufacturing setting, assigning of
costs to objects, learning how costs behave, and the use of accounting
data by management in planning operations, controlling operations, and
in short term decision making are all investigated.
Course equivalencies:  ACCT202/ACCT202H/ACACT201   
Outcomes:
The student will be able to understand the differences between cash and
accrual accounting, the use of ratio analysis in investing and managing
decisions, the value and importance of identifying and allocating costs,
and the methods involved in the budgeting process
ACCT 202H   Introductory Accounting II - Honors   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  C- or better grade in ACCT 201 or ACCT 201H; Restricted to
SBA honors students   
This course highlights the differences between ﬁnancial accounting and
managerial accounting. The course begins by completing the study of
transactions and events affecting ﬁnancial statements. The cash flow
statement is then explored in some detail. Finally, ﬁnancial statement
analysis as traditionally practiced, is considered a capstone for ﬁnancial
accounting. The course then focuses on the use of accounting da ta by
management. Product costing in a manufacturing setting, assigning of
costs to objects, learning how costs behave, and the use of accounting
data by management in planning operations, controlling operations, and
in short term decision making are all investigated.
Course equivalencies:  ACCT202/ACCT202H/ACACT201   
Outcomes:
The student will be able to understand the differences between cash and
accrual accounting, the use of ratio analysis in investing and managing
decisions, the value and importance of identifying and allocating costs,
and the methods involved in the budgeting process
ACCT 303   Intermediate Accounting I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore Standing and ACCT 202 with grade of C- or
higher; ACCT 202 may also be taken as a corequisite   
The ﬁrst in a series of courses designed to provide in-depth coverage of
the generally accepted principles underlying ﬁnancial statements and
ﬁnancial reporting, from conceptual framework to application. Topics
include alternatives for measurement of revenue and asset valuation,
and presentation of ﬁnancial statements. Lectures, discussions, and
technical readings are supplemented with extensive problem and written
assignments.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate their understanding of the accounting  process
leading to ﬁnancial reports; Furthermore students will also develop the
ability to apply critical thinking and analytical skills toward the solution
of problems concerning valuation of assets, and revenue and expense
recognitionACCT 304   Intermediate Accounting II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing, a minimum grade of "C-" in ACCT 303
or Graduate Business student   
This course is an extension of Intermediate I where students use the
conceptual framework to consistently evaluate and explain accounting
practice. This allows the student to not only understand the accounting
methodologies but also recognize why these approaches are generally
superior to alternative accounting treatments. Topics include concepts
of present and future value, investments in ﬁnancial instruments (debt
and equity), leases, pensions, income taxes, earnings per share, and the
statement of cash flow.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the
professional pronouncements as they relate to the measurement,
recognition, and reporting of ﬁnancial information; Students will also
be able to demonstrate an understanding of how to research relevant
accounting issues to better prepare for professional certiﬁcation
ACCT 306   Advanced Financial Accounting   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior standing; minimum grade of C- in ACCT 304   
Topics include accounting for business combinations, cost & equity
method investments, consolidated ﬁnancial statements, governmental
& not-for-proﬁt, & accounting for multinational entities. Course includes
extensive problem assignments.
Interdisciplinary Option:  International Business   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the accounting for corporate acquisitions,
corporate consolidations including intercompany transactions,
governmental and not-for-proﬁt and international accounting issues
ACCT 307   Adv Accounting: Not-For-Proﬁt Entities & Adv Financial
Accounting Topics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing, a minimum grade of "C-" in
ACCT 303   
Topics include accounting concepts as applied to state and local
government, along with ﬁnancial reporting for other not-for-proﬁt entities
including hospitals, universities, and voluntary health and welfare
organizations. Class may be taken prior to ACCT 306.
Outcomes:
Students will gain a comprehensive knowledge of the reporting
requirements of not-for-proﬁt entities
ACCT 308   Accounting Information Systems and Sustainability
Reporting   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Minimum grade of "C-" in ACCT 303 & INFS 247;
Sophomore standing   
Enrollment is open to Graduate Business Students. Included among
the topics covered in this course are the primary accounting cycles,
accounting information system internal controls, and selective fraud
issues. Students will also build flowcharting skills and gain experience
working on an enterprise resource planning system (ERP) with real-world
company data.
Outcomes:
Students develop an application and analysis level of learning regarding
the function of an accounting information system in business with
speciﬁc emphasis on risk management, along with the ability to work
with and deploy ERP tools

--- Page 707 ---
738  Quinlan School of Business
ACCT 311   Auditing & Internal Control Systems   (3 Credit Hours)   
Course involves an in-depth investigation of internal control structure
and systems and the theory of audit evidence. Theoretical principles
and practical issues involved in planning and executing an audit are
explored. Internal control policies and procedures and principal evidence
techniques for major transaction cycles or account groups are studied in
depth. Study of appropriate AICPA professional standards is an integral
part of this course.
Outcomes:
Students who successfully complete this course will be able to:
understand the role of professional standards in the audit of ﬁnancial
statements; demonstrate their ability to research those standards; and
demonstrate their understanding of the audit process in particular the
roles of evidence and internal control
ACCT 317   Managerial Accounting   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing; minimum grade of "C-" in ACCT 303   
This course critically evaluates product cost for inventory valuation
and income determination, with an emphasis on budgeting and con trol
procedures. Topics discussed include job order costing, process costing,
activity-based costing, full absorption and direct costing, overhead
allocation, and more. The course incorporates computer applications to
managerial accounting analysis.
Course equivalencies:  ACCT 317/ACCT 301   
ACCT 323   Advanced CPA Topics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing; minimum grade of "C-" in ACCT 311   
Topics include: audit and other reports, statistical sampling in auditing,
attestation standards, reporting on future-oriented information,
accountant's legal liability, Securities & Exchange Commission practice,
professional ethics and using technology in auditing.
Outcomes:
Students will be familiar with issues under the AICPA Code of
Professional Conduct, pronouncements of the Public Companies
Accounting Oversight Board, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, federal securities
laws, and cases relating to CPA malpractice; Students will have a
thorough professional knowledge of CPA reports on ﬁnancial statements
and special reports; Students will also learn how to apply statistical
sampling in auditing
ACCT 326   Fraud Investigation   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore Standing, minimum grade of "C-" in ACCT 311   
Theoretical principles and practical issues involved in planning and
executing an investigation are explored including internal control
structure and evidence.
Outcomes:
Understand fraud investigation and the role it plays in the legal process;
Understand and be able to apply investigative techniques in solving
ﬁnancial crimes
ACCT 328   Concepts in Taxation   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing; minimum grade of "C-" in ACCT 201
and 202   
This course provides a thorough exposure to federal income tax concepts
and planning principles, with particular reference to individual taxpayers.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate a basic core of technical knowledge
concerning the federal income tax as it applies to individuals, an
understanding of the conceptual and tax policy issues that underlie tax
legislation, and fundamental skills in tax compliance, tax planning, and
tax researchACCT 331   Introduction to the Business of Applied Artiﬁcial
Intelligence   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ISSCM 241 or STAT 103   
This course provides a concise introduction to Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI)
with a focus on applied business applications of machine learning and
generative AI. Through engaging lectures, interactive labs, and exposure
to real-world use cases, students will gain a deep understanding of the
key concepts and practical business applications of AI. Students will
also gain a fundamental understanding of how AI models are built and
deployed to enhance their skills and career advancement. The latest
applications of AI in marketing, accounting, ﬁnance, and retail will also be
explored.
Outcomes:
Students will develop an understanding of how AI is executed in business
settings, from ideation to deployment, and the tools and frameworks
applied; Students will gain an understanding of core AI concepts,
including machine learning and generative AI; Students will discover
how models are built and evaluated to analyze data for prediction and
generative AI to deliver actionable insights; Students will gain insights
into ethical AI practices to be able to recognize and address ethical and
social considerations to deploy AI responsibly; Students will explore
business use cases to understand AI solutions applied to business
challenges across domains such as accounting, ﬁnance, and retail; This
course will foster collaboration and communication skills development
by having students present AI-driven solutions effectively, translating
solutions into impactful business narratives
ACCT 341   Advanced Studies in Taxation   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing, minimum grade of "C-" in ACCT 328   
This course provides a thorough exposure to the federal income tax
concepts and planning principles applicable to business entities, trusts,
and estates and to federal transfer taxes.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate a basic core of technical knowledge
concerning the federal income tax as it applies to business entities
and to the federal gift, estate, and generation-skipping-transfer taxes,
an enhanced understanding of the conceptual and tax policy issues
that underlie tax legislation, and enhanced skills in tax compliance, tax
research, and tax planning
ACCT 350   Accounting Full Time Winter Internship   (6 Credit Hours)   
Department Chair permission is required for registration. Students
enrolled in this course are participating in a full time internship
experience with an accounting ﬁrm.
Outcomes:
Students will work 40+ hours for an accounting ﬁrm during the spring
semester
ACCT 395   Independent Study in Accounting   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior standing, Instructor and Dean permission required   
Independent study is in-depth research or reading, initiated by the student
and jointly developed with a faculty member, into a specialized area
of accounting not otherwise covered by department course offerings.
Variable credit is allowed for the course. This course will not count
toward major requirements. Permission of dean required.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an in-depth understanding of a technical
accounting topic

--- Page 708 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 739
ACCT 399   Special Topics in Accounting   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing or above   
Scheduled classes are offered on an ad hoc basis. Speciﬁc titles,
prerequisites and content will vary.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of specialized topics
not otherwise covered by department regular course offerings
Business Ethics (ETHC)
ETHC 341   Ethics in Business   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior standing; minimum grade of C- in MGMT 201 or
HSM 368 and ECON 202   
This course focuses on ethical issues in the world of business and
commerce. This course will address a number of interrelated questions:
What are the rights and obligations of business in society? Can
businesses "do good" and "do well"? Is business ethics a viable goal or an
unachievable ideal?
Course equivalencies:  PHIL185/283/MGMT341/H/BHNR341   
ETHC 341H   Ethics in Business - Honors   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior standing; minimum grade of "C-" in MGMT 201 or
MGMT 201H and ECON 202 or ECON 202H; restricted to SBA honors
students   
This course focuses on ethical issues in the world of business and
commerce. This course will address a number of interrelated questions:
What are the rights and obligations of business in society? Can
businesses "do good" and "do well"? Is business ethics a viable goal or an
unachievable ideal?
Course equivalencies:  PHIL185/283/MGMT341/H/BHNR341   
ETHC 399   Special Topics in Business Ethics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior standing   
Special topics are scheduled classes offered on an ad hoc basis. Speciﬁc
titles and content will vary.
Outcomes:
Varies with topic
Business Honors (BHNR)
BHNR 300   Business Honors Seminar-Required   (0 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Restricted to students in the Quinlan Business Honors
program   
This seminar is a non-graded program requirement providing honors
students with opportunities to learn from and network with leaders at
major companies and organizations. Seminar is primarily a speaker
series presenting honors students with opportunities to attend corporate
and organizational site visits, social activities, and other events. Through
seminar, honors students are able to network with each other and build
community.
Outcomes:
Encourage bonding, stimulate thoughtful interaction, provide connections
with the faculty, and connect to the broader business and alumni
communityBHNR 343   Integrated Analytical Decision Making   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Enrollment is restricted to Business Honors students;
Junior Standing; C- or better in ISSCM 241 or ISSCM 241H or STAT 103   
This course will focus on the analysis of data, with applications of
techniques to business problems. Students will conduct original research
and create both a written analysis and presentation. This course satisﬁes
the Engaged Learning requirement.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
At the end of this course, the student will know how to formulate a
business problem, then collect and analyze data, and interpret results
that address the problem
BHNR 353   Research Practicum   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces students to the process of business research,
including research ethics as well as implications of research outcomes in
the broader business and social context. Good research helps business
managers understand issues and make informed decisions.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
BHNR 395   Independent Study in Business Honors   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing, Department Consent Required   
Student will conduct in-depth research or reading, initiated by the student
and jointly developed with a faculty member into a specialized area as
determined between student and faculty member.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an in-depth understanding of a
specialized area or topic of research
Economics (ECON)
ECON 201   Principles of Microeconomics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100, PLSC 102, PSYC 100, SOCL 101, WSGS 101, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course is an introduction to demand and supply, consumer choice,
price analysis in alternative industrial organizations, and the distribution
of income.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  ECON201/201H/ACECO201/CPST243   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to think critically about price formation  in different
market structures, and how prices, household incomes and income
distribution in a diverse society are determined with interpretations
based on the concepts of opportunity costs and decision making under
uncertainty

--- Page 709 ---
740  Quinlan School of Business
ECON 201H   Principles of Microeconomics - Honors   (3 Credit Hours)   
Requirement: ANTH 100, PLSC 102, PSYC 100 or SOCL 101 for students
admitted to Loyola University for Fall 2012 or later. No requirement for
students admitted to Loyola prior to Fall 2012 or those with a declared
major or minor in the Department of Anthropology, Department of
Criminal Justice, Department of Economics, Department of Psychology,
Department of Political Science, the Department of Sociology, Human
Services or the School of Nursing. Restricted to SBA honors students or
Honors students. This course is an introduction to demand and supply,
consumer choice, price analysis in alternative industrial organizations,
and the distribution of income.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  ECON201/201H/ACECO201/CPST243   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to think critically about price formation  in different
market structures, and how prices, household incomes and income
distribution in a diverse society are determined with interpretations
based on the concepts of opportunity costs and decision making under
uncertainty
ECON 202   Principles of Macroeconomics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ANTH 100, PLSC 102, PSYC 100, SOCL 101, WSGS 101, or
equivalent; please check requirements for declared majors/minors for
exceptions   
This course is an introduction to national product, its components, money
and the real sectors and business fluctuations.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Societal Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  ECON202/ECON202H/ACECO202/245   
Outcomes:
The students will be able to think critically about the economic
environment of the nation and to measure growth, unemployment,
inflation, ﬁscal and monetary policies of the government, to ultimately
understand economic stability and the welfare of the individual citizen
ECON 202H   Principles of Macroeconomics - Honors   (3 Credit Hours)   
Restricted to SBA honors students or Honors students. This course is
an introduction to national product, its components, money and the real
sectors and business fluctuations.
Course equivalencies:  ECON202/ECON202H/ACECO202/245   
Outcomes:
The students will be able to think critically about the economic
environment of the nation and to measure growth, unemployment,
inflation, ﬁscal and monetary policies of the government, to ultimately
understand economic stability and the welfare of the individual citizen
ECON 303   Intermediate Microeconomics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing; minimum grade of C- in ECON 201
or 201H; ECON 202 or 202H; and one of the following: MATH 130,
MATH 131, or MATH 161   
This course is a detailed study of consumer and ﬁrm behavior, market
structures, and the elementary propositions concerning welfare
economics.
Course equivalencies:  ECON303/303H   
Outcomes:
The students will develop analytical skills to understand and predict
consumer and ﬁrm behavior, understand the underlying pinning of
antitrust legislation and dynamic market strategiesECON 304   Intermediate Macroeconomics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing; minimum grade of C- in ECON 201
or ECON 201H; ECON 202 or ECON 202H; and one of the following:
MATH 130, MATH 131, or MATH 161   
This course develops the framework used by economists in government,
business and academia to analyze the key determinants of economic
growth, the business cycle, unemployment, inflation, the level of interest
and exchange rates, as well as explaining how all these variables are
influenced by monetary and ﬁscal policy.
Outcomes:
The students are able to understand and critically analyze business
cycles, ﬁnancial market fluctuations, and to study inflation and
unemployment policies
ECON 320   Urban Economics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing, minimum grade of "C-" in ECON 201
and 202   
This course analyzes the economic role and functioning of cities and
examines urban issues such as real estate markets, transportation,
economic development, and crime.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Urban Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-ECON320/URB320   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the economic forces that shape urban
agglomerations; Students will understand the economic and ethical
trade-offs of various urban economic policies; They will be able to think
critically about the economic forces that make a city grow and contract
over time
ECON 323   International Economics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing, minimum grade of "C-" in ECON 201
and 202   
This course analyzes microeconomic and macroeconomic theories
of global trade; balance of payments, adjustment problems and the
international monetary system.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, International Business   
Course equivalencies:  X-ECON323/INTS323   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate the ability to critically apply
microeconomic and macroeconomic concepts to the understanding of
international economic phenomena/problems; This course emphasizes
the role of economic leadership to promote peace and justice in a global
diverse world
ECON 324   International Monetary Relations   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing, minimum grade of "C-" in ECON 201
and 202   
Examination of the operation of the international monetary system and
an analysis of the determination of currency flows between countries,
with topics of balance of payments statements, currency flows between
countries, determination of exchange rates, and international liquidity
problems.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, International Business   
Course equivalencies:  X-ECON324/INTS324   
Outcomes:
Student will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the operation of
the international currency market and be able to analyze exchange rates
with an emphasis on international liquidity and currency problems, and
risk management of currency fluctuations

--- Page 710 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 741
ECON 325   Economics of Growth & Development   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing, minimum grade of "C-" in ECON 201
and 202   
This course describes and analyzes the problems and policy issues
facing developing countries and the third world with respect to their
economic and social policies and programs.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, International Business   
Course equivalencies:  X-ECON325/INTS325   
Outcomes:
The students are trained to evaluate the economic conditions that are
conducive to economic growth and critically assess ethical arguments as
they relate to growth, trade, and poverty in emerging countries; The role of
leadership is emphasized
ECON 327   American Economic & Business History   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing, minimum grade of "C-" in ECON 201
and 202   
This course emphasizes the evolution and the role of past business
leaders of the American economy from the colonial times to the present,
emphasizing the entrepreneurs and the environments in which they
operated. Economic and business change in the period 1865-1914
receives particular attention, as do the enterprises of Chicago-area
entrepreneurs.
Outcomes:
Students learn the skills required of entrepreneurs and business leaders
and their contribution to society; Students will develop an awareness
of the historical dynamics that produced the current economy, and how
its institutions evolved and the importance of markets in allocating
resources
ECON 328   Environmental Economics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing, minimum grade of "C-" in ECON 201   
This course applies economic theory to environmental and natural
resource problems and policies, investigates the role economic incentives
play, and discusses externalities, property rights, common property
problems, pollution and pollution control, and renewable and non-
renewable resource management.
Course equivalencies:  X-ECON328/ESP 328   
Outcomes:
Students will understand that environmental problems are fundamentally
economic problems that come about because there is a market failure
(eg, an externality or public good) and that environmental problems have
economic solutions
ECON 329   Health Economics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing and a minimum grade of "C-" in
ECON 201   
This course provides an understanding of the unique economic
complexities of the health care industry and individual health behaviors.
Relying on economic principles of scarcity, efﬁciency, productivity,
and market behavior, demand and supply of health care, the role of
government in determining health care policy, and medical practices are
explored.ECON 334   Economics of Government Expenditures & Taxation   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing, minimum grade of "C-" in ECON 303
and 304   
This course is an analysis of taxation and expenditure, instruments and
policies as they relate to the allocative, distributive, and stabilization
functions of government and society and ethical responsibilities of each.
Outcomes:
The student are able to understand and analyze public policy issues,
speciﬁcally as it relates to the voting process, size of government, tax
policy debates, and long-term problems of transfer payments in an aging
society
ECON 336   Monetary and Fiscal Policy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing, minimum grade of "C-" in ECON 201,
202 and 304   
This course uses macroeconomics to critically analyze the evolution of
monetary and ﬁscal policy from the late 19th century to the present as
well as current trends and topics relating to monetary and ﬁscal policy.
Outcomes:
Students will develop critical economic thinking skills as they apply
macroeconomic theory to historical events and discuss the potential
future paths of the world economy and for assessing the leadership
role of the government and Federal Reserve System in stabilizing the
domestic and world economy
ECON 346   Econometrics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing; minimum grade of "C-" in ISSCM 241
or ISSCM 241H or STAT 103; ECON 202; ECON 303; and MATH 130 or
MATH 131 or MATH 161   
This course teaches students how to use statistical tools to evaluate
hypotheses about economic models.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to interpret and critically analyze quantitative
information related to economics; Students will understand regression
analysis and understand how to use it to test economic models and
to measure important economic parameters, and to predict economic
relationships
ECON 360   Labor Economics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing, minimum grade of "C-" in ECON 303   
This course is an intensive examination of the market for labor services,
and discusses wage determination, occupational and earnings
differentials, diversity, investments in education, collective bargaining,
and the ethical implications of labor market inequality.
Outcomes:
Students will gain a broad understanding of how economists study
labor market issues and outcomes, and be able to use critical economic
reasoning to better appreciate such issues as labor force participation
decisions, human capital, and the variation in wages across individuals
ECON 370   Pricing & Industrial Organization   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing, minimum grade of "C-" in ECON 303   
This course investigates ﬁrm behavior, strategies and market outcomes
in settings of less than perfect competition.
Outcomes:
Students learn to evaluate various strategies both in terms of ﬁrm
proﬁtability as well as consumer surplus

--- Page 711 ---
742  Quinlan School of Business
ECON 395   Independent Study in Economics   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing, instructor and dean permission
required   
Student will conduct in-depth research or reading, initiated by the student
and jointly developed with a faculty member, into a specialized area of
Economics not otherwise covered by department course offerings.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate in-depth understanding of a
specialized area or topic in Economics
ECON 399   Special Topics in Economics   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing   
Scheduled classes are offered on an ad hoc basis. Speciﬁc titles,
prerequisites and content will vary.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of specialized topics
not otherwise covered by department regular course offerings
Entrepreneurship (ENTR)
ENTR 201   Essentials of Entrepreneurship   (3 Credit Hours)   
Introduces students to the process of entrepreneurship and how to
think like an entrepreneur. Students will learn how new entrepreneurial
opportunities are conceived, vetted, and acted upon. Course knowledge
and skills are presented through a combination of theory and application
that will prepare students to move to next level of entrepreneurial studies.
Course equivalencies:  MGMT381/ENTR310/ENTR201   
Outcomes:
Students will gain insight into the process of entrepreneurship and
entrepreneurial mindset; Students will learn to identify problems in the
marketplace and discover how to turn these ideas into viable products
and services
ENTR 311   Social Entrepreneurship   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore Standing, minimum grade of "C-" in ENTR 201
or ETHC 341   
Explore how innovative solutions can address social issues and create
sustainable impact. Learn to design, implement, and scale ventures
that combine business principles with social change. Engage with
case studies, develop entrepreneurial skills, and build a framework for
launching ventures that contribute to societal well being.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
An understanding of what is social entrepreneurship and how it differs
from traditional entrepreneurship and non-proﬁt organizations; An
understanding of how to build and manage a successful social venture
ENTR 313   Entrepreneurship - Global Opportunity Scan   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore Standing, minimum grade of "C-" in ENTR 201
or IBUS 201   
With the power of the Internet, entrepreneurs can quickly research, ﬁnd,
and reach new markets. However, successfully and proﬁtably engaging
in a global marketplace requires understanding conflicting and changing
business dynamics, barriers to entry into the international arena, and
challenging management practices.
Outcomes:
An understanding of the characteristics of international markets,
including the critical challenges of global expansion and the barriers that
exist; Ability to apply the appropriate frameworks to scan for international
business opportunitiesENTR 345   Entrepreneurial Marketing   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore Standing, minimum grade of "C-" in ENTR 201
or MARK 201   
This course will explore the whole marketing concept, starting with
understanding the customer and how the customer changes over the
product lifecycle. The course will then explore common marketing
channels and sales methods entrepreneurs use and debate their
effectiveness at each stage of business.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Demonstrate an understanding of marketing of entrepreneurial ventures,
the various channels and tactics entrepreneurs use to attract customers
and changes over time, and product lifecycle management and customer
engagement
ENTR 390   Entrepreneurship Strategies - Capstone   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior Standing, minimum grade of "C-" in ENTR 201 or
ENTR 310   
Students will understand how to build a product/service that is attractive
to customers yet differentiates it from its competitors. The students will
learn how to grow the venture using sales and marketing channels, strong
team building, and the ﬁnancial implications of their decisions.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Demonstrate understanding of the importance of core business
operational areas, how to launch and grow a new venture, and
problem¿solving and critical thinking skills through case analysis,
experiential activities, and team¿based project work
ENTR 395   Independent Study   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior standing; Instructor and Dean permission   
Independent Study is an in¿depth research or reading project initiated
by the student and jointly developed with a faculty member into a
specialized area of entrepreneurship not otherwise covered by the
department course offerings.
Outcomes:
Varies with topic
ENTR 399   Selected Topics in Entrepreneurship   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior standing   
Special Topics are scheduled classes offered on an ad hoc basis. Speciﬁc
titles and content will vary.
Outcomes:
Varies with topic
Executive Education (EXED)
EXED 101   High-Impact Leadership: Maximizing Your Leadership
Potential   (0 Credit Hours)   
High-Impact Leadership: Maximizing Your Leadership Potential combines
the best practices and principles behind the art and science of leadership,
decision-making, problem solving and organizational effectiveness.
Outcomes:
Gain an understanding of your leadership style, explore the discipline
of leadership, learn the best practices for improving individual and
organizational decision making, gain the strategies to build successful
teams, manage conflict more effectively and link individual performance
to organizational strategy

--- Page 712 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 743
EXED 102   Project Management Certiﬁcate Program   (0 Credit Hours)   
This program will improve participants' performance by providing
industry-standard tools approved by the Project Management Institute
(PMI®) to help successfully manage any type of project regardless of
scope or industry.
Outcomes:
Gain a comprehensive, formal training in project management, based on
the industry-standard body of knowledge; Learn the fundamental tools
to effectively manage any project; Learn how to manage projects from
initiation, to planning, control and closeout; Learn how to communicate
more effectively to project sponsors and team members
EXED 103   mini-MBA Certiﬁcate Program   (0 Credit Hours)   
The Loyola mini-MBA is a comprehensive management development
program that provides cutting-edge business skills, coaching and
leadership training to help propel your organization and your career
forward.
Outcomes:
Strengthen overall business acumen and gain a better understanding of
the key functional areas of business, including the frameworks, models
and levers that drive organizational success; Develop the skills needed to
think strategically and cross-functionally
EXED 104   Digital Marketing Strategy Certiﬁcate Program   (0 Credit
Hours)   
This program provides a thorough foundation in the rapidly changing
world of digital marketing and prepare you to strategically choose,
measure, and implement the right digital marketing components into your
overall marketing plan.
Outcomes:
This program provides a thorough foundation in the rapidly changing
world of digital marketing and prepare you to strategically choose,
measure, and implement the right digital marketing components into your
overall marketing plan
EXED 105   Baumhart Center Learning Institutes   (0 Credit Hours)   
Professional Development skills in Social Enterprise Responsibility
EXED 107   Practical Finance and Accounting   (0 Credit Hours)   
Participants will learn a comprehensive approach to ﬁnancial analysis.
This program provides a grounding in basic managerial ﬁnance, including
terminology like valuation, capital investment, ﬁnancing, and capital
structure.
Outcomes:
Develop comfort with the terminology and techniques used in managerial
accounting and ﬁnancial analysis; Learn to conﬁdently read and analyze
corporate ﬁnancial statements; Understand the role of capital budgeting
EXED 108   Strategic Business Communications   (0 Credit Hours)   
This program teaches techniques to communicate fluently in a variety of
situations. Participants learn simple and effective methods to become a
more powerful communicator with peers, subordinates, and supervisors.
Outcomes:
Learn to present ideas at face-to-face and virtual meetings; Gain
tools to conﬁdently express yourself; Learn to gain support for ideas
and suggestions; Understand how to use technology to support
communication; Reduce conflictEXED 109   Supply Chain Management Essentials   (0 Credit Hours)   
Participants learn the fundamentals of effective supply chain
management across the end-to-end supply chain. The certiﬁcate program
addresses a wide spectrum of supply chain techniques designed to
reduce cost, improve proﬁtability, and maximize the customer experience
while balancing social, environmental, and economic concerns.
Outcomes:
Learn techniques to create a more efﬁcient and effective supply chain
and understanding of key trends, opportunities, and challenges in supply
chain management
EXED 110   Lean Certiﬁcation   (0 Credit Hours)   
Loyola will offer a new, online platform Lean Certiﬁcation.
Outcomes:
To have more knowledge on Lean practices in Supply Chain and Logistics
areas
EXED 111   Six Sigma Certiﬁcation   (0 Credit Hours)   
Loyola will offer a new, online platform for Six Sigma Certiﬁcations.
Outcomes:
To have more knowledge on Six sigma for managers
EXED 151   Sysmex America mini-MBA   (0 Credit Hours)   
Customized mini-MBA that includes Accounting/Finance, Strategy,
Marketing, Project Management and Management.
Outcomes:
The mini-MBA is intended for employees across various Sysmex
functional areas, from both the home ofﬁce as well as ﬁeld operations;
The content will be delivered electronically for two cohort groups
EXED 152   Sysmex America Birth of a Customer   (0 Credit Hours)   
Sysmex Birth of a Customer provides participants with an in-depth look at
the internal strategy at Sysmex.
Outcomes:
Panels of senior executives assisted by a faculty moderator talk about
how the various elements of organizational strategy combine to meet
client needs; Participants complete a related case study
EXED 153   Presence Healthcare Ministry Leadership Program   (0 Credit
Hours)   
Providing training in the basics of Catholic mission, identity, ethics,
and leadership, the Certiﬁcate in Heath Care Ministry Leadership will
prepare Presence Health staff to carry out its mission of providing
compassionate, holistic care in the spirit of healing and hope to the
communities it serves.
Outcomes:
This program is designed to build a community of leaders with shared
formation experience, explore authentic paths to spirituality, develop an
understanding of how vacation and call relates to Catholic healthcare,
and strengthen overall leadership acumen and strategic thinking abilities
EXED 165   Barilla Leadership & Management Development Program   (0
Credit Hours)   
This custom program is designed to support the development of a
leadership pipeline at Barilla. The program consists of 3 learning modules
and integrated capstone projects and covers leadership and business
acumen topics.
Outcomes:
Strengthen overall business acumen and gain a better understanding of
the key functional areas of business, including the frameworks, models
and levers that drive organizational success; Develop strategy skills

--- Page 713 ---
744  Quinlan School of Business
EXED 170   McShane Companies Leadership Emphasis   (0 Credit Hours)   
Formal leadership training provided as a component of the McShane
Future Leaders Program.
Outcomes:
Improved leadership and strategy acumen
EXED 173   American College of Surgeons - Leadership   (0 Credit Hours)   
Customized leadership training for the executive leadership team at
American College of Surgeons, includes Leadership Legacy and Decision-
Making.
Outcomes:
Provide senior leaders with ongoing leadership skill development
EXED 174   The Cradle   (0 Credit Hours)   
Participants will learn Leadership Development and Change Management
Essentials.
Outcomes:
To have more leadership team at The Cradle
EXED 175   Yaskawa America Inc.   (0 Credit Hours)   
Participants will learn Negotiation Skills for their Supply Chain team.
Outcomes:
To have more knowledge on negotiations skills for their sales team
EXED 176   MorrisAnderson   (0 Credit Hours)   
Participants will learn Leadership skills in a 3 hour workshop.
Outcomes:
To assist their team with new managers getting up to speed on their
leadership soft skill
EXED 177   Family Business Center Learning Institutes   (0 Credit Hours)   
Three institutes from FBC are moving their education to EE. This includes
Family Business Stewardship Institute, Next Generation Leadership
Institute and Governance Institute.
Outcomes:
To assist family business staff with challenges they face within their
family organization
EXED 178   Cook County State's Attorney's Ofﬁce Leadership   (0 Credit
Hours)   
Participants will learn leadership skills during their 3-hour seminar.
Outcomes:
to have more knowledge on managing their teams with the CCSAO
EXED 179   C.H. Robinson Professional Development Programs   (0 Credit
Hours)   
Participants will learn negotiations and sales training.
Outcomes:
To have more knowledge for their team on sale tactics
EXED 180   World's Finest Chocolate Anti Harasssment Training   (0 Credit
Hours)   
The entire staff of WFC will participate in a Loyola created and moderated
Anti-Harassment Training.
Outcomes:
To have more knowledge to speak up against harassment in the
workplace
EXED 181   Campus Brasil MBA International Program   (0 Credit Hours)   
Campus Brasil is partnering with a University in Brazil to send 40 MBA
students to Loyola this summer.
Outcomes:
To have more knowledge on business global affairs in America vs Brazil
EXED 182   Centene Corporation   (0 Credit Hours)   
Participants will learn Strategy skills for the management team.
Outcomes:
To have more knowledge on negotiations skills for their sales teamEXED 183   Litera Microsystems   (0 Credit Hours)   
Participants will learn leadership development skills during an off-site
three-day program for their team.
Outcomes:
To have more knowledge of leadership skills for their sales team
EXED 184   Medline Industries   (0 Credit Hours)   
Participants will learn negotiation skills during an off-site two-day
program for their engineering team.
Outcomes:
To have more knowledge of negotiation skills for their team
EXED 185   Anthony Marano Company   (0 Credit Hours)   
Participants will learn leadership development skills during a two month
program for their Executive Team and Sales Team.
Outcomes:
To have more knowledge of leadership and negotiation skills for their
team
EXED 186   Box Studio   (0 Credit Hours)   
Participants will learn project management skills during a two day
program for executive team of their small business.
Outcomes:
To have a company wide understanding for a project management model
EXED 187   Triple S   (0 Credit Hours)   
Participants will learn business soft skills for their family owned
businesses who are identiﬁed as "emerging leaders" via an association
called Triple S.
Outcomes:
To have a good business background when ﬁnishing the program
EXED 188   Real Estate Investment Strategy   (0 Credit Hours)   
Participants will learn from industry experts on how to invest smartly in
real estate.
Outcomes:
To have more knowledge of the real estate industry and the Chicago
market
EXED 189   Edelman Procurement 101 Program   (0 Credit Hours)   
Participants will learn best practices in procurement.
Outcomes:
To have more knowledge of the real estate industry and the Chicago
market
EXED 190   FBC Peer Advisory Group   (0 Credit Hours)   
FBC Peer Advisory Group for Family Business Center Members.
Outcomes:
Resolution of family business issues thru discussion
EXED 191   Fundraising for Good   (0 Credit Hours)   
Baumhart Center Fundraising Sessions.
Outcomes:
Social Impact Fundraising Seminar
EXED 192   Ciena 1 - Day Negotiations Conference Program   (0 Credit
Hours)   
Participants will learn negotiations strategies and skills.
Outcomes:
To have more knowledge on negotiation skills for their sales team
EXED 193   Cook County Sheriff's Ofﬁce - Executive Leadership
Management Program   (0 Credit Hours)   
Participants will learn management / leadership strategies and skills.
Outcomes:
To have more knowledge on negotiation skills for their sales team

--- Page 714 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 745
EXED 194   Next Generation Leadership Institute   (0 Credit Hours)   
Next generation leadership class for family businesses.
EXED 195   Chicago Community Trust   (0 Credit Hours)   
Participants will learn leadership development skills during a two day
program for their Executive team.
Outcomes:
To have more knowledge of leadership skills for their team
EXED 196   Lumberman Leadership Summit 2019   (0 Credit Hours)   
Participants will learn leadership development skills during a two day
program for their Executive team.
Outcomes:
To have more knowledge of leadership skills for their team
EXED 197   Open Enrollment: SHRM Certiﬁcation Prep Class   (0 Credit
Hours)   
Participants will learn HR principals for prep for the SHRM Certiﬁcation
Classes.
Outcomes:
To have more knowledge of human resource practices
EXED 198   Custom Program: The Northern Trust Company   (0 Credit
Hours)   
Participants will learn how to be professional advisors for their clients.
Outcomes:
To have more knowledge of business skills in cultivation
EXED 199   Custom Program: Peco Foods Supply Chain and Coms.   (0
Credit Hours)   
Participants will learn more supply chain skills and how to communicate
these skills to their groups.
Outcomes:
To have more knowledge of business skills in cultivation
EXED 200   Custom Program: Bish Creative Display Leadership   (0 Credit
Hours)   
Participants will learn more skills in executive presence via leadership
training courses.
Outcomes:
To have more knowledge of business skills leadership, management and
communication
EXED 201   FBC Goverence Institute   (0 Credit Hours)   
Participants will learn Gov. Institute Skills for the alumni of FBC.
Outcomes:
To have more knowledge of business skills leadership, management and
communication
EXED 202   Custom Program - Invenergy   (0 Credit Hours)   
Participants will learn leadership, management, presentation and
communication skills.
Outcomes:
To have more knowledge of business skills leadership, management and
communication
EXED 203   Custom Program - BluJay   (0 Credit Hours)   
Participants will learn negotiation skills.
Outcomes:
To have more knowledge communication skills via negotiations
EXED 204   Executive Education Master Classes - Open Enrollment
Classes   (0 Credit Hours)   
These 2-3 classes are designed to pipeline to additional paid
programming at LUC.EXED 205   Diversity, Equity and Inclusion   (0 Credit Hours)   
Classes for Baumhart Center.
Outcomes:
Business Acumen skill sets
EXED 206   Executive Education - Custom Program - Palo Alto
Networks   (0 Credit Hours)   
These 10 classes are designed to pipeline to additional paid
programming at LUC.
Outcomes:
Business Acumen skill sets
EXED 207   Executive Education Custom Program - PNC Bank   (0 Credit
Hours)   
5 - 1.5 hour lecturette series for professional development for the PNC
Bank team.
Outcomes:
Business Acumen skill sets
EXED 208   Executive Education Custom Program - Allstate   (0 Credit
Hours)   
3 month long professional development skills for the Allstate
procurement ofﬁcer.
Outcomes:
Business Acumen skill sets
EXED 209   Executive Education Custom Program-Mother McAuley Liberal
Arts High School   (0 Credit Hours)   
3 month long professional development skills for the Mother McAuley
leadership team on strategic planning.
Outcomes:
Business Acumen skill sets
EXED 210   Executive Ed Custom Prog-ILSBDC partnership with Loyola
Limited & InQbate   (0 Credit Hours)   
3 month long professional development skills small business owners, in
partnership with ILSBDC and Loyola Limited/InQbate
Outcomes:
Professional Marketing Skills Sets
EXED 211   Executive Education Custom Program-Transunion Women in
Ldrshp   (0 Credit Hours)   
A 15-18 month long professional development program with customized
case studies related to TU projects and business.
Outcomes:
Business Accument and Leadership Development skills
EXED 212   Executive Education Custom Program - Topco Associates   (0
Credit Hours)   
A 12 month, professional development program with customized classes
focused on Leadership.
Outcomes:
Business Accument and Leadership Development skills
EXED 213   Executive Education Custom Program - National Concierge
Association   (0 Credit Hours)   
A 1 day project management webinar: 90 minutes.
Outcomes:
Project Management Essentials
EXED 214   Executive Education Custom Prog-Alliance for Strong Families
& Connections   (0 Credit Hours)   
A 10 day program, broken up over two weeks, non-proﬁt managers
learning about putting good business skills, merging proﬁt and purpose.
Outcomes:
Non-proﬁt management skills

--- Page 715 ---
746  Quinlan School of Business
EXED 215   Executive Education Custom Program-Cristo Rey Network DEI
Strategy Program   (0 Credit Hours)   
Six sessions program for non-proﬁt managers learning about DEI
Strategy.
Outcomes:
Non-proﬁt management skills
EXED 216   Executive Education Custom Program-Dog Tag Fellows
Business Acumen Program   (0 Credit Hours)   
Six-month program for Dog Tag Fellows (veterans) for small business
skill sets.
Outcomes:
Non-proﬁt management skills
EXED 217   Executive Executive Custom Program - City of Chicago
Leadership program   (0 Credit Hours)   
Three session program for the City of Chicago's IG ofﬁce. on leadership
and management skills sets.
Outcomes:
Non-proﬁt management skills
Finance (FINC)
FINC 215   Personal Finance   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  None, does not count toward a concentration in ﬁnance   
This is an applied course in planning, organizing, and managing an
individual's personal ﬁnances.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of ﬁnancial planning, individual
income tax, time value of money, liquidity management, consumer credit,
insurance, employee beneﬁts, and the basics of personal investing
FINC 301   Introductory Business Finance   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing and C- or better in ISSCM 241 or
ISSCM 241H or STAT 103; ECON 201 or ECON 201H; and ACCT 201 or
ACCT 201H; ACCT 201 or 201H may also be taken as a co-requisite   
The objective of this course is to provide students with a basic
understanding of the general principles of business ﬁnance: capital
investment, ﬁnancing, capital structure, and related areas including the
basics of valuation.
Course equivalencies:  FINC332/FINC332H/CPST371   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate basic knowledge of ﬁnancial analysis, time
value of money, ﬁnancial decision making, the valuation of ﬁnancial and
physical assets, the risk-return tradeoff, capital budgeting, and dividend
policy
FINC 334   Principles of Corporate Finance   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing; minimum of C- or better in ECON 201
or ECON 201H; ISSCM 241 or ISSCM 241H or STAT 103; ACCT 201 or
ACCT 201H; and MATH 130 or MATH 131 or MATH 161; (ACCT 201 may
taken as a co-requisite)   
This course provides students with a foundational and integrated
knowledge of corporate ﬁnance. Topics include discounted cash flows,
ﬁrm valuation, capital budgeting, principals of the risk and return
relationship, market efﬁciency, capital structure, and ﬁnancing. Students
will be asked to independently complete the Bloomberg Market Concepts
(BMC) course.
Course equivalencies:  FINC332/FINC 334/CPST271   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of valuation principles, raising
funds for investment decisions, capital investment choices, risk and
return relationship, capital markets and instruments, all in the context of
real-world problems and situationsFINC 334H   Principles of Corporate Finance- Honors   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Open to students in the Quinlan Honors Program;
Sophomore standing; C- or better in ECON 201 or ECON 201H; ISSCM 241
or ISSCM 241H or STAT 103; ACCT 201 or ACCT 201H; and MATH 130 or
MATH 131 or MATH 161; (ACCT 201 may taken as a co-requisite)   
This course provides students with a foundational and integrated
knowledge of corporate ﬁnance. Topics include discounted cash flows,
ﬁrm valuation, capital budgeting, principals of the risk and return
relationship, market efﬁciency, capital structure, and ﬁnancing. Students
will be asked to independently complete the Bloomberg Market Concepts
(BMC) course.
Course equivalencies:  FINC332/FINC 334/CPST271   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate knowledge of valuation principles, raising
funds for investment decisions, capital investment choices, risk and
return relationship, capital markets and instruments, all in the context of
real-world problems and situations
FINC 335   Investments   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore Standing and minimum grade of "C-" in
FINC 334, FINC 334H or FINC 332, minimum grade of "C-" in MATH 130,
MATH 131 or MATH 161   
This course is an introductory course of capital market theory which
includes the topics of risk and return analysis of stocks, bonds and cash
equivalents; modern portfolio theory; bond pricing, the term structure of
interest.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate the analytical tools and ﬁnance
theory necessary for making good investment decisions and for
understanding the pricing of ﬁnancial securities
FINC 336   Introduction to Derivatives   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior standing, C- or better in FINC 335   
This course offers a high level introduction to three categories of
derivative markets: futures-forwards, swaps and options. Skills to be
developed include analytical and decision-making, creative thinking and
communication. Risk as both potential loss and opportunity for gain will
be highlighted. Cases will be used.
Outcomes:
Exploring ethical and social dimensions of risk management and use and
abuse of derivative securities
FINC 337   Banking, Money & Capital Markets   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior Standing, Minimum grade of "C-" in: FINC 301 or
FINC 332 or FINC 332H or FINC 334 or FINC 334H   
Introduction to ﬁnancial markets and institutions and to the Federal
Reserve and monetary policy.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of how ﬁnancial
markets and institutions work and are important to ﬁnancial decision
making, how interest rates and bond prices are determined and
interrelated, why and how ﬁnancial institutions are regulated by the
government, and who the Federal Reserve is and how its actions affect
the economy

--- Page 716 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 747
FINC 338   Risk Management and Insurance   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior Standing, Minimum grade of "C-" in FINC 301 or FINC
332 or FINC 332H or FINC 334 or FINC 334H   
Intro to risk identiﬁcation, risk evaluation & risk treatment methods.
Consideration is given to both business & personal risks, with an
emphasis on insurance as a risk management tool.
Outcomes:
This course will prepare students with practical risk management and
insurance principles/fundamentals, introduce risk management and
insurance techniques and apply risk management analytical methods
FINC 342   Advanced Business Finance   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior standing; Minimum grade of "C-" in FINC 335   
This is an advanced course in corporate ﬁnance where students are given
a thorough grounding in ﬁrm valuation and exposed to various ﬁnancial
decisions including raising capital, mergers and acquisitions, leveraged
buyouts, spin-offs, and carve-outs, all in the context of their impact on
ﬁrm value.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of ﬁrm valuation,
as well as the impact of various corporate decisions on ﬁrm value
FINC 345   Portfolio Management   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior standing; Minimum grade of "C-" in FINC 335   
Topics include a critical appraisal of the efﬁcient market hypothesis,
asset allocation using the Markowitz mean-variance framework,
fundamental and technical analysis, and mutual fund performance
evaluation.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will understand how stocks and other assets are selected;
how economic and company information is monitored and used to
adjust portfolio holdings; and how portfolios can be optimized to achieve
targeted risk/return characteristics
FINC 346   Introduction to Options   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior standing; Minimum grade of "C-" in FINC 335   
This class offers a comprehensive introduction to options, including
a detailed examination of option markets, option properties, trading
strategies using options, binomial tree and Black-Scholes valuation
models, and hedging strategies using options.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of option  markets,
option pricing models and how options can be used to hedge risks
FINC 347   Financial Institutions   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior Standing, Minimum grade of "C-" in FINC 301 or FINC
332 or FINC 332H or FINC 334 or FINC 334H   
A study of the crucial role played by ﬁnancial institutions. The course will
be a blend of theory and analysis of the present institutional structure.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the following: the
important role of ﬁnancial intermediaries, interest rate risks, credit risks,
market risk, and also risk management through capital adequacy and
hedging risk with ﬁnancial derivativesFINC 349   Real Estate Finance & Investments   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior standing, Minimum C- in FINC 334   
Basic principles of real estate ﬁnance as well as practical applications.
Learn topics, theories and current developments in real estate. Solve
quantitative problems.
Outcomes:
General & working knowledge of real estate jargon and legal documents;
Calculate mathematical solutions to problems in real estate; Understand
time value of money related to real estate; Valuation of residential and
commercial properties
FINC 355   International Finance Management   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior Standing, Minimum grade of "C-" in FINC 301 or FINC
332 or FINC 332H or FINC 334 or FINC 334H   
This course examines the international dimensions of ﬁnancial
management. It introduces additional economic and ﬁnancial
opportunities/challenges faced by multinational corporations.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, International Business   
Course equivalencies:  X-FINC355/INTS369   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of foreign exchange
markets, fundamental international parity relationships, reasons for
international diversiﬁcation, steps in foreign exchange risk management,
and capital budgeting for multinational corporation
FINC 356   Advanced Topics in Investment Banking and Asset
Management   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  B- or higher in FINC 335   
This course examines selected topics in investment banking and asset
management, including stock and bond offerings, private equity, buyouts,
mergers and acquisitions. Students in the course research publicly traded
companies, write equity research reports and pitch investment ideas; they
also mentor junior analysts in the Rambler Investment Fund (RIF).
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Conduct research; Write an equity investment report and pitch a trade
idea; Value companies; Analyze investment banking transactions
FINC 357   Cases in Corporate Finance   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Senior standing; Minimum grade of "C-" in FINC 335   
This cases based course is designed to explore the practical application
of the major corporate ﬁnance topics.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand how corporations use the conceptual
aspects of corporate ﬁnance in real life settings; They will also learn
to use the necessary tools in evaluating various corporate investment
and ﬁnancing decisions; They will apply these tools in solving the cases
involving investment (such as building a new plant, or acquiring another
ﬁrm) and ﬁnancing (such as capital structure policy, and cost of capital)
decisions
FINC 358   Financial Analytics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior Standing and minimum "C-" in FINC 335   
This course focuses on how to use Python to build ﬁnancial models.
The course will examine ﬁnancial securities, portfolio optimization, and
valuation problems.
Outcomes:
Building ﬁnancial models with Python; Translating raw data into
meaningful variables for statistical analysis; Estimating statistical
models to drive investment decisions; Valuation of securities; Portfolio
optimization and implementing trading strategies

--- Page 717 ---
748  Quinlan School of Business
FINC 359   Introduction to Fintech   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior Standing   
Minimum grade of "C-" in FINC 301 or FINC 332 or FINC 332H or FINC 334
or FINC 334H. The primary objective of this course is to equip students
with economic insights to explore the current developments and future
opportunities for disruptive technologies in the ﬁnancial institutions and
ﬁnancial service sector. The course will take a ﬁnancial economic and
analytic perspective to augment ﬁnancial talents and entrepreneurship
with the necessary tools to understand the interaction of ﬁnance,
technology, and regulations. It will cover detailed topics of decentralized
ﬁnance (DeFi) infrastructure including blockchain technologies,
cryptocurrencies, and non-fungible tokens (NFTs). Further, it will explore
how the DeFi infrastructure together with artiﬁcial intelligence (AI) are
reshaping the current ecosystem of payments, capital raising, credit and
lending, investment, and risk management.
Outcomes:
Students will understand the key concepts of the disruptive technologies
in Fintech: blockchain technology, Non-fungible tokens, and Deﬁ
infrastructure; Students will comprehend the impacts on ﬁnancial
services through application of disruptive technology; Students will
develop the ability to outline the near and long-term possibilities
for Decentralized Finance (Deﬁ) and Fintech industry; Students will
understand the pricing methodologies for crypto assets and investments;
Students will understand the applications of Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI) and
Machine Learning in investment and risk management
FINC 365   Advanced International Financial Management   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  A minimum grade of "C-" in FINC 335 and FINC 355   
This course covers advanced topics in international ﬁnancial
management. The course builds on materials discussed in International
Financial Management (FINC 355). Speciﬁcally, this course exposes the
students to: foreign exchange risk management, currency swaps, foreign
exchange rate forecasting, efﬁciency of foreign exchange markets,
international capital structure and cost of capital, global investment,
multinational capital budgeting, multinational cash management,  cross-
border acquisitions, and international trade ﬁnance.
Outcomes:
Understand the global ﬁnancial markets, perform multinational capital
budgeting, and understand global portfolio management
FINC 395   Independent Study in Finance   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior standing; instructor and dean permission required   
Student will conduct in-depth research or reading, initiated by the student
and jointly developed with a faculty member, into a specialized area of
Finance not otherwise covered by department course offerings.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate in-depth understanding of a
specialized area or topic in ﬁnance
FINC 396   Speaker Series: Risk Management and Insurance   (0 Credit
Hours)   
Professional speaker series for all students majoring in Finance.
Outcomes:
Students will beneﬁt from hearing professionals in the ﬁnance industry
discuss current events, opportunities and challenges within the industry
FINC 399   Special Topics in Finance   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior standing   
Scheduled classes are offered on an ad hoc basis. Speciﬁc titles,
prerequisites and content will vary.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of specia lized
topics not otherwise covered by department regular course offeringsHuman Resources & Employment
Relations (HRER)
HRER 201   Principles of HR Management   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides an overview of the various functional areas within
the ﬁeld of human resource management for those who will be working
in general management positions as well as in the human resources
function. Topics will follow a logical sequence beginning with pre-
employment planning and continuing through organizational exit.
Speciﬁcally, topics will include forecasting human resource needs,
employee recruitment and selection, training, performance evaluation,
wage and salary administration, collective bargaining, legal constraints
on personnel practices and organizational exit.
Course equivalencies:  HRER 301/HRER 375   
Outcomes:
Students will examine the importance of contemporary Human
Resources Management; Students will be able to select compensation
strategies to support organizational goals
HRER 311   Employment Relations   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior Standing   
This course provides an introduction to employee relations, and how
companies, labor unions, human resources professionals and the law
shape the contemporary relationship between employees and their
employers in the United States.
Course equivalencies:  MGMT311/HRER311   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate how management representatives, unions, and
government dynamically interact to provide employees voice, balance
group interests and power, and resolve workplace conflict
HRER 313   Compensation Management   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior standing; C- or better in ISSCM 241 or ISSCM 241H
or STAT 103; and C- or better in HRER 301   
This course examines reward policies, programs and practices over such
matters as base-pay, employee beneﬁts and incentive in private and
public organizations.
Course equivalencies:  MGMT313/HRER313   
Outcomes:
Students will learn how to design and implement reward programs
that will give their employers a competitive advantage; to resolve
compensation problems from both a human resource professional and
managerial perspective; and to negotiate fair pay packages with their
employers; Students will improve their team leadership, analytical and
writing skills
HRER 317   Human Resource Stafﬁng   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior Standing, "C-" or better in HRER 301   
This course covers topics related to organizational stafﬁng, including
job analysis, forecasting, use of biographical information, interviewing,
statistical analysis, performance evaluation and legal issues related to
selection.
Course equivalencies:  MGMT317/HRER317   
Outcomes:
Students will acquire the knowledge and skills necessary for the
development, implementation and evaluation of a stafﬁng system

--- Page 718 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 749
HRER 322   Human Resource Development   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior Standing, "C-" or better in HRER 301   
This course examines how organizations develop employees with the
technical, interpersonal and leadership skills to be effective in their jobs.
The course will incorporate training, development, and performance
management topics.
Outcomes:
Students will learn how to conduct a training needs assessment,
set learning objectives, establish evaluation criteria, select the best
instructional methods, conduct a training program and evaluate the
impact of the program on the learner and organization; Students will also
improve their presentation, team leadership, analytical and writing skills
HRER 325   Global Employment Relations   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior Standing, C- or better in HRER 301   
This course has two basic objectives: to familiarize students with
different employment relations systems in advanced industrial
economies in North America, Europe, and Asia; and to introduce students
to labor problems associated with a global economy (e.g., sweatshops,
child labor, slavery and other coercive labor systems) and to proposed
approaches to redressing these problems (e.g., transnational institutions
like the ILO, trade agreements, voluntary codes of conduct, labor unions).
Interdisciplinary Option:  International Business   
HRER 329   Global HR and Organizational Behavior   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior standing, C- or better in HRER 301 or MGMT 201   
This course provides an understanding of the critical roles of Human
Resource professionals throughout the strategic globalization process.
The course will also teach one to become aware of cross-cultural
issues that affect organizational dynamics and behaviors central to
management processes, such as stafﬁng, motivation, negotiation,
communication, and leadership.
Interdisciplinary Option:  International Business   
HRER 364   Negotiation and Conflict Management   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior standing; minimum grade of "C-" in MGMT 201   
Negotiation and conflict management are pervasive in the workplace
and in business, occurring between co-workers, managers, vendors, and
parties whenever interests diverge. This class focuses on generating self-
insight through the experience of engaging in negotiation simulations in
each class, and by applying theory of negotiations to class exercises and
personal experience.
Outcomes:
Students will learn fundamental principles and theories of negotiations
and conflict management; Students will apply course materials to
improve problem solving and decision-making; Students will develop
speciﬁc skills and competencies needed by professionals in the ﬁeld of
management
HRER 395   Independent Study in Human Resources and Employment
Relations   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior Standing, C- or better in HRER 301, department
consent required   
No course description is available
HRER 399   Special Topics in Human Resources and Employment
Relations   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior Standing , C- or better in HRER 301   
No course description is availableInternational Business (IBUS)
IBUS 201   Introduction to International Business   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will introduce students to the theory and practice of
international business with a focus on international environments and
activities of multinational enterprises (MNEs). Topics to be included:
cultural, social, legal, trade, and ﬁnancial characteristics in the world
markets. The course will also discuss diverse functional areas of MNEs
across national borders such as international: production, logistics,
ﬁnance, human resource management, and marketing.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  IBUS 201/BSAD 202/BHNR 338   
Outcomes:
Develop students' theoretical and practical insights for understanding
the real world of international business in terms of both external
environmental forces and internal strategic management issues
surrounding multinational enterprises (MNEs) in the world markets
IBUS 201H   Business Management: A Global and Social Perspective   (3
Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Open to students in the Quinlan business honors program
only   
This course provides Honors students with opportunities to learn about
managing international businesses in a sustainable global environment.
The course contents cover the differences in economic, social, and
political environments of countries around the world. The course features
corporate and academic speakers and discussions of various aspects of
international business.
Course equivalencies:  IBUS 201/BSAD 202/BHNR 338   
Outcomes:
An understanding of global economics, management, and sustainable
business of nations and regions in our global economy and social and
ﬁnancial structures under which global businesses are conducted
IBUS 315   International Management   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior Standing, minimum grade of "C-" in MGMT 201   
This course deals with analyzing, formulating, and implementing ﬁrm
strategies that involve an international component and, accordingly,
focuses on the cultural differences, political/economic influences, global
market factors, and other contingencies speciﬁc to the international
marketplace and different host countries/regions that are served by
multinational enterprises (MNEs).
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, International Business   
Course equivalencies:  X-MGMT315/INTS315   
Outcomes:
Students will practice skills for formulating and implementing an
international strategy using case discussions and group projects that
simulate the decision¿making process for international market selection
and entry by MNEs

--- Page 719 ---
750  Quinlan School of Business
IBUS 370   Inernational Business Internship - Engaged Learning   (3-6
Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing, Permission of Instructor   
IBUS 370 is a seminar course that challenges students to analyze the
theory and practices from the world of work that impact the ethics of
leading, interpersonal and organizational dynamics, and competent work
place contributions required for success in the modern business world.
Concepts associated with internship/engaged learning as related to
career development will be addressed. Students are required to work a
minimum of 120 hours over the course of one semester. All internships
must be supervised by professionals and may be paid or unpaid.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
a) Developing a foundation on which a student may build a career; b)
Understanding the role of the Jesuit tradition as it relates to leadership
and service
IBUS 399   Special Topics in International Business   (3 Credit Hours)   
Special Topics are classes offered on an ad hoc basis. Speciﬁc titles,
prerequisites and content will vary.
Information Systems (INFS)
INFS 247   Business Information Systems   (3 Credit Hours)   
Focuses on using information technology to support business processes.
The purpose and composition of information systems, the utilization
of technology and hands-on experience in developing microcomputer
business applications with productivity tools (Microsoft Excel and
Access).
Course equivalencies:  INFS247/ISOM/MGSC247/ACINF247   
Outcomes:
Understanding of using information technology to support business
processes, and of developing business spreadsheet and database
applications
INFS 247H   Business Information Systems - Honors   (3 Credit Hours)   
Focuses on using information technology to support business processes.
The purpose and composition of information systems, the utilization
of technology and hands-on experience in developing microcomputer
business applications with productivity tools (Microsoft Excel and
Access). Restricted to SBA honors students.
Course equivalencies:  INFS247/ISOM/MGSC247/ACINF247   
Outcomes:
Understanding of using information technology to support business
processes, and of developing business spreadsheet and database
applications
INFS 336   Global Perspectives on Digital Business   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Minimum grade of "C-" in INFS 247   
This course will present topics related to managing information
systems projects and digital business from a global perspective.
Project management issues such as analyzing stakeholders, deﬁning
expectations, deﬁning project deliverables, analyzing scope, collecting
requirements, developing schedules, and mitigating risk, will be covered.
Also, variety of digital business issues, such as digital business models,
disruptive forces, and digital strategies will be covered from a global
perspective.
Outcomes:
Understanding of concepts and steps related management of digital
business project in a global environment; Understanding of general and
global digital business concepts and issuesINFS 343   Business Analytics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing; C- or better in (ISSCM 241 or
ISSCM 241H or STAT 103), (INFS 247 or INFS 247H), and one of the
following: MATH 110, MATH 118, MATH 130, MATH 131, or MATH 161   
This course covers basic principles in data modelling, and turning big
data into intelligent actionable insights. Through the use of real business
case studies and lab sessions students will develop a comprehensive,
innovative and practical approach to data analytics that enables them to
solve diverse and complex business problems.
Course equivalencies:  BSAD343/BSAD343H   
Outcomes:
Explain core design concepts, appraise various technological solutions,
determine proper analytics methods, integrate data visualization, and
make a compelling presentation of a novel use case depicting current
market trends
INFS 343H   Business Analytics - Honors   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Open to students in the Quinlan Honors Program   
This course covers basic principles in data modeling, and turning big
data into intelligent actionable insights. Through the use of real business
case studies and lab sessions students will develop a comprehensive,
innovative and practical approach to data analytics that enables them
to solve diverse and complex business problems. Requires C- or better
in ISSCM 241H or ISSCM 241 or STAT 103, INFS 247 or INFS 247H, and
one of the following: MATH 110, MATH 118, MATH 130, MATH 131, or
MATH 161.
Course equivalencies:  BSAD343/BSAD343H   
Outcomes:
Explain core design concepts, appraise various technological solutions,
determine proper analytics methods, integrate data visualization, and
make a compelling presentation of a novel use case depicting current
market trends
INFS 346   Database & Data Warehousing Systems   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore Standing, minimum grade of "C-" in INFS/
ISSCM 247   
Covers current concepts in database theory and use. The course
teaches design, implementation, and utilization of relational database
management systems by covering the processes, tools, and
methodologies such as business requirement collection, ER modeling,
relational modeling, normalization, SQL, and MS Access.
Course equivalencies:  ISOM346 / MGSC346   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of how to ef fectively
develop and use business database system
INFS 347   Systems Analysis & Design   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore Standing, minimum grade of "C-" in INFS 247   
This course studies methods for analyzing, developing and implementing
business information systems. Stages of the systems development life
cycle are explored in depth. Tools and techniques for structured and
object-oriented analysis and design are discussed.
Outcomes:
Understanding of the development and implementation of business
information systems

--- Page 720 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 751
INFS 348   Advanced Data Analytics and AI   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Minimum grade of C- in INFS 346 and INFS 343   
This course focuses on extracting insights from complex datasets and
progresses from data mining and R principles to data transformation and
data mining techniques. Using deep learning and large language models,
it addresses challenges in AI analytics, emphasizing ensemble learning
techniques, model evaluation, and the handling of big data.
Course equivalencies:  ISOM348 / MGSC348   
Outcomes:
To be able to effectively use technologies such as Hadoop (Map Reduce)
& R for solving data-dependent business problems of varying levels of
complexity
INFS 360   Data Visualization & Business Intelligence   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Minimum grade of "C-" in INFS 346   
The amount of data that our world generates is growing at a torrid pace.
Sifting through & making sense of these humongous mountains of data
is crucial to ensuring business growth, success and to making scientiﬁc
discoveries & advancements. Data visualization plays an important role in
this process.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to process & visualize large amounts of data in
order to enable efﬁcient & effective analysis using industry standard
software
INFS 362   User Experience (UX) and Biometrics   (3 Credit Hours)   
This experiential and research-focused course explores the newest
developments in the ﬁeld of user experience (UX) & biometrics (e.g.,
collecting and analyzing human behavior data through eye tracking,
galvanic skin response, facial expression, voice, and brain activity) and
introduces various methods used in cutting-edge research laboratories to
study human insight in business contexts. Theoretical UX concepts and
practical skills in biometric data collection and analysis will  be explored
using the latest academic research and hands-on work with biometric
hardware, software, and data. Students will complete and present the
original human subject research project (team-based and with IRB
approval) using biometric trackers and biosensors. The research project
will be documented in the format of a full academic article.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to communicate the value of User Experience in
design; Describe the value of human insights through biometric data;
Critically evaluate biometric data-focused research studies; Design
and implement a biometric data-focused research study; Analyze and
interpret human insights through fundamental biometric data such as
gaze, facial expressions, and galvanic skin response; Develop proﬁciency
in working with leading biometric trackers/biosensors and software
platform; Write a complete empirical academic article using biometric
data
INFS 394   Programming in Python   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior standing and a minimum grade of C- in INFS 346   
This course focuses on how to effectively use the Python computer
programming language to support decision making in business. We
will particularly focus on using Python for manipulating and analyzing
data. In addition to covering the concepts of programming, this course
covers working with external data, debugging code and developing user
interfaces.
Outcomes:
To learn how to develop computer programs in the Python programming
language; To understand the process of debugging code to resolve errors;
To read data from external ﬁles including from an external database using
embedded SQL within Python codeINFS 395   Independent Study in Information Systems   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Independent study is in-depth research or reading, initiated by the student
and jointly developed with a faculty member in a specialized area of
Information Systems not otherwise covered by departmental course
offerings. Variable Credit. May count for Information Systems major or
minor. Permission of Assistant Dean required.
INFS 397   VBA Programming with MS Ofﬁce   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior Standing, minimum grade of "C-" in INFS 346   
This course focuses on how to effectively use Microsoft Ofﬁce's built-
in programming language, Visual Basic for Applications (VBA), to
build models, primarily in Excel. We will cover issues that facilitate
the construction of robust and readily understandable models in the
VBA language. Starting with basic modeling functions, the course will
progress through complex modeling skills. This course assumes that you
are familiar with Basic Excel operations.
Outcomes:
By the end of this course, the student should be able to: build models
using Excel built-in functions, build, customize and store Excel macros,
design and build accurate, robust models with VBA, build custom VBA
procedures, and create user-deﬁned ﬁnancial functions in VBA
INFS 399   Special Topics in Information Systems   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Special topics are scheduled classes offered on an ad hoc basis. Speciﬁc
titles, prerequisites and content will vary.
Information Systems and Supply Chain
Management (ISSCM)
ISSCM 241   Business Statistics   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the steps and procedures required to solve
problems in science, social science, and business where data are useful
- from the deﬁnition of the managerial problems to the use of statistical
analysis to address these problems.
Knowledge Area:  Quantitative Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  ISSCM/H/241/STAT103/ACST101/03   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of statistical thinking
and data analysis technique for decision-making purposes
ISSCM 241H   Business Statistics - Honors   (3 Credit Hours)   
Restricted to SBA honors students. This course examines the steps and
procedures required to solve problems in science, social science, and
business where data are useful - from the deﬁnition of the managerial
problems to the use of statistical analysis to address these problems.
Course equivalencies:  ISSCM/H/241/STAT103/ACST101/03   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of statistical thinking
and data analysis technique for decision-making purposes
ISSCM 349   Project Management   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior Standing; Grade of C- or higher in ACCT 201 &
MGMT 201   
The art and science of project management as applied to business,
industrial, and public projects. Covers: the project life cycle; project
teambuilding; techniques for planning, scheduling and controlling
projects; project organizations; project leadership and stakeholders.
Course equivalencies:  ISOM 349/ISOM 357/MGSC 349   
Outcomes:
Understanding of the broader role of the project manager with regard to
all project stakeholders, and of methods and steps for initiating, deﬁning,
and executing projects

--- Page 721 ---
752  Quinlan School of Business
ISSCM 393   Requirements Analysis and Communication   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior Standing, minimum grade of "C-" or better in ISSCM
247  
This course focuses on Information Systems requirements and related
communication skills. Students will learn how to gather requirements
for Information Systems from an organization's users and executives
based on a general understanding of organizations and business goals.
Students learn techniques of how to translate between organizational
needs and requirements for systems and processes, and how to analyze,
validate, and prioritize those requirements. A special focus of the course
will be to improve business communication skills such as interviewing,
listening, presenting and negotiating.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  ISOM393 / MGSC393   
ISSCM 395   Independent Study in ISSCM   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior Standing, Instructor and Dean permission   
Independent study is in-depth research or reading, initiated by the student
and jointly developed with a faculty member, into a specialized area
of information Systems and Operations Management not otherwise
covered by department course offerings. Variable credit. This course
is for students who major in either Information Systems or Operations
Management. Will count toward major requirements. Permission of
Assistant Dean required.
ISSCM 399   Special Topics in ISSCM   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior Standing   
Special Topics are scheduled classes offered on an ad hoc basis. Speciﬁc
titles, prerequisites and content will vary.
Course equivalencies:  ISOM399 / MGSC399   
Legal Environment of Business (LREB)
LREB 315   Law and the Regulatory Environment of Business I   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior standing   
This course is designed to familiarize the student with the American legal
system. Intended primarily for students who have not previously studied
law, the course includes a review of the concept of law, the function of the
courts, and the dual judicial system of the United States. An appreciation
of legal history and the operation of law are developed through the
vehicle of a detailed analysis of contract law and a survey of other topical
headings.
Course equivalencies:  LREB315/315H   
Outcomes:
The students should achieve an awareness of the necessity of voluntary
compliance with general legal concepts in order for society to enable
all persons to live together in harmony; An understanding of the court
system as a substitute for self-help is deemed essential and knowledge
of binding contract law is fostered as a basis for all agreementsLREB 315H   Law and the Regulatory Environment of Business I -
Honors   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior standing; restricted to SBA honors students   
This course is designed to familiarize the student with the American legal
system. Intended primarily for students who have not previously studied
law, the course includes a review of the concept of law, the function of the
courts, and the dual judicial system of the United States. An appreciation
of legal history and the operation of law are developed through the
vehicle of a detailed analysis of contract law and a survey of other topical
headings.
Course equivalencies:  LREB315/315H   
Outcomes:
The students should achieve an awareness of the necessity of voluntary
compliance with general legal concepts in order for society to enable
all persons to live together in harmony; An understanding of the court
system as a substitute for self-help is deemed essential and knowledge
of binding contract law is fostered as a basis for all agreements
Marketing (MARK)
MARK 201   Principles of Marketing   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing   
This course develops an understanding of the marketing systems by
which organizations plan, price, promote and distribute products and
services to selected target markets.
Course equivalencies:  MARK201/201H/301/CPST340   
Outcomes:
Students analyze market conditions and apply the basic tools to develop
marketing strategies to successfully meet the customers' needs resulting
in a viable, proﬁtable organization
MARK 201H   Principles of Marketing - Honors   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing or above; Restricted to SBA honors
students   
This course develops an understanding of the marketing systems by
which organizations plan, price, promote and distribute products and
services to selected target markets.
Course equivalencies:  MARK201/201H/301/CPST340   
Outcomes:
Students analyze market conditions and apply the basic tools to develop
marketing strategies to successfully meet the customers' needs resulting
in a viable, proﬁtable organization
MARK 310   Consumer Behavior   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior standing, minimum grade of "C-" in MARK 201   
This course develops an understanding of how consumers behave before,
during and after the consumption process through a discussion of
cultural, social and perceptual factors.
Outcomes:
Students evaluate consumer behavior and apply their understanding in
the creation of a marketing plan designed to improve the brand equity of
a ﬁrm

--- Page 722 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 753
MARK 311   Marketing Research   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior standing, minimum grade of "C-" in MARK 310 and
(ISSCM 241 or ISSCM 241H or STAT 103)   
This course develops an understanding of the research process from
problem formulation through research report preparation. Both qualitative
and quantitative research methodologies are discussed. The focus is on
using research results in marketing decision making. Empirical data are
analyzed using state of the art analytical tools.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students identify managerial problems, research objectives, design
data collection instruments, and sampling procedures; Data collection
and analysis is discussed; Cases, exercises and/or a written research
proposal or report is a primary outcome of the course
MARK 312   Gender and Marketing   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior standing; Minimum grade of "C-" in MARK 201   
How do the 4Ps of Marketing, product, price, place, and promotion,
influence gender, and how does gender influence the 4Ps? Students will
learn how to address the relationship between Gender and Marketing.
Example topics may include, but are not limited to, Masculinity, Media,
and Marketing, Women, Media, and Marketing, and Millennials, Gender
and Marketing.
Outcomes:
Understand how marketing strategy reflects and shapes socio-cultural
norms so that you can build strategies that reflect and shape those
norms; Learn how research on social trends is conducted and how it is
used in strategy, so that you can perform such research in marketing
contexts
MARK 320   Marketing for Environmental Sustainability   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MARK 201 and Junior Standing   
The course shows students how to use marketing to address the
complexities of sustainability including: climate change, poverty, food
shortages, oil depletion and species extinction. Design-for-environment,
full-cost pricing, greening the channels of distribution and life-cycle
impact are some of the concepts covered in this course.
Outcomes:
Provide students with the knowledge and skills needed to develop
marketing products that contribute to environmental sustainability
MARK 321   Ignatian Design Thinking   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Minimum grade of C- in MARK 201 and Junior standing   
This course will provide an in-depth look into the role design thinking
plays in our Ignatian tradition for servant leadership. Through human-
centered design practices, we will explore our Ignatian imagination to
seek and solve for our world's grandest challenges.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
An understanding in the scope and application of human-centered design
as a Mindset and a Method
MARK 323   Personal Selling   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior standing, minimum grade of "C-" in MARK 201   
This course develops an understanding of the role of personal selling
and sales force management, which are extremely critical in business-to-
business marketing strategies, and the ethical and legal responsibilities
of sales managers.
Outcomes:
Students develop skills in sales force organization and sales techniques
as well as in the recruiting, selecting, training, motivating, compensating
and evaluating sales peopleMARK 334   Services Marketing   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior standing and minimum grade of C- in MARK 201   
Service organizations (e.g. banks, transportation companies, hotels,
hospitals, educational institutions, & professional services) require
a distinctive approach to marketing strategy in both development
and execution. Also, the course focuses on the role of service in
manufacturing businesses. The course will cover why people are
essential to service success. Differentiate between product & service
characteristics; understand, analyze, develop, modify employee behavior
in a service environment, identify critical issues to service design,
understand importance of facility location.
MARK 360   Retailing Management   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior standing, minimum grade of "C-" in MARK 201   
This course develops an understanding of retailing and the role that
retailing plays in the marketing system and in marketing strategies.
Outcomes:
Students analyze and develop retail strategies that ﬁt and support overall
marketing strategies
MARK 363   International Marketing   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior standing, minimum grade of "C-" in MARK 201   
This course develops an understanding of how marketing strategies are
developed in the global environment.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies, International Business   
Course equivalencies:  X-MARK363/INTS363   
Outcomes:
Students evaluate cultural, governmental, economic and competitive
conditions to illustrate how these factors impact an organization's
marketing strategy; Attention is paid to the positive and negative
consequences of globalization
MARK 367   Multicultural Marketing   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior Standing, minimum grade of "C-" in MARK 201   
In this course, we address (1) past and current knowledge on
multicultural marketing, (2) important challenges with respect to
marketplace diversity and inclusion, and (3) what approaches can be
used to construct better marketing plans and tactics.
Outcomes:
Students should have a working knowledge of the principal theories
and research ﬁndings in multicultural marketing and should be able to
integrate and apply this knowledge with respect to effective strategies for
marketplace diversity and inclusion
MARK 370   Political Marketing   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior standing, minimum grade of "C-" in MARK 201   
No course description is available
MARK 373   Integrated Marketing Communications   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior standing, minimum grade of "C-" in MARK 201   
This course develops an understanding of advertising strategy and
advertising campaigns, including the external environment, how agencies
are structured and how consumer metrics are integrated.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students develop skills in managing the integration of media, strategy
and creative design in developing sound advertising campaigns

--- Page 723 ---
754  Quinlan School of Business
MARK 380   Digital Marketing   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior standing, minimum grade of "C-" in MARK 201   
Emphases is on strategies and tactics for creating, retaining, and
enhancing customer relationships via the World Wide Web, and on
integrating the digital environment into the marketing mix. In addition to
learning fundamental principles of the digital channel, students will apply
the learned principles of the digital channel in a class project. Readings,
lectures, and industry professionals may be used to provide insights and
relevance to this area of marketing.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze and assess online marketing platforms
and develop an integrated digital marketing plan
MARK 390   Marketing Strategies   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Senior standing, minimum grade of "C-" in MARK 310,
(FINC 301 or FINC 334 or FINC 334H), (SCMG 332 or SCMG 332H
or SCMG 232 or SCMG 232H), and prior or concurrent enrollment in
MARK 311   
This capstone course develops an understanding of all marketing
decisions involved in planning marketing strategies.
Course equivalencies:  MARK390 / MARK324   
Outcomes:
Students develop a comprehensive marketing plan by applying skills
in ﬁnancial analysis, competitive scanning, and appropriate marketing
strategies
MARK 395   Independent Study   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior standing; Instructor and Dean permission   
Independent Study is an in-depth research or reading, initiated by the
student and jointly developed with a faculty member, into a specialized
area of marketing not otherwise covered by the department course
offerings.
Outcomes:
Varies with topic
MARK 399   Special Topics in Marketing   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior standing   
Special Topics are scheduled classes offered on an ad hoc basis. Speciﬁc
titles and content will vary.
Outcomes:
Varies with topic
Management (MGMT)
MGMT 201   Managing People and Organizations   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing   
This course introduces students to the dynamics of human behavior in
the workplace through the study of topics such as attitudes, personality,
values, ethics, and leadership. The course also examines topics at the
group and organizational levels including culture, structure, change,
decision making, power and politics, as well as team development.
Course equivalencies:  MGMT201/201H/MGMT 301/CPST 350   
Outcomes:
Learn and apply organizational behavior concepts and theories to analyze
how individuals work in teams/groups within organizations to achieve
goalsMGMT 201H   Managing People and Organizations - Honors   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing or above; Restricted to QSB honors
students   
This course introduces students to the dynamics of human behavior in
the workplace through the study of topics such as attitudes, personality,
values, ethics, and leadership. The course also examines topics at the
group and organizational levels including culture, structure, change,
decision making, power and politics, as well as team development.
Restricted to QSB honors students.
Course equivalencies:  MGMT201/201H/MGMT 301/CPST 350   
Outcomes:
Learn and apply organizational behavior concepts and theories to analyze
how individuals work in teams/groups within organizations to achieve
goals
MGMT 304   Strategic Management   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Senior Standing; C- in MGMT 201, MARK 201, (SCMG 332
or SCMG 332H or SCMG 232 or SCMG 232H), and (FINC 301 or
FINC 334)   
This capstone course analyzes the responsibilities of general
management in formulating and implementing business¿level and
corporate¿level strategies. Strategic management addresses the
strategic positioning, organizational structure, resources and capabilities
of the organization to generate and sustain competitive advantage. The
course applies strategic analysis principles to integrate all t he BBA core
courses.
Course equivalencies:  MGMT304/304H   
Outcomes:
Students will develop executive and general management skills through
an understanding of how the various functions of an organization operate
as a whole; Students will also build their skills in conducting strategic
analyses in a variety of industries and competitive situations and gain
a stronger understanding of the competitive challenges of the market
environment
MGMT 304H   Strategic Management - Honors   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Senior standing; minimum grade of "C-" in MGMT 201
or MGMT 201H, MARK 201 or MARK 201H, SCMG 332 or SCMG 332H
or SCMG 232 or SCMG 232H, and FINC 301 or FINC 334 or FINC 334H;
restricted to SBA honors students   
This capstone course analyzes the responsibilities of general
management in formulating and implementing business¿level and
corporate¿level strategies. Strategic management addresses the
strategic positioning, organizational structure, resources and capabilities
of the organization to generate and sustain competitive advantage. The
course applies strategic analysis principles to integrate all t he BBA core
courses.
Course equivalencies:  MGMT304/304H   
Outcomes:
Students will develop executive and general management skills through
an understanding of how the various functions of an organization operate
as a whole; Students will also build their skills in conducting strategic
analyses in a variety of industries and competitive situations and gain
a stronger understanding of the competitive challenges of the market
environment

--- Page 724 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 755
MGMT 318   Organizational Development and Change   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior Standing, minimum grade of "C-" in MGMT 201 or
HSM 368   
This course examines the theory and practice of organizational
development and change, with an emphasis on effective change
management.
Outcomes:
Students will understand the complexity of change in organizations
and learn how to use change interventions to manage different types of
organizational changes, including the redesign of jobs and restructuring
MGMT 320   Leading and Managing Teams   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior Standing, minimum grade of "C-" in MGMT 201   
This course examines the characteristics of effective teams and team
players in an organizational context and covers theories and concepts of
team composition, roles and leadership, decision making, team charters,
conflict management, team networks and international teams.
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of team processes and team
performance in organizations, learn tools that make teams effective,
develop team skills and practice creating, monitoring and improving an
ongoing team effort
MGMT 321   International Business Ethics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing; minimum grade of C- in MGMT 201
and ECON 202   
No course description is available
Course equivalencies:  PHIL185/283/MGMT341/H/BHNR341   
MGMT 331   Managing Nonproﬁt Organizations   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre- or co-requisites:  MGMT 201   
Students will learn the knowledge, skills, and values for managing
nonproﬁt organizations. We will examine how non-proﬁts develop their
mission, strategic plan, and program model, as well as how they fund
their efforts and continuously improve their performance. Students
will apply their knowledge through case study explorations of different
Chicagoland non-proﬁts. Students will demonstrate an understanding
of the evolving non-proﬁt sector; students will demonstrate an analytic
ability to assess non-proﬁt strategy; students will understand the
management skills needed at high-performing non-proﬁts
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
MGMT 335   Micro-Enterprise Consulting   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior Standing, minimum grade of "C-" in MGMT 201;
Instructor permission   
In the Jesuit tradition of using knowledge to serve humanity, students
utilize and improve their business knowledge and skills by meeting the
real-life business consulting needs of individual entrepreneurial and not-
for-proﬁt clients starting up or operating businesses in economically
distressed communities.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students improve skills in service-oriented communication, project
management, teamwork, and cross-functional business analysis; and
learn how locally-owned business can foster community economic
development; Consulting clients receive a feasibility analysis or business
plan to help guide business operations and obtain ﬁnancing for a new or
struggling businessMGMT 345   Ethics, Economics & Entrepreneurship   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior Standing, 'C-' or better in MGMT 201   
The entrepreneur has been reviled as a social parasite and cheered
as a moral hero. Through an examination of some classic works on
entrepreneurship and the writings of our guest speakers, in Ethics,
Economics, and Entrepreneurship we will take up three main questions:
Who is the entrepreneur - that is, what activities or characteristics make
one an entrepreneur?; Why did the entrepreneur largely disappear from
intellectual discourse in the middle 20th century?; How ought we to
evaluate the entrepreneur morally - and does the answer depend upon
who we understand the entrepreneur to be?
MGMT 360   Values-Based Leadership   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior Standing, minimum grade of "C-" in MGMT 201   
An examination of several major approaches to leadership that are based
on personal and organizational values.
Course equivalencies:  MGMT360/360H   
Outcomes:
Students will understand major approaches to leadership, examine their
own values and approach to leadership and improve their leadership
skills
MGMT 377   Family Business Management   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Grade of C- or better in MGMT 201   
This course examines family, ownership and management challenges
in operating a family business, including governance and leadership
succession. It is designed for students pursuing a career in family
business or providing service to one. It will use a systems model of family
and business to demonstrate connections among key stakeholders.
Outcomes:
Students will understand the goals, characteristics, social and economic
impact, and dynamics of family businesses; They will know how to
integrate entrepreneurial/management concepts and available resources
to strengthen business performance
MGMT 395   Independent Study in Management   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior standing; Instructor and Dean permission   
No course description is available
MGMT 399   Special Topics in Management   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior standing   
No course description is available
Quinlan Business (QUIN)
QUIN 101   Business Learning and Careers   (0 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Quinlan School of Business undergraduates only   
This course provides an overview of business majors at Quinlan and
related career outcomes for graduates in each major.
Outcomes:
Students will understand the different attributes of Quinlan majors,
variation in skill development and focus, and pathways for career success
QUIN 102   Financial Literacy and Well-Being   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  Quinlan School of Business undergraduates only   
Students develop a comprehensive understanding of ﬁnancial literacy by
learning practical knowledge and tactics for successful personal ﬁnancial
management. This course makes direct connections between ﬁnancial
literacy and ﬁnancial well-being.
Outcomes:
Students will understand personal ﬁnance terminology and resources,
know how to choose ﬁnancial instruments, comprehend basic economic
function and policies, and be able to make ethical ﬁnancial decisions and
set goals

--- Page 725 ---
756  Quinlan School of Business
QUIN 202   Career Preparation   (2 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing, Quinlan School of Business student   
Career Preparation provides an introduction to the critical skills required
for successful career development and job search navigation. Students
will learn about career development; develop job/internship search
skills; establish a job/internship search action plan and begin to become
oriented to employer research. Topics addressed will include resume/job
search correspondence; interviewing skills; network building; career &
employer research and career development resource building.
Course equivalencies:  QUIN 202 / QUIN 202H   
Outcomes:
Develop skills that can be used for career and life planning both now
and in the future, including resume & cover letter writing, interviewing,
salary negotiation, maintaining a professional online presence, plus
effective communication skills through class discussions and individual
presentations, and personal responsibility
QUIN 202H   Career Preparation - Honors   (2 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Quinlan Business Honors Student   
Career Preparation provides an introduction to the critical skills required
for successful career development and job search navigation. Students
will learn about career development; develop job/internship search
skills; establish a job/internship search action plan and begin to become
oriented to employer research. Topics addressed will include resume/job
search correspondence; interviewing skills; network building; career &
employer research and career development resource building.
Course equivalencies:  QUIN 202 / QUIN 202H   
Outcomes:
Develop skills that can be used for career and life planning both now
and in the future, including resume & cover letter writing, interviewing,
salary negotiation, maintaining a professional online presence, plus
effective communication skills through class discussions and individual
presentations, and personal responsibility
QUIN 300   Business Internship - Elective Credit   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing, Quinlan School of Business student   
This course provides general elective credit for an approved internship,
with credit based on hours worked for the term (1cr for 56-84 hours, 2cr
for 85-119 hours, 3cr for 120+ hours). Internships must be approved
by the instructor in advance, no later than last date of late/change
registration.
QUIN 351   Business Internship-Engaged Learning   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior standing, School of Business student, & "C-" or
better in QUIN 202 or BSAD 220   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement and connects
an internship with academic learning and reflection. Topics include goal-
setting, navigating the workplace, and career planning. Internships must
be approved by instructor by the last date of late/change registration
(required: work 120+ hours during term enrolled, submit name of
supervisor). Students must be working in an internship during the term of
enrollment into QUIN 351.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   QUIN 390   Capstone in Business of Applied Artiﬁcial Intelligence   (3
Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ACCT 331   
This immersive, hands-on course focuses on solving a real-world
business problem in collaboration with a sponsoring ﬁrm. Students
will work through all phases of an AI project lifecycle: deﬁning the
business problem, analyzing data, developing KPIs, preparing large
data sets, building and reﬁning AI models, and delivering actionable
recommendations. The project emphasizes consultative team-based
work, critical thinking, stakeholder management, and professional
communication skills. Students will learn how to translate business
objectives into technical solutions, leverage syndicated and government
data, and apply best practices in AI model development and deployment.
Students will present to the sponsoring ﬁrm at key milestones,
culminating in a ﬁnal presentation and required course deliverables
including a detailed project description, model notebooks and related
documentation, and a user guide.
Outcomes:
Translate business challenges into AI solutions; Acquire, clean, and
integrate large and diverse data sets; Evaluate and select appropriate
analytical and modeling techniques; Develop, validate, and reﬁne AI
models; Communicate ﬁndings effectively to technical and non-technical
stakeholders; Understand and address ethical, legal, and societal issues
in AI implementation
QUIN 399   Special Topics   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will cover a variety of special topics in Economics.
Supply Chain Management (SCMG)
SCMG 232   Introduction to Supply Chain Management   (3 Credit Hours)   
Introduction to the concept of supply chain management, including
a broad overview of main functional roles such as procurement,
transportation, and inventory. Introduction to best practice methods
for planning and managing supply chains, including how to do so
efﬁciently, ethically, and sustainably. Methods include analytics and lean
management.
Course equivalencies:  SCMG332/332H/SCMG232/232H   
Outcomes:
Understanding of fundamental activities in supply chain management,
methodologies to support those activities, and how they impact a ﬁrm
both in terms of its proﬁt and its impact on society and the planet
SCMG 232H   Introduction to Supply Chain Management-Honors   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Introduction to the concept of supply chain management, including
a broad overview of main functional roles such as procurement,
transportation, and inventory. Introduction to best practice methods
for planning and managing supply chains, including how to do so
efﬁciently, ethically, and sustainably. Methods include analytics and lean
management.
Course equivalencies:  SCMG332/332H/SCMG232/232H   
Outcomes:
Understanding of fundamental activities in supply chain management,
methodologies to support those activities, and how they impact a ﬁrm
both in terms of its proﬁt and its impact on society and the planet

--- Page 726 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 757
SCMG 332   Operations Management   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing and minimum grade "C-" ISSCM 241   
Introduction to concepts and methods for managing production and
service operations. Topics include demand forecasting, aggregate and
capacity planning, inventory management, facility layout and location,
just-in-time, managing quality, project planning, resource allocation, and
logistics.
Course equivalencies:  SCMG332/332H/SCMG232/232H   
Outcomes:
Understanding of basic issues and role of operations management
in organizations, and of tools for problem-solving in operations
management
SCMG 332H   Operations Management - Honors   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore Standing or above; minimum grade of "C-" in
ISSCM 241 or ISSCM 241H; Restricted to SBA Honors Students   
Introduction to concepts and methods for managing production and
service operations. Topics include demand forecasting, aggregate and
capacity planning, inventory management, facility layout and location,
just-in-time, managing quality, project planning, resource allocation, and
logistics.
Course equivalencies:  SCMG332/332H/SCMG232/232H   
Outcomes:
Understanding of basic issues and role of operations management
in organizations, and of tools for problem-solving in operations
management
SCMG 337   Fundamentals of Lean Production   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior Standing, minimum grade of "C-" in SCMG 332 or
SCMG 332H or SCMG 232 or SCMG 232H   
Methods for managing manufacturing and service operations based
upon Toyota Production System. Topics include the principles of
JIT and lean production, pull production, setup reduction, preventive
maintenance, cellular manufacturing, employee empowerment, and
supplier partnerships.
Course equivalencies:  OPMG337 / MGSC337   
Outcomes:
Understanding of concepts and tools for reducing waste and
continuously improving operations based upon Toyota's success-proven
approach
SCMG 338   Global Transportation   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore Standing   
Minimum grade of "C-" in SCMG 332 or SCMG 332H or SCMG 232
or SCMG 232H. This course examines how business partners like
suppliers, manufacturers, distributors, and retailers work together to gain
competitive advantage in moving products and services around the world
to satisfy customers.
Interdisciplinary Option:  International Business   
Course equivalencies:  OPMG338 / MGSC338   
Outcomes:
Understanding best practices like vendor managed inventory and
category management and the application of information technologies
for sharing informationSCMG 340   Global Sourcing   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore Standing; minimum grade of "C-" in SCMG 332
or SCMG 332H or SCMG 232 or SCMG 232H   
An examination of the planning and management of global supply chain
operations. Emphasis placed on the areas of sourcing and procurement.
Each area analyzed in terms of key goals, operational processes,
technology applications and performance control mechanisms.
Outcomes:
Develop critical thinking skills concerning the supply and sourcing
function; Focus on strategic issues that face a sourcing organization
SCMG 341   Quality Management & Continuing Improvement   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior Standing, minimum grade of "C-" in SCMG 332 or
SCMG 332H or SCMG 232 or SCMG 232H   
This course examines various philosophies, methods, and tools for
quality management and continuous improvement of products, services,
and processes. Topics include total quality, quality costs and measures,
quality of design, quality awards and standards, statistical process
control, Six Sigma and problem-solving techniques.
Course equivalencies:  ISOM341 / MGSC341   
Outcomes:
Basic understanding of total quality, quality costs, measures, statistical
process control, Six Sigma, process improvement, and problem-solving
techniques
SCMG 342   Supply Chain Modeling   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior Standing, minimum grade of "C-" in SCMG 332 or
SCMG 332H or SCMG 232 or SCMG 232H   
This course studies various analytical methods and tools for making
decisions that will lead to cost effective products, services and
processes. Topics include developing decision-making optimization
models and implementing those models in Excel. The course will
highlight models used in supply chain management; including facility
location, transportation network design and vehicle routing.
Outcomes:
Basic understanding of optimization modeling, implementing
optimization models in Excel and problem-solving techniques
SCMG 346   Sustainable Supply Chain   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior Standing, minimum grade of "C-" in SCMG 332 or
SCMG 332H or SCMG 232 or SCMG 232H   
Sustainability has emerged as a central issue in today's business world.
Environmental issues such as global warming, increasing waste and
pollution, depleting natural resources combined with societal issues
such as health, safety, equality and development put an unprecedented
pressure on companies to realign their businesses while remaining
proﬁtable and competitive.
Outcomes:
The course consists of three main modules: Eco-Efﬁciency; Eco-
Effectiveness; and Sustainable Supply Chain
SCMG 383   Management of Service Operations   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior Standing, minimum grade of "C-" in SCMG 332 or
SCMG 332H or SCMG 232 or SCMG 232H   
This course studies the management of service businesses in general,
and how services are delivered to the customer in particular.
Course equivalencies:  ISOM383 / MGSC383   
Outcomes:
Understanding how services differ from manufactured goods, and how
service management requires unique tools for managing customer
expectations while simultaneously delivering services that exceed those
expectations

--- Page 727 ---
758  Accounting (BBA)
SCMG 395   Independent Study in Operations Management   (1-3 Credit
Hours)   
Independent study is in-depth research or reading, initiated by the student
and jointly developed with a faculty member in a specialized area of
Operations Management not otherwise covered by departmental course
offerings. Variable Credit. May count for Operations Management major
or minor. Permission of Assistant Dean required.
SCMG 396   Supply Chain Seminar   (0 Credit Hours)   
Professional speaker series for all students majoring in Supply Chain
Management. Students will beneﬁt from hearing professionals in
the supply chain industry discuss current events, opportunities and
challenges within the industry.
SCMG 399   Special Topics in Operations Management   (1-3 Credit
Hours)   
Special topics are scheduled classes offered on an ad hoc basis. Speciﬁc
titles, prerequisites and content will vary.
Sport Management (SPRT)
SPRT 130   The Business of Sports   (3 Credit Hours)   
An overview of the sport industry intended to increase student
awareness of the structure and operations of sport organizations from a
management and leadership perspective.
SPRT 320   Social Aspects of Sport Management   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior Standing, minimum grade of "C-" in SPRT 130   
This course provides an examination of the role and relevance of sport in
modern American society; impact of sport on society and the influence
which cultural institutions have on sport. Sport related issues and
controversies in contemporary sport as framed from a sociological and
ethical perspective will be discussed.
SPRT 330   Economics of Sport   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior Standing, minimum grade of "C-" in SPRT 130,
ECON 201 and ECON 202   
Using the tools of economic analysis, this course will examine issues
pertaining to professional and amateur sports. It will also address
economic policy of various sport industry segments.
SPRT 335   Fundamentals of Sport Finance   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior standing, minimum grade of "C-" in SPRT 130   
No course description is available
SPRT 339   Sports Facility Management and Operations   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior standing; minimum grade of "C-" in SPRT 130   
This course examines the comprehensive planning for development
and operations of new and existing sport and ﬁtness facilities and the
management of those events.
Course equivalencies:  X-SPRT339/ISOM339   
SPRT 345   Globalization of Sport Industry   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior Standing, minimum grade of "C-" in SPRT 130   
The course provides an analysis of the impact of the globalization of
sport in relation to the organization and management of international
sport, including the Olympic movement and the examination of U.S.
professional sports. A comprehensive investigation of international
governance, political, social, and economic issues which leagues and
corporations must consider in conducting business in foreign markets.
Interdisciplinary Option:  International Business   SPRT 365   Fundamentals Sport Marketing   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior Standing, minimum grade of "C-" in SPRT 130 and
MARK 201   
This course focuses on the application of marketing principles and
practices to the sport industry. Consideration given to marketing sport
both as a spectator and a participant.
Course equivalencies:  X-SPRT365/MARK365   
SPRT 375   Sport Media   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore Standing, minimum grade of "C-" in SPRT 130   
A course designed to expose students to sports media in the digital age.
The course covers topics in journalism, broadcasting, and production
and outlines best practices for success in the industry. The course also
analyzes the market forces that control sports media as well as legal and
ethical dilemmas in the ﬁeld.
SPRT 380   Legal Aspects in Sport Management   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior Standing, minimum grade of "C-" in SPRT 130   
An examination of legal issues which arise in the sport industry, including
both amateur and professional sports with a strong emphasis on ethical
concerns.
SPRT 385   Sport Analytics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior standing, C- or better in SPRT 130 and BSAD 343   
This course examines the collection and analysis of data to enhance
decision making within sport. The course reviews analytic usage across
different sport management segments such as ﬁnance, marketing, sales
and logistics. Additionally, data and analytics within sport performance,
wearable technology, coaching and player management are investigated.
Outcomes:
Obtain introductory knowledge and technical competence using
statistical and analytical software; Determine and perform appropriate
statistical analysis to think critically; reason, analyze and problem solve
sport industry speciﬁc issues
SPRT 395   Independent Study   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
This course will provide independent study opportunity in Sports
Management.
SPRT 399   Special Topics in Sport Management   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior Standing & C- or better in SPRT 130   
No course description is available
Accounting (BBA)
All businesses need skilled accountants to help them determine what
they have to spend and how they should spend it to ensure a successful
future.
You'll be well-prepared for these responsibilities with the Quinlan School
of Business BBA in Accounting degree program. We'll also help you get
ready for the CPA, CMA, CFM, and CIA.
Related Programs
Major
•Accounting and Analytics (BBA)  (p. 760)
Minor
•Accounting Information Systems Minor  (p. 763)
Curriculum
All Quinlan School of Business students must complete the University
Core Curriculum, Business Core Curriculum, and Undergraduate School
of Business program requirements. Students pursuing the BBA degree

--- Page 728 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 759
in Accounting must also complete 24 required hours from the Major
Requirements listed below.
Code Title Hours
Undergraduate Business Program RequirementsCOMM 103Business & Professional Speaking 13
MATH 110 Business Precalculus 3
or MATH 118 Precalculus IIETHC 341Ethics in Business3
QUIN 101 Business Learning and Careers 1QUIN 102Financial Literacy and Well-Being1
QUIN 202 Career Preparation 2Writing IntensiveSelect two Writing Intensive courses  26Global AwarenessSelect one of the following:  33Any business course from the International Business Major Group,
or: (p. 759)ANTH 100 Globalization and Local CulturesANTH 102Culture, Society, and DiversityENTR 313 Entrepreneurship - Global Opportunity ScanGLST 101Introduction to Global StudiesPLSC 102 International Relations in an Age of GlobalizationBusiness Core CurriculumACCT 201 Introductory Accounting I 3ACCT 202Introductory Accounting II3
ECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics 3ECON 202Principles of Macroeconomics3
FINC 301 Introductory Business Finance 3
or FINC 334 Principles of Corporate FinanceINFS 247Business Information Systems3
INFS 343 Business Analytics 3
or ECON 346 EconometricsISSCM 241Business Statistics3or STAT 103Fundamentals of Statistics
LREB 315 Law and the Regulatory Environment of Business I 3MARK 201Principles of Marketing3
MGMT 201 Managing People and Organizations 3MGMT 304Strategic Management3
SCMG 232 Introduction to Supply Chain Management 3Major RequirementsACCT 303 Intermediate Accounting I 3ACCT 304Intermediate Accounting II3
ACCT 311 Auditing & Internal Control Systems 3ACCT 317Managerial Accounting3
ACCT 328 Concepts in Taxation 3Select three of the following:9
ACCT 306 Advanced Financial AccountingACCT 307Adv Accounting: Not-For-Proﬁt Entities & Adv
Financial Accounting TopicsACCT 308 Accounting Information SystemsACCT 323Advanced CPA TopicsACCT 326 Fraud InvestigationACCT 341Advanced Studies in TaxationACCT 399Special Topics in Accounting 4Total Hours85
1Accounting majors with prior credit for COMM 101 Public Speaking &
Critical Thinking  must take ENGL 210 Business Writing  to complete this
requirement.
2One must be a Quinlan course or ENGL 210 Business Writing . Writing
Intensive courses must be taken in separate terms.
3A study abroad experience will also satisfy this requirement.
4Only one ACCT 399 Special Topics in Accounting  class is allowed to
count for this major.
A student who is an accounting major may be administratively removed
as an accounting major if the student earns a grade below "C-" in two or
more upper-level accounting classes ( ACCT 303 Intermediate Accounting
I and beyond).
International Business Major Group
Code Title Hours
ACCT 306 Advanced Financial Accounting 3ECON 323International Economics3
ECON 324 International Monetary Relations 3ECON 325Economics of Growth & Development3
FINC 355 International Finance Management 3HRER 329Global HR and Organizational Behavior3
IBUS 201 Introduction to International Business 3IBUS 201HBusiness Management: A Global and Social
Perspective3
IBUS 315 International Management 3INFS 336Global Perspectives on Digital Business3
MARK 363 International Marketing 3SCMG 338Global Supply Chain Management I3
SPRT 345 Globalization of Sport Industry 3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
ECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics 3INFS 247Business Information Systems3
MATH 110 
or MATH 118Business Precalculus 
or Precalculus II3QUIN 101Business Learning and Careers0 Hours9
SpringACCT 201Introductory Accounting I3
ECON 202 Principles of Macroeconomics 3QUIN 102Financial Literacy and Well-Being1 Hours7

--- Page 729 ---
760  Accounting and Analytics (BBA)
Year 2
FallACCT 202Introductory Accounting II3
ACCT 303 Intermediate Accounting I 3ISSCM 241 
or STAT 103Business Statistics 
or Fundamentals of Statistics3QUIN 202Career Preparation2 Hours11
Spring
ACCT 304 Intermediate Accounting II 3ACCT 311Auditing & Internal Control Systems3
MGMT 201 Managing People and Organizations 3SCMG 232Introduction to Supply Chain Management3Business Writing Intensive Course3 Hours15
Year 3
Fall
ACCT 328 Concepts in Taxation 3COMM 103Business & Professional Speaking3
MARK 201 Principles of Marketing 3ACCT Elective3 Hours12
SpringFINC 301Introductory Business Finance3
INFS 343 
or ECON 346Business Analytics 
or Econometrics3ETHC 341Ethics in Business3ACCT Elective3 Hours12
Year 4
Fall
ACCT 317 Managerial Accounting 3LREB 315Law and the Regulatory Environment of
Business I3Writing Intensive Course3 Hours9
Spring
MGMT 304 Strategic Management 3ACCT Elective3Global Awareness3 Hours9 Total Hours84
CPA Exam Requirements
Students taking the CPA examination in Illinois are required to have
earned 120 semester hours of college credit. At least 150 earned credit
hours are required for licensure. The additional credit hours can be
earned at Loyola at either the undergraduate or the graduate-level MSA.
For more information about the CPA examination, visit the Illinois Board
of Examiner's CPA Exam  (https://www.ilboe.org/ ) page.Specialized Requirements
Transfer Students
At the discretion of the Quinlan School of Business, a maximum
of one  transfer course  (https://www.luc.edu/quinlan/academics/
studentresources/undergraduate/transfercredit/ ) taken prior to
matriculating at Loyola University Chicago may be allowed to satisfy
major requirements.
Study Abroad
Students planning to study abroad are encouraged to meet with their
academic advisor early in the planning stage. A student will be permitted
to take up to two approved courses in any Quinlan major or minor (and
including BA Economics majors). All study abroad courses must be
reviewed through the Study Abroad Ofﬁce course approval process.
Important Details
A 2.0 average GPA is required for all attempted business courses. (BA in
Economics students must also earn a 2.0 average GPA for all attempted
Economics courses).
Quinlan students are limited to double dipping once (that is, counting
one course twice) between any major or minor combination, regardless
of what program the major or minor is taken in. Non-Quinlan students
are limited to double dipping twice (that is, counting two courses twice)
between business school minors and/or their respective majors.
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Strategic cost management
•Financial management
•Auditing and business risk
•Legal and regulatory knowledge
Accounting and Analytics (BBA)
The BBA in Accounting and Analytics at the Quinlan School of Business
is a specialized degree program combining accounting skills with an
understanding of broad data sets within a client ﬁrm's operations.
And the combined skills of accounting and analytics are much in
demand. According to an American Institute of Certiﬁed Public
Accountants (AICPA) trends report  (https://us.aicpa.org/content/
dam/aicpa/interestareas/accountingeducation/newsandpublications/
downloadabledocuments/2019-trends-report.pdf ):
“The accounting profession is rapidly evolving. Technological innovations,
especially in data science and analytics, are becoming a more common part
of the profession and are changing the way we do business and whom we hire
to do it."

--- Page 730 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 761
Related Programs
Major
•Accounting (BBA)  (p. 758)
Curriculum
All Quinlan School of Business students must complete the University
Core Curriculum, Business Core Curriculum, and Undergraduate School
of Business program requirements. Students pursuing the BBA degree in
Accounting and Analytics must also complete 24 required hours from the
Major Requirements listed below.
Code Title Hours
Undergraduate Business Program RequirementsCOMM 103Business & Professional Speaking 13
MATH 110 Business Precalculus 3
or MATH 118 Precalculus IIETHC 341Ethics in Business3
QUIN 101 Business Learning and Careers 0QUIN 102Financial Literacy and Well-Being1
QUIN 202 Career Preparation 2Writing IntensiveSelect two Writing Intensive courses  26Global AwarenessSelect one of the following:  33Any business course from the International Business Major Group,
or: (p. 761)ANTH 100 Globalization and Local CulturesANTH 102Culture, Society, and DiversityENTR 313 Entrepreneurship - Global Opportunity ScanGLST 101Introduction to Global StudiesPLSC 102 International Relations in an Age of GlobalizationBusiness Core CurriculumACCT 201 Introductory Accounting I 3ACCT 202Introductory Accounting II3
ECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics 3ECON 202Principles of Macroeconomics3
FINC 301 Introductory Business Finance 3
or FINC 334 Principles of Corporate FinanceINFS 247Business Information Systems3
INFS 343 Business Analytics 3
or ECON 346 EconometricsISSCM 241Business Statistics3or STAT 103Fundamentals of Statistics
LREB 315 Law and the Regulatory Environment of Business I 3MARK 201Principles of Marketing3
MGMT 201 Managing People and Organizations 3MGMT 304Strategic Management3
SCMG 232 Introduction to Supply Chain Management 3Major RequirementsRequired Accounting and Information Systems CoursesACCT 303Intermediate Accounting I3
ACCT 311 Auditing & Internal Control Systems 3ACCT 317Managerial Accounting3ACCT 328 Concepts in Taxation 3INFS 346Database & Data Warehousing Systems3
Analytics ChoiceSelect three of the following:9
INFS 348 Advanced Data AnalyticsINFS 360Data Visualization & Business IntelligenceINFS 394 Programming in PythonSCMG 489Supply Chain Analytics 4INFS 494 Data Mining 4INFS 791Programming for Business Decision Making 4Other Graduate Business Analytics elective courses if approved  4Total Hours84
1Accounting and Analytics majors with prior credit for COMM 101 Public
Speaking & Critical Thinking  who wish to take the CPA exam should
take ENGL 210 Business Writing  for Business Communication credit.
2One must be a Quinlan course or ENGL 210 Business Writing . Writing
Intensive courses must be taken in separate terms.
3A study abroad experience will also satisfy this requirement.
4Graduate business course taken senior year where 2 Quinlan graduate
courses are permitted.
A student who is an accounting and analytics major may be
administratively removed as an accounting and analytics major if the
student earns a grade below "C-" in two or more upper-level accounting
classes ( ACCT 303 Intermediate Accounting I  and beyond).
International Business Major Group
Code Title Hours
ACCT 306 Advanced Financial Accounting 3ECON 323International Economics3
ECON 324 International Monetary Relations 3ECON 325Economics of Growth & Development3
FINC 355 International Finance Management 3HRER 329Global HR and Organizational Behavior3
IBUS 201 Introduction to International Business 3IBUS 201HBusiness Management: A Global and Social
Perspective3
IBUS 315 International Management 3INFS 336Global Perspectives on Digital Business3
MARK 363 International Marketing 3SCMG 338Global Supply Chain Management I3
SPRT 345 Globalization of Sport Industry 3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
ECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics 3INFS 247Business Information Systems3

--- Page 731 ---
762  Accounting and Analytics (BBA)
MATH 110 
or MATH 118Business Precalculus 
or Precalculus II3QUIN 101Business Learning and Careers0 Hours9
SpringACCT 201Introductory Accounting I3
ECON 202 Principles of Macroeconomics 3QUIN 202Career Preparation2 Hours8
Year 2
FallACCT 202Introductory Accounting II3
ACCT 303 Intermediate Accounting I 3ISSCM 241 
or STAT 103Business Statistics 
or Fundamentals of Statistics3QUIN 202Career Preparation2 Hours11
Spring
ACCT 311 Auditing & Internal Control Systems 3INFS 346Database & Data Warehousing Systems3
MGMT 201 Managing People and Organizations 3SCMG 232Introduction to Supply Chain Management3Business Writing Intensive Course3 Hours15
Year 3
Fall
ACCT 328 Concepts in Taxation 3COMM 103Business & Professional Speaking3
MARK 201 Principles of Marketing 3Analytics Choice3 Hours12
SpringFINC 301Introductory Business Finance3
INFS 343 
or ECON 346Business Analytics 
or Econometrics3ETHC 341Ethics in Business3Analytics Choice3 Hours12
Year 4
Fall
ACCT 317 Managerial Accounting 3LREB 315Law and the Regulatory Environment of
Business I3Writing Intensive Course3 Hours9
Spring
MGMT 304 Strategic Management 3Global Awareness3Analytics Choice3 Hours9 Total Hours85CPA Exam Requirements
Students taking the CPA examination in Illinois are required to have
earned 120 semester hours of college credit. At least 150 earned credit
hours are required for licensure. The additional credit hours can be
earned at Loyola at either the undergraduate or the graduate-level MSA.
Accounting and Analytics majors planning to take the CPA exam are
required to take the following, in addition to their Major Requirements:
Code Title Hours
ACCT 304 Intermediate Accounting II 3Select three of the following:9
ACCT 306 Advanced Financial AccountingACCT 307Adv Accounting: Not-For-Proﬁt Entities & Adv
Financial Accounting TopicsACCT 308 Accounting Information Systems and
Sustainability ReportingACCT 323Advanced CPA TopicsACCT 326 Fraud InvestigationACCT 341Advanced Studies in TaxationACCT 399 Special Topics in Accounting
For more information about the CPA examination, visit the  Illinois Board
of Examiner's CPA Exam  (https://www.ilboe.org/ ) page .
Specialized Requirements
Transfer Students
At the discretion of the Quinlan School of Business, a maximum
of one transfer course  (https://www.luc.edu/quinlan/academics/
studentresources/undergraduate/transfercredit/ ) taken prior to
matriculating at Loyola University Chicago may be allowed to satisfy
major requirements.
Study Abroad
Students planning to study abroad are encouraged to meet with their
academic advisor early in the planning stage. A student will be permitted
to take up to two approved courses in any Quinlan major or minor (and
including BA Economics majors). All study abroad courses must be
reviewed through the Study Abroad Ofﬁce course approval process.
Important Details
A 2.0 average GPA is required for all attempted business courses. (BA in
Economics students must also earn a 2.0 average GPA for all attempted
Economics courses).
Quinlan students are limited to double dipping once (that is, counting
one course twice) between any major or minor combination, regardless
of what program the major or minor is taken in. Non-Quinlan students
are limited to double dipping twice (that is, counting two courses twice)
between business school minors and/or their respective majors.
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.

--- Page 732 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 763
Learning Outcomes
•Managerial accounting
•Taxation concepts
•Database &amp; data systems
•Data analytics
•Business intelligence
•CPA exam preparation
Accounting Information Systems
Minor
Quinlan students who are pursuing other majors but who wish to expand
their skills in accounting may pursue a minor in accounting information
systems.
Related Programs
Major
•Accounting (BBA)  (p. 758)
•Accounting and Analytics (BBA)  (p. 760)
Combined
•Accounting (BBA/MSA)  (p. 959)
Curriculum
The requirements are 15 credit hours in the following courses:
Code Title Hours
ACCT 303 Intermediate Accounting I 3ACCT 308Accounting Information Systems3
ACCT 317 Managerial Accounting 3INFS 346Database & Data Warehousing Systems3
INFS 347 Systems Analysis & Design 3or ISSCM 393Requirements Analysis and CommunicationTotal Hours15
Of the courses required for the minor, Accounting majors may apply
only ACCT 303 Intermediate Accounting I  and  ACCT 317 Managerial
Accounting  to their major requirements. ACCT 308 Accounting
Information Systems  may not be applied toward the Accounting major
for students with this minor. A student majoring in both Accounting and
Information Systems and Analytics is not eligible for this mino r.
This minor is only available for students in the Quinlan School of
Business.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework. An individual student's completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as
the start term for the minor. Students should consult their advisor for
assistance with course selection.Course Title Hours
Year 2
FallACCT 303Intermediate Accounting I3 Hours3
SpringINFS 346Database & Data Warehousing Systems3 Hours3
Year 3
FallACCT 308Accounting Information Systems and
Sustainability Reporting3 Hours3
SpringINFS 347 
or ISSCM 393Systems Analysis & Design 
or Requirements Analysis and
Communication3 Hours3
Year 4
FallACCT 317Managerial Accounting3 Hours3 Total Hours15
Important Details
At the discretion of the Quinlan School of Business, a maximum
of one  transfer course  (https://www.luc.edu/quinlan/academics/
studentresources/undergraduate/transfercredit/ ) taken prior to
matriculating at Loyola University Chicago may be allowed to satisfy
minor requirements. A 2.0 average GPA is required for all attempted
business courses. (BA in Economics students must also earn a 2.0
average GPA for all attempted Economics courses).
Quinlan students are limited to double dipping once (that is, counting
one course twice) between any major or minor combination, regardless
of what program the major or minor is taken in. Non-Quinlan students
are limited to double dipping twice (that is, counting two courses twice)
between business school minors and/or their respective majors.
Students planning to study abroad are encouraged to meet with their
academic advisor early in the planning stage. A student will be permitted
to take up to two approved courses in any Quinlan major or minor (and
including BA Economics majors). All study abroad courses must be
reviewed through the Study Abroad Ofﬁce course approval process.
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Learning Outcomes
•Strengths and weaknesses of AIS approaches
•System and database analysis and design
•Accounting cycles, internal controls, and fraud
•Ethical issues related to the use of AIS

--- Page 733 ---
764  Business Administration Minor
Business Administration Minor
Students who are not enrolled in the Quinlan School of Business may
want to have working knowledge of business administration and may
pursue a business administration minor.
Related Programs
Major
•Business Administration (AA)  (p. 41)
Combined
•Business Administration (BBA/MBA)  (p. 1033 )
•Business Analytics (MBA/MS)  (p. 2209 )
Curriculum
Requirements for this minor include 18 total credit hours taken from the
following courses:
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesBusiness Principles Group 19
Select three of the following:ACCT 201Introductory Accounting IACCT 202 Introductory Accounting IIECON 201Principles of MicroeconomicsECON 202 Principles of MacroeconomicsINFS 247Business Information SystemsISSCM 241 Business StatisticsBusiness Principles Group 29
Select three of the following:ECON 303Intermediate MicroeconomicsECON 304 Intermediate MacroeconomicsFINC 301Introductory Business Financeor FINC 334Principles of Corporate Finance
LREB 315 Law and the Regulatory Environment of Business IMARK 201Principles of MarketingMGMT 201 Managing People and OrganizationsSCMG 232Introduction to Supply Chain ManagementTotal Hours18
This minor is not available for students in the Quinlan School of Business.
Students may not take more than two Economics courses for this minor
and must satisfy all prerequisites for each course selected.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework. An individual student's completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as
the start term for the minor. Students should consult their advisor for
assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 2
FallBusiness Principles Group 1 course3 Hours3SpringBusiness Principles Group 1 course3 Hours3
Year 3
Fall
Business Principles Group 1 course 3Business Principles Group 2 course3 Hours6
SpringBusiness Principles Group 2 course3Business Principles Group 2 course3 Hours6 Total Hours18
Important Details
At the discretion of the Quinlan School of Business, a maximum
of one  transfer course  (https://www.luc.edu/quinlan/academics/
studentresources/undergraduate/transfercredit/ ) taken prior to
matriculating at Loyola University Chicago may be allowed to satisfy
minor requirements. A 2.0 average GPA is required for all attempted
business courses. (BA in Economics students must also earn a 2.0
average GPA for all attempted Economics courses).
Quinlan students are limited to double dipping once (that is, counting
one course twice) between any major or minor combination, regardless
of what program the major or minor is taken in. Non-Quinlan students
are limited to double dipping twice (that is, counting two courses twice)
between business school minors and/or their respective majors.
Students planning to study abroad are encouraged to meet with their
academic advisor early in the planning stage. A student will be permitted
to take up to two approved courses in any Quinlan major or minor (and
including BA Economics majors). All study abroad courses must be
reviewed through the Study Abroad Ofﬁce course approval process.
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Learning Outcomes
•Learn fundamentals of accounting and economics
•Understand data-driven decision making
•Gain competencies in managing people and organizations
Business of Applied Artiﬁcial
Intelligence Minor
The minor helps students develop advanced skills in this burgeoning
ﬁeld through a blend of rigorous coursework and practical applications
to business challenges. It develops knowledge of AI technologies and
encourages students to engage in current research, fostering skills in
assessing AI models’ applicability to business problems. Complementary
courses enhance students’ abilities to manipulate and analyze data,
laying the groundwork for empirical research that supports business
decision-making.

--- Page 734 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 765
Related Programs
Minor
•Artiﬁcial Intelligence Minor  (p. 359)
Curriculum
Six 3-credit courses for a total of 18 credits. Nine of the credits are
included in the Quinlan BBA Core so BBA majors only require nine
additional credits to complete the minor as is common in other Quinlan
minors.
Code Title Hours
ACCT 331 Introduction to the Business of Applied Artiﬁcial
Intelligence3COMP 150Introduction to Computing3
ETHC 341 Ethics in Business 1, 23INFS 343Business Analytics 13
ISSCM 241 Business Statistics 1, 23
or STAT 103 Fundamentals of StatisticsQUIN 390Capstone in Business of Applied Artiﬁcial
Intelligence3Total Hours18
1Satisﬁes BBA Core requirement.
2Satisﬁes University Core requirement.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
Course Title Hours
Freshman
SpringISSCM 241 
or STAT 103Business Statistics 
or Fundamentals of Statistics3 Hours3
Sophomore
FallCOMP 150Introduction to Computing3 Hours3
SpringACCT 331Introduction to the Business of Applied
Artiﬁcial Intelligence3 Hours3
Junior
FallETHC 341Ethics in Business 13 Hours3
SpringINFS 343Business Analytics 13 Hours3Senior
FallQUIN 390Capstone in Business of Applied Artiﬁcial
Intelligence3 Hours3 Total Hours18
1Satisﬁes BBA Core requirement.
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Learning Outcomes
•1. To prepare students to function as business translators who can
effectively bridge the gap between technical AI capabilities and
strategic business objectives.
•2. Graduates will possess a deep understanding of artiﬁcial
intelligence technologies coupled with a strong grasp of business
applications, enabling them to translate complex AI concepts into
actionable business strategies.
•3. Graduates will be equipped to lead AI initiatives within diverse
organizational contexts, ensuring that AI technologies are
implemented ethically and effectively to drive innovation, efﬁciency,
and competitive advantage.
Economics (BBA)
The BBA in Economics will equip you with a knowledge of principles,
theories, and concepts of economics and business, which will he lp you
to become a responsible and successful leader in your chosen ﬁelds.
Our students who continue their education are accepted at many top
universities.
Related Programs 
Major
•Economics (BA)  (p. 382)
Minor
•Economics Minor  (p. 767)
Curriculum
All Quinlan School of Business students must complete the University
Core Curriculum, Business Core Curriculum, and Undergraduate School
of Business program requirements. Students pursuing the BBA degree
in Economics must also complete 18 required hours from the Major
Requirements listed below.
Code Title Hours
Undergraduate Business Program RequirementsCOMM 103Business & Professional Speaking3
MATH 130 Business Calculus 3-4
or MATH 131 Applied Calculus I
or MATH 161 Calculus IETHC 341Ethics in Business3

--- Page 735 ---
766  Economics (BBA)
QUIN 101 Business Learning and Careers 0QUIN 102Financial Literacy and Well-Being1
QUIN 202 Career Preparation 2Writing IntensiveSelect two Writing Intensive courses  16Global AwarenessSelect one of the following:  23Any business course from the International Business Major Group,
or: (p. 766)ANTH 100 Globalization and Local CulturesANTH 102Culture, Society, and DiversityENTR 313 Entrepreneurship - Global Opportunity ScanGLST 101Introduction to Global StudiesPLSC 102 International Relations in an Age of GlobalizationBusiness Core CurriculumACCT 201 Introductory Accounting I 3ACCT 202Introductory Accounting II3
ECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics 3ECON 202Principles of Macroeconomics3
FINC 301 Introductory Business Finance 3
or FINC 334 Principles of Corporate FinanceISSCM 241Business Statistics3or STAT 103Fundamentals of Statistics
INFS 247 Business Information Systems 3INFS 343Business Analytics3or ECON 346Econometrics
LREB 315 Law and the Regulatory Environment of Business I 3MGMT 201Managing People and Organizations3
MGMT 304 Strategic Management 3MARK 201Principles of Marketing3
SCMG 232 Introduction to Supply Chain Management 3Major RequirementsECON 303 Intermediate Microeconomics 3ECON 304Intermediate Macroeconomics3
Select four (4) of the following: 12ECON 320Urban EconomicsECON 323 International EconomicsECON 324International Monetary RelationsECON 325 Economics of Growth & DevelopmentECON 327American Economic & Business HistoryECON 328 Environmental EconomicsECON 329Health EconomicsECON 334 Economics of Government Expenditures &
TaxationECON 336Monetary and Fiscal PolicyECON 346 EconometricsECON 360Labor EconomicsECON 370 Pricing & Industrial OrganizationECON 399Special Topics in Economics 3MATH 360Introduction to Game TheoryTotal Hours781One must be a Quinlan course or ENGL 210 Business Writing . Writing
Intensive courses must be taken in separate terms.
2A study abroad experience will also satisfy this requirement.
3Only one ECON 399 Special Topics in Economics  class is allowed to
count for this major.
Students wishing to pursue doctoral study in economics are advised
to take additional mathematics courses including the calculus course
sequence ( MATH 161 Calculus I , MATH 162 Calculus II  and MATH 263
Multivariable Calculus ); MATH 212 Linear Algebra ; and two 300-level
mathematical statistics courses ( STAT 304 Introduction to Probability ,
STAT 305 Introduction to Mathematical Statistics ). Students should
consult with their economics advisor about completing mathematics
courses.
International Business Major Group
Code Title Hours
ACCT 306 Advanced Financial Accounting 3ECON 323International Economics3
ECON 324 International Monetary Relations 3ECON 325Economics of Growth & Development3
FINC 355 International Finance Management 3HRER 329Global HR and Organizational Behavior3
IBUS 201 Introduction to International Business 3IBUS 201HBusiness Management: A Global and Social
Perspective3
IBUS 315 International Management 3INFS 336Global Perspectives on Digital Business3
MARK 363 International Marketing 3SCMG 338Global Supply Chain Management I3
SPRT 345 Globalization of Sport Industry 3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
ECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics 3INFS 247Business Information Systems3
MATH 130 
or MATH 131 
or MATH 161Business Calculus 
or Applied Calculus I 
or Calculus I3-4QUIN 101Business Learning and Careers0 Hours9
SpringACCT 201Introductory Accounting I3
ECON 202 Principles of Macroeconomics 3QUIN 102Financial Literacy and Well-Being1 Hours7

--- Page 736 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 767
Year 2
FallACCT 202Introductory Accounting II3
ISSCM 241 
or STAT 103Business Statistics 
or Fundamentals of Statistics3ECON 303Intermediate Microeconomics3QUIN 202Career Preparation2 Hours11
Spring
ECON 304 Intermediate Macroeconomics 3MGMT 201Managing People and Organizations3
SCMG 232 Introduction to Supply Chain Management 3Business Writing Intensive Course3 Hours12
Year 3
FallMARK 201Principles of Marketing3
COMM 103 Business & Professional Speaking 3ECON Elective3 Hours9
SpringETHC 341Ethics in Business3
FINC 301 Introductory Business Finance 3INFS 343 
or ECON 346Business Analytics 
or Econometrics3ECON Elective3 Hours12
Year 4
Fall
LREB 315 Law and the Regulatory Environment of
Business I3Writing Intensive Course3ECON Elective3 Hours9
Spring
MGMT 304 Strategic Management 3Global Awareness3ECON Elective3 Hours9 Total Hours78
Specialized Requirements
Transfer Students
At the discretion of the Quinlan School of Business, a maximum of one
transfer course taken prior to matriculating at Loyola University Chicago
may be allowed to satisfy major requirements.
Study Abroad
Students planning to study abroad are encouraged to meet with their
academic advisor early in the planning stage. A student will be permitted
to take up to two approved courses in any Quinlan major or minor. All
study abroad courses must be reviewed through the Study Abroad Ofﬁce
course approval process.Important Details
A 2.0 average GPA is required for all attempted business courses.
Quinlan students are limited to double dipping once (that is, counting
one course twice) between any major or minor combination, regardless
of what program the major or minor is taken in. Non-Quinlan students
are limited to double dipping twice (that is, counting two courses twice)
between business school minors and/or their respective majors.
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Analysis of real-world economic policies
•Principles of economics reasoning
•Business and professional presentations
•Business ethics and the market economy
•Graphical and quantitative modelings
Economics Minor
Any Loyola student who wishes to expand his or her skills in economics
may pursue an economics minor.
Related Programs
Major
•Economics (BBA)  (p. 765)
•Finance (BBA)  (p. 771)
Minor
•Finance Minor  (p. 773)
Curriculum
The Economics minor requires the following credit hours for completion:
•Quinlan students require 12 credit hours (see footnote below)
•Non-Quinlan students require 18 credit hours
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesECON 201Principles of Microeconomics 13
ECON 202 Principles of Macroeconomics 13Select one of the following:3
ECON 303 Intermediate MicroeconomicsECON 304Intermediate MacroeconomicsElectivesSelect three of the following:9
ECON 303 Intermediate Microeconomics (if not taken above)ECON 304Intermediate Macroeconomics (if not taken above)ECON 320 Urban EconomicsECON 323International Economics

--- Page 737 ---
768  Entrepreneurship (BBA)
ECON 324 International Monetary RelationsECON 325Economics of Growth & DevelopmentECON 327 American Economic & Business HistoryECON 328Environmental EconomicsECON 329 Health EconomicsECON 334Economics of Government Expenditures &
TaxationECON 336 Monetary and Fiscal PolicyECON 346EconometricsECON 360 Labor EconomicsECON 370Pricing & Industrial OrganizationECON 399 Special Topics in EconomicsMATH 360Introduction to Game TheoryTotal Hours18
1Quinlan Business Core course - not included in 12 credits toward minor
for Quinlan students.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework. An individual student's completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as
the start term for the minor. Students should consult their advisor for
assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
FallECON 201Principles of Microeconomics3 Hours3
SpringECON 202Principles of Macroeconomics3 Hours3
Year 2
FallECON 303 
or ECON 304Intermediate Microeconomics 
or Intermediate Macroeconomics3 Hours3
SpringECON Elective3 Hours3
Year 3
FallECON Elective3 Hours3
WinterECON Elective3 Hours3 Total Hours18
Important Details
At the discretion of the Quinlan School of Business, a maximum
of one  transfer course  (https://www.luc.edu/quinlan/academics/
studentresources/undergraduate/transfercredit/ ) taken prior tomatriculating at Loyola University Chicago may be allowed to satisfy
minor requirements. A 2.0 average GPA is required for all attempted
business courses. (BA in Economics students must also earn a 2.0
average GPA for all attempted Economics courses).
Quinlan students are limited to double dipping once (that is, counting
one course twice) between any major or minor combination, regardless
of what program the major or minor is taken in. Non-Quinlan students
are limited to double dipping twice (that is, counting two courses twice)
between business school minors and/or their respective majors.
Students planning to study abroad are encouraged to meet with their
academic advisor early in the planning stage. A student will be permitted
to take up to two approved courses in any Quinlan major or minor (and
including BA Economics majors). All study abroad courses must be
reviewed through the Study Abroad Ofﬁce course approval process.
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Learning Outcomes
•Understanding principles of economic reasoning
•Applying economic theory to policy analysis
•Quantifying beneﬁts and costs of market structures
Entrepreneurship (BBA)
It takes more than a great idea to build a great business. The Quinlan
School of Business BBA in Entrepreneurship degree program provides
the real-world insights and skills you need to translate your creativity
into a workable business plan. The skills you learn will help you as a new
venture entrepreneur or a corporate professional.
Related Programs
Minor
•Entrepreneurship Minor  (p. 770)
Curriculum
All Quinlan School of Business students must complete the University
Core Curriculum, Business Core Curriculum, and Undergraduate School
of Business program requirements. Students pursuing the BBA degree in
Entrepreneurship must also complete 15 required hours from the Major
Requirements listed below.
Code Title Hours
Undergraduate Business Program RequirementsCOMM 103Business & Professional Speaking3
MATH 110 Business Precalculus 3
or MATH 118 Precalculus IIETHC 341Ethics in Business3
QUIN 101 Business Learning and Careers 0QUIN 102Financial Literacy and Well-Being1
QUIN 202 Career Preparation 2Writing IntensiveSelect two Writing Intensive courses  16Global Awareness

--- Page 738 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 769
Select one of the following:  23ENTR 313Entrepreneurship - Global Opportunity ScanAny business course from the International Business Major Group,
or: (p. 769)ANTH 100Globalization and Local CulturesANTH 102 Culture, Society, and DiversityGLST 101Introduction to Global StudiesPLSC 102 International Relations in an Age of GlobalizationBusiness Core CurriculumACCT 201 Introductory Accounting I 3ACCT 202Introductory Accounting II3
ECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics 3ECON 202Principles of Macroeconomics3
FINC 301 Introductory Business Finance 3
or FINC 334 Principles of Corporate FinanceINFS 247Business Information Systems3
INFS 343 Business Analytics 3
or ECON 346 EconometricsISSCM 241Business Statistics3or STAT 103Fundamentals of Statistics
LREB 315 Law and the Regulatory Environment of Business I 3MARK 201Principles of Marketing3
MGMT 201 Managing People and Organizations 3MGMT 304Strategic Management3
SCMG 232 Introduction to Supply Chain Management 3Major RequirementsENTR 201 Introduction to Entrepreneurship 3ENTR 345Entrepreneurial Marketing3
ENTR 390 Entrepreneurship Strategies - Capstone 3ElectivesSelect two of the following: 6ENTR 311Social EntrepreneurshipENTR 313 Entrepreneurship - Global Opportunity ScanISSCM 349Project ManagementENTR 395 Independent StudyENTR 399Selected Topics in Entrepreneurship 3Total Hours75
1One must be a Quinlan course or ENGL 210 Business Writing . Writing
Intensive courses must be taken in separate terms.
2A study abroad experience will also satisfy this requirement.
3Only one ENTR 399 Selected Topics in Entrepreneurship  class is
allowed to count for this major.
International Business Major Group
Code Title Hours
ACCT 306 Advanced Financial Accounting 3ECON 323International Economics3
ECON 324 International Monetary Relations 3ECON 325Economics of Growth & Development3
FINC 355 International Finance Management 3HRER 329Global HR and Organizational Behavior3
IBUS 201 Introduction to International Business 3IBUS 201HBusiness Management: A Global and Social
Perspective3
IBUS 315 International Management 3INFS 336Global Perspectives on Digital Business3
MARK 363 International Marketing 3SCMG 338Global Supply Chain Management I3
SPRT 345 Globalization of Sport Industry 3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
ECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics 3INFS 247Business Information Systems3
MATH 110 
or MATH 118Business Precalculus 
or Precalculus II3QUIN 101Business Learning and Careers0 Hours9
SpringACCT 201Introductory Accounting I3
ECON 202 Principles of Macroeconomics 3ENTR 201Essentials of Entrepreneurship3QUIN 102Financial Literacy and Well-Being1 Hours10
Year 2
Fall
ACCT 202 Introductory Accounting II 3ISSCM 241 
or STAT 103Business Statistics 
or Fundamentals of Statistics3QUIN 202Career Preparation2 Hours8
Spring
MGMT 201 Managing People and Organizations 3SCMG 232Introduction to Supply Chain Management3Business Writing Intensive Course3 Hours9
Year 3
Fall
MARK 201 Principles of Marketing 3COMM 103Business & Professional Speaking3ENTR Elective3 Hours9
Spring
FINC 301 Introductory Business Finance 3INFS 343 
or ECON 346Business Analytics 
or Econometrics3
ETHC 341 Ethics in Business 3

--- Page 739 ---
770  Entrepreneurship MinorENTR Elective3 Hours12
Year 4
FallENTR 345Entrepreneurial Marketing3
LREB 315 Law and the Regulatory Environment of
Business I3Writing Intensive Course3 Hours9
SpringENTR 390Entrepreneurship Strategies - Capstone3
MGMT 304 Strategic Management 3Global Awareness3 Hours9 Total Hours75
Specialized Requirements
Transfer Students
At the discretion of the Quinlan School of Business, a maximum
of one transfer course  (https://www.luc.edu/quinlan/academics/
studentresources/undergraduate/transfercredit/ ) taken prior to
matriculating at Loyola University Chicago may be allowed to satisfy
major requirements.
Study Abroad
Students planning to study abroad are encouraged to meet with their
academic advisor early in the planning stage. A student will be permitted
to take up to two approved courses in any Quinlan major or minor (and
including BA Economics majors). All study abroad courses must be
reviewed through the Study Abroad Ofﬁce course approval process.
Important Details
A 2.0 average GPA is required for all attempted business courses. (BA in
Economics students must also earn a 2.0 average GPA for all attempted
Economics courses).
Quinlan students are limited to double dipping once (that is, counting
one course twice) between any major or minor combination, regardless
of what program the major or minor is taken in. Non-Quinlan students
are limited to double dipping twice (that is, counting two courses twice)
between business school minors and/or their respective majors.
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Translating ideas into viable products or services
•Responsible, ethical leadership
•Launching and growing a new venture
•Tactics entrepreneurs use to attract customers
•Characteristics of international markets•Social entrepreneurship vs. traditional entrepreneurship
•Problem-solving and critical thinking skills
Entrepreneurship Minor
Students who wish to expand their skills in entrepreneurship may pursue
a minor in this ﬁeld. The minor in entrepreneurship provides excellent
foundational knowledge of strategic aspects of the entrepreneurial
process.
Coursework covers identifying business opportunities, developing unique
business models, forming an entrepreneurial team, securing ﬁnancial
resources, and the importance and practical application of marketing,
economics, accounting, ﬁnance, and management skills.
Related Programs
Major
•Business Administration (AA)  (p. 41)
•Entrepreneurship (BBA)  (p. 768)
Minor
•Economics Minor  (p. 767)
Curriculum
The Entrepreneurship minor requires the following credit hours for
completion:
•Quinlan students require 12 credit hours (see footnote below)
•Non-Quinlan students require 18 credit hours
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesENTR 201Introduction to Entrepreneurship3
Select two of the following:  16ACCT 201Introductory Accounting IECON 201 Principles of MicroeconomicsINFS 247Business Information SystemsMARK 201 Principles of MarketingMGMT 201Managing People and OrganizationsElectivesSelect three of the following:9
ENTR 311 Social EntrepreneurshipENTR 313Entrepreneurship - Global Opportunity ScanENTR 345 Entrepreneurial MarketingENTR 390Entrepreneurship Strategies - CapstoneENTR 395 Independent StudyENTR 399Selected Topics in EntrepreneurshipTotal Hours18
1Quinlan Business Core courses - not included in 12 credits toward
minor for Quinlan students.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework. An individual student's completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as

--- Page 740 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 771
the start term for the minor. Students should consult their advisor for
assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
SpringENTR 201Essentials of Entrepreneurship3 Hours3
Year 2
Fall200-level Business Principles course3 Hours3
Spring200-level Business Principles course3 Hours3
Year 3
FallENTR Elective3 Hours3
SpringENTR Elective3 Hours3
Year 4
FallENTR Elective3 Hours3 Total Hours18
Important Details
At the discretion of the Quinlan School of Business, a maximum
of one  transfer course  (https://www.luc.edu/quinlan/academics/
studentresources/undergraduate/transfercredit/ ) taken prior to
matriculating at Loyola University Chicago may be allowed to satisfy
minor requirements. A 2.0 average GPA is required for all attempted
business courses. (BA in Economics students must also earn a 2.0
average GPA for all attempted Economics courses).
Quinlan students are limited to double dipping once (that is, counting
one course twice) between any major or minor combination, regardless
of what program the major or minor is taken in. Non-Quinlan students
are limited to double dipping twice (that is, counting two courses twice)
between business school minors and/or their respective majors.
Students planning to study abroad are encouraged to meet with their
academic advisor early in the planning stage. A student will be permitted
to take up to two approved courses in any Quinlan major or minor (and
including BA Economics majors). All study abroad courses must be
reviewed through the Study Abroad Ofﬁce course approval process.
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.Learning Outcomes
•Translating ideas into viable products or services
•Launching and growing a new venture
•Identifying and developing markets
•Develop problem-solving and critical thinking skills
Finance (BBA)
Invest in your future with our BBA in Finance.
The Quinlan School of Business has one of the ﬁnest undergraduate
ﬁnance programs in Chicago. The ﬁnance faculty is especially well-known
for its expertise in socially responsible investing and derivatives.
Related Programs
Minor
•Finance Minor  (p. 773)
Curriculum
All Quinlan School of Business students must complete the University
Core Curriculum  (https://www.luc.edu/core/index.shtml/#den240660 ),
Business Core Curriculum, and Undergraduate School of Business
program requirements. Students pursuing the BBA degree in Finance
must also complete 18 required hours from the Major Requirements
listed below.
Code Title Hours
Undergraduate Business Program RequirementsCOMM 103Business & Professional Speaking3
MATH 130 Business Calculus 3-4
or MATH 131 Applied Calculus I
or MATH 161 Calculus IETHC 341Ethics in Business3
QUIN 101 Business Learning and Careers 0QUIN 102Financial Literacy and Well-Being1
QUIN 202 Career Preparation 2Writing IntensiveSelect two Writing Intensive courses  16Global AwarenessSelect one of the following:  23Any business course from the International Business Major Group,
or: (p. 772)ANTH 100 Globalization and Local CulturesANTH 102Culture, Society, and DiversityENTR 313 Entrepreneurship - Global Opportunity ScanGLST 101Introduction to Global StudiesPLSC 102 International Relations in an Age of GlobalizationBusiness Core CurriculumACCT 201 Introductory Accounting I 3ACCT 202Introductory Accounting II3
ECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics 3ECON 202Principles of Macroeconomics3
FINC 334 Principles of Corporate Finance 3INFS 247Business Information Systems3

--- Page 741 ---
772  Finance (BBA)
INFS 343 Business Analytics 3
or ECON 346 EconometricsISSCM 241Business Statistics3or STAT 103Fundamentals of Statistics
LREB 315 Law and the Regulatory Environment of Business I 3MARK 201Principles of Marketing3
MGMT 201 Managing People and Organizations 3MGMT 304Strategic Management3
SCMG 232 Introduction to Supply Chain Management 3Major RequirementsECON 303 Intermediate Microeconomics 3FINC 335Investments3
Select four of the following: 12Group A (select at least one)FINC 336 Introduction to DerivativesFINC 342Advanced Business FinanceFINC 345 Portfolio ManagementFINC 346Introduction to OptionsFINC 356 Advanced Topics in Investment Banking and Asset
ManagementFINC 357Cases in Corporate FinanceFINC 358 Financial AnalyticsGroup B (select no more than three)FINC 337 Banking, Money & Capital MarketsFINC 338Risk Management and InsuranceFINC 347 Financial InstitutionsFINC 349Real Estate Finance & InvestmentsFINC 355 International Finance ManagementFINC 395Independent Study in FinanceFINC 399Special Topics in Finance 3Total Hours78
1One must be a Quinlan course or ENGL 210 Business Writing . Writing
Intensive courses must be taken in separate terms.
2A study abroad experience will also satisfy this requirement.
3Only one FINC 399 Special Topics in Finance  class is allowed to count
for this major.
International Business Major Group
Code Title Hours
ACCT 306 Advanced Financial Accounting 3ECON 323International Economics3
ECON 324 International Monetary Relations 3ECON 325Economics of Growth & Development3
FINC 355 International Finance Management 3HRER 329Global HR and Organizational Behavior3
IBUS 201 Introduction to International Business 3IBUS 201HBusiness Management: A Global and Social
Perspective3
IBUS 315 International Management 3INFS 336Global Perspectives on Digital Business3
MARK 363 International Marketing 3SCMG 338Global Supply Chain Management I3
SPRT 345 Globalization of Sport Industry 3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
ECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics 3INFS 247Business Information Systems3
MATH 130 
or MATH 131 
or MATH 161Business Calculus 
or Applied Calculus I 
or Calculus I3-4QUIN 101Business Learning and Careers0 Hours9
SpringECON 202Principles of Macroeconomics3
ISSCM 241 
or STAT 103Business Statistics 
or Fundamentals of Statistics3QUIN 102Financial Literacy and Well-Being1 Hours7
Year 2
FallACCT 201Introductory Accounting I3
FINC 334 Principles of Corporate Finance 3QUIN 202Career Preparation2 Hours8
SpringACCT 202Introductory Accounting II3
SCMG 232 Introduction to Supply Chain Management 3FINC 335Investments3 Hours9
Year 3
FallCOMM 103Business & Professional Speaking3
MGMT 201 Managing People and Organizations 3ECON 303Intermediate Microeconomics3
Buisness Writing Intensive Course 3FINC Elective3 Hours15
SpringETHC 341Ethics in Business3
INFS 343 
or ECON 346Business Analytics 
or Econometrics3MARK 201Principles of Marketing3FINC Elective (Group A)3 Hours12

--- Page 742 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 773
Year 4
Fall
LREB 315 Law and the Regulatory Environment of
Business I3Writing Intensive Course3FINC Elective3 Hours9
Spring
MGMT 304 Strategic Management 3Global Awareness3FINC Elective3 Hours9 Total Hours78
Specialized Requirements
Transfer Students
At the discretion of the Quinlan School of Business, a maximum
of one transfer course  (https://www.luc.edu/quinlan/academics/
studentresources/undergraduate/transfercredit/ ) taken prior to
matriculating at Loyola University Chicago may be allowed to satisfy
major requirements.
Study Abroad
Students planning to study abroad are encouraged to meet with their
academic advisor early in the planning stage. A student will be permitted
to take up to two approved courses in any Quinlan major or minor (and
including BA Economics majors). All study abroad courses must be
reviewed through the Study Abroad Ofﬁce course approval process.
Important Details
A 2.0 average GPA is required for all attempted business courses. (BA in
Economics students must also earn a 2.0 average GPA for all attempted
Economics courses).
Quinlan students are limited to double dipping once (that is, counting
one course twice) between any major or minor combination, regardless
of what program the major or minor is taken in. Non-Quinlan students
are limited to double dipping twice (that is, counting two courses twice)
between business school minors and/or their respective majors.
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Financial markets and institutions
•Financial management
•Capital budgeting
•International ﬁnancial management
•Portfolio theory
•Derivatives
•Risk managementFinance Minor
Students who are pursuing other majors but who wish to expand their
skills in this ﬁeld may pursue a minor in ﬁnance.
Related Programs
Major
•Finance (BBA)  (p. 771)
Combined
•Business/Finance (BBA/MSF)  (p. 1042 )
•Finance (MBA/MSF)  (p. 2214 )
Curriculum
The Finance minor requires the following credit hours for completion:
•Quinlan students require 9 credit hours (see footnotes below)
•Non-Quinlan students require 18 credit hours
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesACCT 201Introductory Accounting I 13
ECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics 13ISSCM 241Business Statistics 1, 23
FINC 334 Principles of Corporate Finance 13FINC 335Investments3
ElectivesSelect one of the following:  33
FINC 336 Introduction to DerivativesFINC 337Banking, Money & Capital MarketsFINC 338 Risk Management and InsuranceFINC 342Advanced Business FinanceFINC 345 Portfolio ManagementFINC 346Introduction to OptionsFINC 347 Financial InstitutionsFINC 349Real Estate Finance & InvestmentsFINC 355 International Finance ManagementFINC 356Advanced Topics in Investment Banking and Asset
ManagementFINC 357 Cases in Corporate FinanceFINC 358Financial AnalyticsFINC 365 Advanced International Financial ManagementFINC 395Independent Study in FinanceFINC 399Special Topics in FinanceTotal Hours18
1Quinlan Business Core course - not included in 9 credit hours toward
minor for Quinlan students.
2Non-Quinlan students who have completed STAT 103 Fundamentals of
Statistics  must take INFS 247 Business Information Systems  in place
of ISSCM 241 Business Statistics .
3Quinlan students must select two courses from this group (6 credits).

--- Page 743 ---
774  Human Resource and Employment Relations Minor
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework. An individual student's completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as
the start term for the minor.  MATH 131 Applied Calculus I  or MATH 161
Calculus I  must be completed as a prerequisite before taking FINC
334. Students should consult their advisor for assistance with course
selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
FallECON 201Principles of Microeconomics3 Hours3
SpringISSCM 241Business Statistics3 Hours3
Year 2
FallACCT 201Introductory Accounting I3 Hours3
SpringFINC 334Principles of Corporate Finance3 Hours3
Year 3
FallFINC 335Investments3 Hours3
SpringFINC Elective3 Hours3 Total Hours18
Important Details
At the discretion of the Quinlan School of Business, a maximum
of one  transfer course  (https://www.luc.edu/quinlan/academics/
studentresources/undergraduate/transfercredit/ ) taken prior to
matriculating at Loyola University Chicago may be allowed to satisfy
minor requirements. A 2.0 average GPA is required for all attempted
business courses. (BA in Economics students must also earn a 2.0
average GPA for all attempted Economics courses).
Quinlan students are limited to double dipping once (that is, counting
one course twice) between any major or minor combination, regardless
of what program the major or minor is taken in. Non-Quinlan students
are limited to double dipping twice (that is, counting two courses twice)
between business school minors and/or their respective majors.
Students planning to study abroad are encouraged to meet with their
academic advisor early in the planning stage. A student will be permitted
to take up to two approved courses in any Quinlan major or minor (and
including BA Economics majors). All study abroad courses must be
reviewed through the Study Abroad Ofﬁce course approval process.Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Learning Outcomes
•Understand complexities of ﬁnancial markets, institutions, and
management
•Identify strategies for selecting and managing investments
•Implications for risk management in a global context
Human Resource and Employment
Relations Minor
The Human Resource and Employment Relations minor helps prepare
students to direct employees toward attaining their personal as well as
organizational goals.
Related Programs
Major
•Human Resource Management (BBA)  (p. 775)
Combined
•Business/Human Resources (BBA/MSHR)  (p. 1044 )
•Human Resources (MBA/MSHR)  (p. 2215 )
Curriculum
The Human Resource and Employment Relations minor requires the
following credit hours for completion:
•Quinlan students require 9 credit hours (see footnotes below)
•Non-Quinlan students require 18 credit hours
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesHRER 301Principles of HR Management3
Select two of the following:  16ISSCM 241Business Statisticsor PSYC 304Statistics
ECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics
or ECON 202 Principles of MacroeconomicsMGMT 201Managing People and Organizationsor PSYC 362Industrial/Organizational Psychology
INFS 247 Business Information SystemsElectivesSelect three of the following:  29HRER 311Employment RelationsHRER 313 Compensation ManagementHRER 317Human Resource StafﬁngHRER 322 Human Resource DevelopmentHRER 329Global HR and Organizational BehaviorHRER 364Negotiations for HR ProfessionalsTotal Hours18

--- Page 744 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 775
1Quinlan Business Core courses - not included in 9 credits toward minor
for Quinlan students.
2Quinlan students must select two courses from this group (6 credits).
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework. An individual student's completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as
the start term for the minor. Students should consult their advisor for
assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
SpringBusiness Principles or Psychology choice3 Hours3
Year 2
FallHRER 3013 Hours3
SpringBusiness Principles or Psychology choice3 Hours3
Year 3
FallHRER Elective3 Hours3
SpringHRER Elective3 Hours3
Year 4
SpringHRER Elective3 Hours3 Total Hours18
Important Details
At the discretion of the Quinlan School of Business, a maximum
of one  transfer course  (https://www.luc.edu/quinlan/academics/
studentresources/undergraduate/transfercredit/ ) taken prior to
matriculating at Loyola University Chicago may be allowed to satisfy
minor requirements. A 2.0 average GPA is required for all attempted
business courses. (BA in Economics students must also earn a 2.0
average GPA for all attempted Economics courses).
Quinlan students are limited to double dipping once (that is, counting
one course twice) between any major or minor combination, regardless
of what program the major or minor is taken in. Non-Quinlan students
are limited to double dipping twice (that is, counting two courses twice)
between business school minors and/or their respective majors.
Students planning to study abroad are encouraged to meet with their
academic advisor early in the planning stage. A student will be permitted
to take up to two approved courses in any Quinlan major or minor (andincluding BA Economics majors). All study abroad courses must be
reviewed through the Study Abroad Ofﬁce course approval process.
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Learning Outcomes
•How to manage people and organizations for well-being
•Training, organizing, motivating, and evaluating people in the
workplace
•Fundamentals of labor relations, compensation, and beneﬁts
•Cultivating diversity, inclusion, equity, and belonging
Human Resource Management (BBA)
Skills shortages. Work-life balance. Diversity needs. These are just a few
of the challenges in ﬁnding and retaining talented employees. The BBA in
Human Resource Management degree program will help you develop a
socially responsible managerial philosophy in directing employees in their
personal ambitions and your organizational goals.
Related Programs
Minor
•Human Resource and Employment Relations Minor  (p. 774)
Curriculum
All Quinlan School of Business students must complete the University
Core Curriculum, Business Core Curriculum, and Undergraduate School
of Business program requirements. Students pursuing the BBA degree
in Human Resource Management must also complete 15 required hours
from the Major Requirements listed below.
Code Title Hours
Undergraduate Business Program RequirementsCOMM 103Business & Professional Speaking3
MATH 110 Business Precalculus 3
or MATH 118 Precalculus IIETHC 341Ethics in Business3
QUIN 101 Business Learning and Careers 0QUIN 102Financial Literacy and Well-Being1
QUIN 202 Career Preparation 2Writing IntensiveSelect two Writing Intensive courses  16Global AwarenessSelect one of the following:  23Any business course from the International Business Major Group,
or: (p. 776)ANTH 100 Globalization and Local CulturesANTH 102Culture, Society, and DiversityENTR 313 Entrepreneurship - Global Opportunity ScanGLST 101Introduction to Global StudiesPLSC 102 International Relations in an Age of GlobalizationBusiness Core Curriculum

--- Page 745 ---
776  Human Resource Management (BBA)
ACCT 201 Introductory Accounting I 3ACCT 202Introductory Accounting II3
ECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics 3ECON 202Principles of Macroeconomics3
FINC 301 Introductory Business Finance 3
or FINC 334 Principles of Corporate FinanceINFS 247Business Information Systems3
INFS 343 Business Analytics 3
or ECON 346 EconometricsISSCM 241Business Statistics3or STAT 103Fundamentals of Statistics
LREB 315 Law and the Regulatory Environment of Business I 3MARK 201Principles of Marketing3
MGMT 201 Managing People and Organizations 3MGMT 304Strategic Management3
SCMG 232 Introduction to Supply Chain Management 3Major RequirementsHRER 301 Principles of HR Management 3Select four of the following:12
HRER 311 Employment RelationsHRER 313Compensation ManagementHRER 317 Human Resource StafﬁngHRER 322Human Resource DevelopmentHRER 329 Global HR and Organizational BehaviorHRER 364Negotiations for HR ProfessionalsHRER 395 Independent Study in Human Resources and
Employment RelationsHRER 399Special Topics in Human Resources and
Employment Relations 3Total Hours75
1One must be a Quinlan course or ENGL 210 Business Writing . Writing
Intensive courses must be taken in separate terms.
2A study abroad experience will also satisfy this requirement.
3Only one HRER 399 Special Topics in Human Resources and
Employment Relations  class is allowed to count for this major.
International Business Major Group
Code Title Hours
ACCT 306 Advanced Financial Accounting 3ECON 323International Economics3
ECON 324 International Monetary Relations 3ECON 325Economics of Growth & Development3
FINC 355 International Finance Management 3HRER 329Global HR and Organizational Behavior3
IBUS 201 Introduction to International Business 3IBUS 201HBusiness Management: A Global and Social
Perspective3
IBUS 315 International Management 3INFS 336Global Perspectives on Digital Business3
MARK 363 International Marketing 3SCMG 338Global Supply Chain Management I3
SPRT 345 Globalization of Sport Industry 3Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
ECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics 3INFS 247Business Information Systems3
MATH 110 
or MATH 118Business Precalculus 
or Precalculus II3QUIN 101Business Learning and Careers0 Hours9
SpringACCT 201Introductory Accounting I3
ECON 202 Principles of Macroeconomics 3QUIN 102Financial Literacy and Well-Being1 Hours7
Year 2
FallACCT 202Introductory Accounting II3
ISSCM 241 
or STAT 103Business Statistics 
or Fundamentals of Statistics3HRER 3013QUIN 202Career Preparation2 Hours11
Spring
MGMT 201 Managing People and Organizations 3SCMG 232Introduction to Supply Chain Management3Business Writing Intensive Course3 Hours9
Year 3
Fall
FINC 301 Introductory Business Finance 3MARK 201Principles of Marketing3
COMM 103 Business & Professional Speaking 3HRER Elective3 Hours12
SpringINFS 343 
or ECON 346Business Analytics 
or Econometrics3
ETHC 341 Ethics in Business 3HRER Elective3 Hours9
Year 4
FallLREB 315Law and the Regulatory Environment of
Business I3
Writing Intensive Course 3

--- Page 746 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 777HRER Elective3 Hours9
SpringMGMT 304Strategic Management3
Global Awareness 3HRER Elective3 Hours9 Total Hours75
Specialized Requirements
Transfer Students
At the discretion of the Quinlan School of Business, a maximum
of one transfer course  (https://www.luc.edu/quinlan/academics/
studentresources/undergraduate/transfercredit/ ) taken prior to
matriculating at Loyola University Chicago may be allowed to satisfy
major requirements.
Study Abroad
Students planning to study abroad are encouraged to meet with their
academic advisor early in the planning stage. A student will be permitted
to take up to two approved courses in any Quinlan major or minor (and
including BA Economics majors). All study abroad courses must be
reviewed through the Study Abroad Ofﬁce course approval process.
Important Details
A 2.0 average GPA is required for all attempted business courses. (BA in
Economics students must also earn a 2.0 average GPA for all attempted
Economics courses).
Quinlan students are limited to double dipping once (that is, counting
one course twice) between any major or minor combination, regardless
of what program the major or minor is taken in. Non-Quinlan students
are limited to double dipping twice (that is, counting two courses twice)
between business school minors and/or their respective majors.
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Interpersonal skills theory
•Understanding of ethical perspectives and sustainable outcomes
with respect to all aspects of HR management
•Methods for sustaining employee diversity
•Develop a global perspective as it relates to human resources
•Training, organizing, motivating, and evaluating people in work
settings
•Compensation and beneﬁts and employment relationsInformation Systems and Analytics
(BBA)
The ability to combine systems knowledge with an understanding of the
"big picture" means job-ready value. Our BBA in Information Systems and
Analytics degree program at the Quinlan School of Business prepares
students for a professional career in the rapidly changing ﬁelds of
information systems and data analysis.
Related Programs
Minor
•Information Systems Minor  (p. 779)
Curriculum
All Quinlan School of Business students must complete the University
Core Curriculum  (p. 1405 ), Business Core Curriculum, and Undergraduate
School of Business program requirements. Students pursuing the BBA
degree in Information Systems and Analytics must also complete 15
required hours from the Major Requirements listed below.
Code Title Hours
Undergraduate Business Program RequirementsCOMM 103Business & Professional Speaking3
MATH 110 Business Precalculus 3
or MATH 118 Precalculus IIETHC 341Ethics in Business3
QUIN 101 Business Learning and Careers 0QUIN 102Financial Literacy and Well-Being1
QUIN 202 Career Preparation 2Writing IntensiveSelect two Writing Intensive courses  16Global AwarenessSelect one of the following:  23Any business course from the International Business Major Group,
or: (p. 778)ANTH 100 Globalization and Local CulturesANTH 102Culture, Society, and DiversityENTR 313 Entrepreneurship - Global Opportunity ScanGLST 101Introduction to Global StudiesPLSC 102 International Relations in an Age of GlobalizationBusiness Core CurriculumACCT 201 Introductory Accounting I 3ACCT 202Introductory Accounting II3
ECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics 3ECON 202Principles of Macroeconomics3
FINC 301 Introductory Business Finance 3
or FINC 334 Principles of Corporate FinanceINFS 247Business Information Systems3
INFS 343 Business Analytics 3
or ECON 346 EconometricsISSCM 241Business Statistics3or STAT 103Fundamentals of Statistics
LREB 315 Law and the Regulatory Environment of Business I 3MARK 201Principles of Marketing3

--- Page 747 ---
778  Information Systems and Analytics (BBA)
MGMT 201 Managing People and Organizations 3MGMT 304Strategic Management3
SCMG 232 Introduction to Supply Chain Management 3Major RequirementsINFS 346 Database & Data Warehousing Systems 3INFS 347Systems Analysis & Design3
INFS 360 Data Visualization & Business Intelligence 3Select one of the following:3
INFS 394 Programming in PythonINFS 397VBA Programming with MS OfﬁceSelect two of the following. The Programming course not taken
above (INFS 394 or 397) may be taken as an elective in this major:6INFS 336Global Perspectives on Digital BusinessINFS 347 Systems Analysis & DesignINFS 348Advanced Data Analytics and AIINFS 362 User Experience (UX) and BiometricsINFS 394Programming in PythonINFS 395 Independent Study in Information SystemsINFS 397VBA Programming with MS OfﬁceINFS 399 Special Topics in Information Systems 3ISSCM 349Project ManagementTotal Hours78
1One must be a Quinlan course or ENGL 210 Business Writing . Writing
Intensive courses must be taken in separate terms.
2A study abroad experience will also satisfy this requirement.
3Only one INFS 399 Special Topics in Information Systems  class is
allowed to count for this major.
International Business Major Group
Code Title Hours
ACCT 306 Advanced Financial Accounting 3ECON 323International Economics3
ECON 324 International Monetary Relations 3ECON 325Economics of Growth & Development3
FINC 355 International Finance Management 3HRER 329Global HR and Organizational Behavior3
IBUS 201 Introduction to International Business 3IBUS 201HBusiness Management: A Global and Social
Perspective3
IBUS 315 International Management 3INFS 336Global Perspectives on Digital Business3
MARK 363 International Marketing 3SCMG 338Global Transportation3
SPRT 345 Globalization of Sport Industry 3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
ECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics 3INFS 247Business Information Systems3
MATH 110 
or MATH 118Business Precalculus 
or Precalculus II3QUIN 101Business Learning and Careers0 Hours9
SpringACCT 201Introductory Accounting I3
ECON 202 Principles of Macroeconomics 3QUIN 102Financial Literacy and Well-Being1 Hours7
Year 2
FallACCT 202Introductory Accounting II3
INFS 346 Database & Data Warehousing Systems 3ISSCM 241 
or STAT 103Business Statistics 
or Fundamentals of Statistics3QUIN 202Career Preparation2 Hours11
Spring
MGMT 201 Managing People and Organizations 3SCMG 232Introduction to Supply Chain Management3
Business Writing Intensive Course 3INFS Analysis Choice3 Hours12
Year 3
FallMARK 201Principles of Marketing3
COMM 103 Business & Professional Speaking 3INFS Programming Choice3 Hours9
SpringFINC 301Introductory Business Finance3
INFS 343 
or ECON 346Business Analytics 
or Econometrics3ETHC 341Ethics in Business3 Hours9
Year 4
FallLREB 315Law and the Regulatory Environment of
Business I3
Writing Intensive Course 3INFS Elective3 Hours9
SpringMGMT 304Strategic Management3
Global Awareness 3

--- Page 748 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 779INFS Elective3 Hours9 Total Hours75
Specialized Requirements
Transfer Students
At the discretion of the Quinlan School of Business, a maximum
of one transfer course  (https://www.luc.edu/quinlan/academics/
studentresources/undergraduate/transfercredit/ ) taken prior to
matriculating at Loyola University Chicago may be allowed to satisfy
major requirements.
Study Abroad
Students planning to study abroad are encouraged to meet with their
academic advisor early in the planning stage. A student will be permitted
to take up to two approved courses in any Quinlan major or minor (and
including BA Economics majors). All study abroad courses must be
reviewed through the Study Abroad Ofﬁce course approval process.
Important Details
A 2.0 average GPA is required for all attempted business courses. (BA in
Economics students must also earn a 2.0 average GPA for all attempted
Economics courses).
Quinlan students are limited to double dipping once (that is, counting
one course twice) between any major or minor combination, regardless
of what program the major or minor is taken in. Non-Quinlan students
are limited to double dipping twice (that is, counting two courses twice)
between business school minors and/or their respective majors.
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Integrating values and ethics into data analysis and information
systems projects and solutions
•Conduct data analysis and information systems focused projects
•Demonstrate competence with SQL and at least one programming
language
•Requirements analysis and speciﬁcation
•Systems analysis and design
•Conceptual and logical data modeling
•Implementation and testing of back and front ends
The Loyola student network provides the student with access to current
systems development environments such as Oracle, Teradata, OLAP/BI
Tools, Data Visualization Tools, VBA, and C#.
Information Systems Minor
Students who wish to expand their skills in information systems
may pursue a minor in this ﬁeld. The minor in information systemsmanagement provides excellent foundational knowledge of applications,
data and systems used in business and nonproﬁt organizations.
The minor in information systems is designed to increase job
opportunities and enhance your career path, regardless of your primary
major. When it is combined with a liberal arts major, students gain a
better understanding of the role of information systems in business and
technology, particularly data management and project management
systems.
Related Programs
Major
•Information Systems and Analytics (BBA)  (p. 777)
Minor
•Accounting Information Systems Minor  (p. 763)
Curriculum
The Information Systems minor requires the following credit hours for
completion:
•Quinlan students require 9 credit hours (see footnote below)
•Non-Quinlan students require 18 credit hours
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesINFS 247Business Information Systems 13
Select two of the following:  16ACCT 201Introductory Accounting IECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics
or ECON 202 Principles of MacroeconomicsMARK 201Principles of MarketingMGMT 201 Managing People and OrganizationsINFS 346Database & Data Warehousing Systems3
ElectivesSelect two of the following:6
INFS 336 Global Perspectives on Digital BusinessINFS 347Systems Analysis & DesignINFS 348 Advanced Data AnalyticsINFS 360Data Visualization & Business IntelligenceINFS 394 Programming in PythonINFS 395Independent Study in Information SystemsINFS 397 VBA Programming with MS OfﬁceINFS 399Special Topics in Information SystemsISSCM 349 Project ManagementISSCM 393Requirements Analysis and CommunicationCOMP 170Introduction to Object-Oriented ProgrammingTotal Hours18
1Quinlan Business Core courses - not included in 9 credits toward minor
for Quinlan students.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework. An individual student's completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as

--- Page 749 ---
780  International Business (BBA)
the start term for the minor. Students should consult their advisor for
assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
FallINFS 247Business Information Systems3 Hours3
Spring200-level Business Principles course3 Hours3
Year 2
FallINFS 346Database & Data Warehousing Systems3 Hours3
Spring200-level Business Principles course3 Hours3
Year 3
FallINFS Elective3 Hours3
SpringINFS Elective3 Hours3 Total Hours18
Important Details
At the discretion of the Quinlan School of Business, a maximum
of one  transfer course  (https://www.luc.edu/quinlan/academics/
studentresources/undergraduate/transfercredit/ ) taken prior to
matriculating at Loyola University Chicago may be allowed to satisfy
minor requirements. A 2.0 average GPA is required for all attempted
business courses. (BA in Economics students must also earn a 2.0
average GPA for all attempted Economics courses).
Quinlan students are limited to double dipping once (that is, counting
one course twice) between any major or minor combination, regardless
of what program the major or minor is taken in. Non-Quinlan students
are limited to double dipping twice (that is, counting two courses twice)
between business school minors and/or their respective majors.
Students planning to study abroad are encouraged to meet with their
academic advisor early in the planning stage. A student will be permitted
to take up to two approved courses in any Quinlan major or minor (and
including BA Economics majors). All study abroad courses must be
reviewed through the Study Abroad Ofﬁce course approval process.
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Learning Outcomes
•Approaches to organizing, analyzing, and visualizing business data
•Integrating values and ethics into data analysis and information
systems projects and solutions•Develop skills in one or more programming languages used in the
current business environment
International Business (BBA)
The BBA in International Business degree at the Quinlan School of
Business prepares students to excel in positions involving global trade
and commerce.  We offer the business and communication skills needed
to compete internationally.
The major combines courses in international accounting, marketing,
economics, ﬁnance, management, supply chain management, some
international political science choices and cultural anthropology choices
with foreign-language study. A study abroad  (http://www.luc.edu/
studyabroad/ ) experience is required for the major.
The program draws on the resources of Chicago, which is a center of
global commerce, including some of the country’s largest venture capital
ﬁrms, the Chicago Board of Trade, Chicago Mercantile Exchange, Chicago
Board Options Exchange, corporate headquarters, and Fortune 500
companies.
Related Programs
Minor
•International Business Minor  (p. 782)
Curriculum
All Quinlan School of Business students must complete the University
Core Curriculum, Business Core Curriculum, and Undergraduate School
of Business program requirements. Students pursuing the BBA degree
in International Business must also complete 18 required hours from the
Major Requirements listed below.
Code Title Hours
Undergraduate Business Program RequirementsCOMM 103Business & Professional Speaking3
MATH 110 Business Precalculus 3
or MATH 118 Precalculus IIETHC 341Ethics in Business3
QUIN 101 Business Learning and Careers 0QUIN 102Financial Literacy and Well-Being1
QUIN 202 Career Preparation 2Writing IntensiveSelect two Writing Intensive courses  16Global AwarenessSelect one of the following:  2Any business course from the International Business Major Group,
or: (p. 781)ANTH 100 Globalization and Local CulturesANTH 102Culture, Society, and DiversityGLST 101 Introduction to Global StudiesPLSC 102International Relations in an Age of GlobalizationBusiness Core CurriculumACCT 201Introductory Accounting I3
ACCT 202 Introductory Accounting II 3ECON 201Principles of Microeconomics3
ECON 202 Principles of Macroeconomics 3

--- Page 750 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 781FINC 301Introductory Business Finance3or FINC 334Principles of Corporate Finance
INFS 247 Business Information Systems 3INFS 343Business Analytics3or ECON 346Econometrics
ISSCM 241 Business Statistics 3
or STAT 103 Fundamentals of StatisticsLREB 315Law and the Regulatory Environment of Business I3
MARK 201 Principles of Marketing 3MGMT 201Managing People and Organizations3
MGMT 304 Strategic Management 3SCMG 232Introduction to Supply Chain Management3
Major RequirementsIBUS 201Introduction to International Business3
IBUS 315 International Management 3Select four of the following:12
ACCT 306 Advanced Financial AccountingECON 323International EconomicsECON 324 International Monetary RelationsECON 325Economics of Growth & DevelopmentENTR 313 Entrepreneurship - Global Opportunity ScanFINC 355International Finance ManagementHRER 329 Global HR and Organizational BehaviorINFS 336Global Perspectives on Digital BusinessMARK 363 International MarketingSCMG 338Global TransportationSPRT 345 Globalization of Sport IndustryANTH 100Globalization and Local Cultures 3ANTH 102 Culture, Society, and Diversity 3PLSC 350Politics of International Economic Relations 3PLSC 362 Politics Developing Societies 3PLSC 363International Politics 3Total Hours75
1One must be a Quinlan course or ENGL 210 Business Writing . Writing
Intensive courses must be taken in separate terms.
2A study abroad experience will also satisfy this requirement.
3Students may choose one non-Quinlan course from this list for the
INTL Business major.
International Business Major Group
Code Title Hours
ACCT 306 Advanced Financial Accounting 3ECON 323International Economics3
ECON 324 International Monetary Relations 3ECON 325Economics of Growth & Development3
FINC 355 International Finance Management 3HRER 329Global HR and Organizational Behavior3
IBUS 201 Introduction to International Business 3IBUS 315International Management3
INFS 336 Global Perspectives on Digital Business 3MARK 363International Marketing3SCMG 338 Global Transportation 3SPRT 345Globalization of Sport Industry3
Language Requirement
In addition, students pursuing the International Business major must
study abroad for at least one full semester and must complete through
the 103-level of a foreign language (or 3 years of the same language
in high school). Study abroad experience does not have to match the
language studied.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
ECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics 3INFS 247Business Information Systems3
MATH 110 
or MATH 118Business Precalculus 
or Precalculus II3QUIN 101Business Learning and Careers0 Hours9
SpringACCT 201Introductory Accounting I3
SCMG 232 Introduction to Supply Chain Management 3IBUS 201Introduction to International Business3QUIN 102Financial Literacy and Well-Being1 Hours10
Year 2
Fall
ACCT 202 Introductory Accounting II 3ISSCM 241 
or STAT 103Business Statistics 
or Fundamentals of Statistics3
MGMT 201 Managing People and Organizations 3QUIN 202Career Preparation2 Hours11
SpringECON 202Principles of Macroeconomics3
MARK 201 Principles of Marketing 3International Business Elective (Track B)3 Hours9
Year 3
FallCOMM 103Business & Professional Speaking3
FINC 301 Introductory Business Finance 3Business Writing Intensive3International Business Elective (Track A)3 Hours12
Spring
INFS 343 
or ECON 346Business Analytics 
or Econometrics3

--- Page 751 ---
782  International Business MinorETHC 341Ethics in Business3International Business Elective (Track B)3 Hours9
Year 4
Fall
LREB 315 Law and the Regulatory Environment of
Business I3Writing Intensive Course3International Business Elective (Track A)3 Hours9
Spring
MGMT 304 Strategic Management 3International Business Elective (Track A or B)3 Hours6 Total Hours75
Specialized Requirements
Transfer Students
At the discretion of the Quinlan School of Business, a maximum
of one transfer course  (https://www.luc.edu/quinlan/academics/
studentresources/undergraduate/transfercredit/ ) taken prior to
matriculating at Loyola University Chicago may be allowed to satisfy
major requirements.
Study Abroad
Students planning to study abroad are encouraged to meet with their
academic advisor early in the planning stage. A student will be permitted
to take up to two approved courses in any Quinlan major or minor (and
including BA Economics majors). All study abroad courses must be
reviewed through the Study Abroad Ofﬁce course approval process.
Important Details
A 2.0 average GPA is required for all attempted business courses. (BA in
Economics students must also earn a 2.0 average GPA for all attempted
Economics courses).
Quinlan students are limited to double dipping once (that is, counting
one course twice) between any major or minor combination, regardless
of what program the major or minor is taken in. Non-Quinlan students
are limited to double dipping twice (that is, counting two courses twice)
between business school minors and/or their respective majors.
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Through project-based learning, students will develop strategic
management skills for multinational enterprises (MNEs)
•Students will understand and apply techniques of international
ﬁnancial management
•With coursework and a study abroad experience, students will
enhance and develop their foreign language skillsInternational Business Minor
Students who wish to expand their skills in international busin ess may
elect to pursue a minor in this ﬁeld.
Related Programs
Major
•International Business (BBA)  (p. 780)
Combined
•Advertising Public Relations/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 972)
•Business Administration (BBA/MBA)  (p. 1033 )
Curriculum
The International Business minor requires the following credit hours for
completion:
•Quinlan students require 12 credit hours (see footnote below):
•Non-Quinlan students require 18 credit hours
Additional courses may be needed to satisfy prerequisites for upper-level
courses. No more than two courses may be applied from any subject
area.
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesIBUS 201Introduction to International Business3
IBUS 315 International Management 3Select two of the following:  16
ACCT 201 Introductory Accounting IECON 201Principles of Microeconomicsor ECON 202Principles of Macroeconomics
INFS 247 Business Information SystemsMARK 201Principles of MarketingMGMT 201 Managing People and OrganizationsElectivesSelect two of the following: 6ACCT 306Advanced Financial AccountingECON 323 International EconomicsECON 324International Monetary RelationsECON 325 Economics of Growth & DevelopmentFINC 355International Finance ManagementHRER 329 Global HR and Organizational BehaviorINFS 336Global Perspectives on Digital BusinessMARK 363 International MarketingSCMG 338Global TransportationSPRT 345 Globalization of Sport IndustryANTH 100Globalization and Local Cultures 2ANTH 102 Culture, Society, and Diversity 2PLSC 350Politics of International Economic Relations 2PLSC 362 Politics Developing Societies 2PLSC 363International Politics 2Total Hours18

--- Page 752 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 783
1Quinlan Business Core courses - not included in 12 credits toward
minor for Quinlan students.
2Students may take no more than one non-Quinlan course toward this
minor.
Minor Language Requirement
The minor also includes a foreign language requirement.
•Option 1) 103 level (or 3 yrs of same language in HS) + Study Abroad
•Option 2) 104 level (or 4 yrs of same language in HS)
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework. An individual student's completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as
the start term for the minor. Students should consult their advisor for
assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall200-level Business Principles course3 Hours3
SpringIBUS 201Introduction to International Business3 Hours3
Year 2
Fall200-level Business Principles course3 Hours3
Year 3
FallIBUS 315International Management3 Hours3
SpringGroup A Elective3 Hours3
Year 4
FallGroup B Elective3 Hours3 Total Hours18
Important Details
At the discretion of the Quinlan School of Business, a maximum
of one  transfer course  (https://www.luc.edu/quinlan/academics/
studentresources/undergraduate/transfercredit/ ) taken prior to
matriculating at Loyola University Chicago may be allowed to satisfy
minor requirements. A 2.0 average GPA is required for all attempted
business courses. (BA in Economics students must also earn a 2.0
average GPA for all attempted Economics courses).
Quinlan students are limited to double dipping once (that is, counting
one course twice) between any major or minor combination, regardless
of what program the major or minor is taken in. Non-Quinlan studentsare limited to double dipping twice (that is, counting two courses twice)
between business school minors and/or their respective majors.
Students planning to study abroad are encouraged to meet with their
academic advisor early in the planning stage. A student will be permitted
to take up to two approved courses in any Quinlan major or minor (and
including BA Economics majors). All study abroad courses must be
reviewed through the Study Abroad Ofﬁce course approval process.
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Learning Outcomes
•Characterizing dimensions of multinational enterprises (MNEs)
•An understanding of differences principal business functions
(ﬁnance, HR, marketing, production, logistics) across international
contexts
•Understanding dynamics of globalization and its impact
•Interconnectedness of global economies
Management (BBA)
Our BBA in management degree program provides students with a
theoretical and practical foundation for effective and responsible
leadership in both entrepreneurial and established business enterprises.
Related Programs
Minor
•Management Minor  (p. 785)
Curriculum
All Quinlan School of Business students must complete the University
Core Curriculum, Business Core Curriculum, and Undergraduate School
of Business program requirements. Students pursuing the BBA degree
in Management must also complete 15 required hours from the Major
Requirements listed below.
Code Title Hours
Undergraduate Business Program RequirementsCOMM 103Business & Professional Speaking3
MATH 110 Business Precalculus 3
or MATH 118 Precalculus IIETHC 341Ethics in Business3
QUIN 101 Business Learning and Careers 0QUIN 102Financial Literacy and Well-Being1
QUIN 202 Career Preparation 2Writing IntensiveSelect two Writing Intensive courses  16Global AwarenessSelect one of the following:  23Any business course from the International Business Major Group,
or: (p. 784)ANTH 100 Globalization and Local CulturesANTH 102Culture, Society, and Diversity

--- Page 753 ---
784  Management (BBA)
ENTR 313 Entrepreneurship - Global Opportunity ScanGLST 101Introduction to Global StudiesPLSC 102 International Relations in an Age of GlobalizationBusiness Core CurriculumACCT 201 Introductory Accounting I 3ACCT 202Introductory Accounting II3
ECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics 3ECON 202Principles of Macroeconomics3
FINC 301 Introductory Business Finance 3
or FINC 334 Principles of Corporate FinanceINFS 247Business Information Systems3
INFS 343 Business Analytics 3
or ECON 346 EconometricsISSCM 241Business Statistics3or STAT 103Fundamentals of Statistics
LREB 315 Law and the Regulatory Environment of Business I 3MARK 201Principles of Marketing3
MGMT 201 Managing People and Organizations 3MGMT 304Strategic Management3
SCMG 232 Introduction to Supply Chain Management 3Major RequirementsMGMT 360 Values-Based Leadership 3HRER 301Principles of HR Management3
Select three of the following: 9IBUS 315International ManagementMGMT 318 Organizational Development and ChangeMGMT 320Leading and Managing TeamsMGMT 331 Managing Nonproﬁt OrganizationsMGMT 335Micro-Enterprise ConsultingMGMT 345 Ethics, Economics & EntrepreneurshipMGMT 395Independent Study in Management (Department
consent required)MGMT 399 Special Topics in Management 3ENVS 363Sustainable Business ManagementTotal Hours75
1One must be a Quinlan course or ENGL 210 Business Writing . Writing
Intensive courses must be taken in separate terms.
2A study abroad experience will also satisfy this requirement.
3Only one MGMT 399 Special Topics in Management  class is allowed to
count for this major.
International Business Major Group
Code Title Hours
ACCT 306 Advanced Financial Accounting 3ECON 323International Economics3
ECON 324 International Monetary Relations 3ECON 325Economics of Growth & Development3
FINC 355 International Finance Management 3HRER 329Global HR and Organizational Behavior3
IBUS 201 Introduction to International Business 3IBUS 201HBusiness Management: A Global and Social
Perspective3IBUS 315 International Management 3INFS 336Global Perspectives on Digital Business3
MARK 363 International Marketing 3SCMG 338Global Supply Chain Management I3
SPRT 345 Globalization of Sport Industry 3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
ECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics 3INFS 247Business Information Systems3
MATH 110 
or MATH 118Business Precalculus 
or Precalculus II3QUIN 101Business Learning and Careers0 Hours9
SpringACCT 201Introductory Accounting I3
ECON 202 Principles of Macroeconomics 3QUIN 102Financial Literacy and Well-Being1 Hours7
Year 2
FallACCT 202Introductory Accounting II3
ISSCM 241 
or STAT 103Business Statistics 
or Fundamentals of Statistics3MGMT 201Managing People and Organizations3QUIN 202Career Preparation2 Hours11
Spring
FINC 301 Introductory Business Finance 3HRER 3013Business Writing Intensive Course3 Hours9
Year 3
Fall
COMM 103 Business & Professional Speaking 3MARK 201Principles of Marketing3
MGMT 360 Values-Based Leadership 3SCMG 232Introduction to Supply Chain Management3 Hours12
SpringETHC 341Ethics in Business3
INFS 343 
or ECON 346Business Analytics 
or Econometrics3MGMT Elective3 Hours9

--- Page 754 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 785
Year 4
FallLREB 315Law and the Regulatory Environment of
Business I3
Writing Intensive Course 3MGMT Elective3 Hours9
SpringMGMT 304Strategic Management3
Global Awareness 3MGMT Elective3 Hours9 Total Hours75
Specialized Requirements
Transfer Students
At the discretion of the Quinlan School of Business, a maximum
of one transfer course  (https://www.luc.edu/quinlan/academics/
studentresources/undergraduate/transfercredit/ ) taken prior to
matriculating at Loyola University Chicago may be allowed to satisfy
major requirements.
Study Abroad
Students planning to study abroad are encouraged to meet with their
academic advisor early in the planning stage. A student will be permitted
to take up to two approved courses in any Quinlan major or minor (and
including BA Economics majors). All study abroad courses must be
reviewed through the Study Abroad Ofﬁce course approval process.
Important Details
A 2.0 average GPA is required for all attempted business courses. (BA in
Economics students must also earn a 2.0 average GPA for all attempted
Economics courses).
Quinlan students are limited to double dipping once (that is, counting
one course twice) between any major or minor combination, regardless
of what program the major or minor is taken in. Non-Quinlan students
are limited to double dipping twice (that is, counting two courses twice)
between business school minors and/or their respective majors.
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Management concepts and theories
•Leadership skills for career success
•Business ethics
•The dynamics of human behavior in the workplace
•Team processes and performance in organizations
•Team-based management and negotiation skillsManagement Minor
Students who wish to expand their skills in management may pursue a
minor in management.
Related Programs
Major
•Business Administration (AA)  (p. 41)
•Management (BA)  (p. 863)
Minor
•Nonproﬁt Management Minor  (p. 789)
Curriculum
The Management minor requires the following credit hours for
completion:
•Quinlan students require 9 credit hours (see footnote below)
•Non-Quinlan students require 18 credit hours
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesMGMT 201Managing People and Organizations 13
Select two of the following:  16ACCT 201Introductory Accounting IECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics
or ECON 202 Principles of MacroeconomicsINFS 247Business Information SystemsMARK 201 Principles of MarketingElectivesSelect three of the following:  29IBUS 315International ManagementMGMT 318 Organizational Development and ChangeMGMT 320Leading and Managing TeamsMGMT 331 Managing Nonproﬁt OrganizationsMGMT 335Micro-Enterprise ConsultingMGMT 345 Ethics, Economics & EntrepreneurshipMGMT 360Values-Based LeadershipMGMT 395 Independent Study in ManagementMGMT 399Special Topics in ManagementHRER 301 Principles of HR ManagementENVS 363Sustainable Business ManagementTotal Hours18
1Quinlan Business Core courses - not included in 9 credits toward minor
for Quinlan students.
2MGMT 304 Strategic Management  and ETHC 341 Ethics in
Business  may not be applied toward this minor.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework. An individual student's completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as

--- Page 755 ---
786  Marketing (BBA)
the start term for the minor. Students should consult their advisor for
assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Spring200-level Business Principles course3 Hours3
Year 2
FallMGMT 201Managing People and Organizations3 Hours3
Spring200-level Business Principles course3 Hours3
Year 3
FallMGMT Elective3 Hours3
SpringMGMT Elective3 Hours3
Year 4
FallMGMT Elective3 Hours3 Total Hours18
Important Details
At the discretion of the Quinlan School of Business, a maximum
of one  transfer course  (https://www.luc.edu/quinlan/academics/
studentresources/undergraduate/transfercredit/ ) taken prior to
matriculating at Loyola University Chicago may be allowed to satisfy
minor requirements. A 2.0 average GPA is required for all attempted
business courses. (BA in Economics students must also earn a 2.0
average GPA for all attempted Economics courses).
Quinlan students are limited to double dipping once (that is, counting
one course twice) between any major or minor combination, regardless
of what program the major or minor is taken in. Non-Quinlan students
are limited to double dipping twice (that is, counting two courses twice)
between business school minors and/or their respective majors.
Students planning to study abroad are encouraged to meet with their
academic advisor early in the planning stage. A student will be permitted
to take up to two approved courses in any Quinlan major or minor (and
including BA Economics majors). All study abroad courses must be
reviewed through the Study Abroad Ofﬁce course approval process.
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.Learning Outcomes
•Management concepts and theories
•Leadership skills for career success
•Appreciation for applications of ethics to business decisions
•Comprehending dynamics of human behavior in the workplace
Marketing (BBA)
Marketing involves creating, communicating, delivering, and exchanging
value, and can take various forms. From an Instagram influencer’s posts
to a vendor in an open market—marketing shapes our everyday lives.
The BBA in Marketing degree program at the Quinlan School of Business
concentrates on developing difference-makers who value diversity, equity,
inclusion, sustainability, and ethics in the aim to use marketing as a force
for good in society.
Related Programs
Minor
•Marketing Minor  (p. 788)
Curriculum
All Quinlan School of Business students must complete the University
Core Curriculum, Business Core Curriculum, and Undergraduate School
of Business program requirements. Students pursuing the BBA degree
in Marketing must also complete 15 required hours from the Major
Requirements listed below.
Code Title Hours
Undergraduate Business Program RequirementsCOMM 103Business & Professional Speaking3
MATH 110 Business Precalculus 3
or MATH 118 Precalculus IIETHC 341Ethics in Business3
QUIN 101 Business Learning and Careers 0QUIN 102Financial Literacy and Well-Being1
QUIN 202 Career Preparation 2Writing IntensiveSelect two Writing Intensive courses  16Global AwarenessSelect one of the following:  23Any business course from the International Business Major Group,
or: (p. 787)ANTH 100 Globalization and Local CulturesANTH 102Culture, Society, and DiversityENTR 313 Entrepreneurship - Global Opportunity ScanGLST 101Introduction to Global StudiesPLSC 102 International Relations in an Age of GlobalizationBusiness Core CurriculumACCT 201 Introductory Accounting I 3ACCT 202Introductory Accounting II3
ECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics 3ECON 202Principles of Macroeconomics3
FINC 301 Introductory Business Finance 3
or FINC 334 Principles of Corporate Finance

--- Page 756 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 787INFS 247Business Information Systems3
INFS 343 Business Analytics 3
or ECON 346 EconometricsISSCM 241Business Statistics3or STAT 103Fundamentals of Statistics
LREB 315 Law and the Regulatory Environment of Business I 3MARK 201Principles of Marketing3
MGMT 201 Managing People and Organizations 3MGMT 304Strategic Management3
SCMG 232 Introduction to Supply Chain Management 3Major RequirementsMARK 310 Consumer Behavior 3MARK 311Marketing Research3
MARK 390 Marketing Strategies 3Select two of the following:6
MARK 312 Gender and MarketingMARK 320Marketing for Environmental SustainabilityMARK 323 Personal SellingMARK 334Services MarketingMARK 360 Retailing ManagementMARK 363International MarketingMARK 367 Multicultural MarketingMARK 370Political MarketingMARK 373 Integrated Marketing CommunicationsMARK 380Digital MarketingMARK 395 Independent StudyMARK 399Special Topics in Marketing 3SPRT 365Fundamentals Sport MarketingTotal Hours75
1One must be a Quinlan course or ENGL 210 Business Writing . Writing
Intensive courses must be taken in separate terms.
2A study abroad experience will also satisfy this requirement.
3Only one MARK 399 Special Topics in Marketing  class is allowed to
count for this major.
International Business Major Group
Code Title Hours
ACCT 306 Advanced Financial Accounting 3ECON 323International Economics3
ECON 324 International Monetary Relations 3ECON 325Economics of Growth & Development3
FINC 355 International Finance Management 3HRER 329Global HR and Organizational Behavior3
IBUS 201 Introduction to International Business 3IBUS 201HBusiness Management: A Global and Social
Perspective3
IBUS 315 International Management 3INFS 336Global Perspectives on Digital Business3
MARK 363 International Marketing 3SCMG 338Global Supply Chain Management I3
SPRT 345 Globalization of Sport Industry 3Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
ECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics 3INFS 247Business Information Systems3
MATH 110 
or MATH 118Business Precalculus 
or Precalculus II3QUIN 101Business Learning and Careers0 Hours9
SpringACCT 201Introductory Accounting I3
ECON 202 Principles of Macroeconomics 3QUIN 102Financial Literacy and Well-Being1 Hours7
Year 2
FallACCT 202Introductory Accounting II3
ISSCM 241 
or STAT 103Business Statistics 
or Fundamentals of Statistics3MARK 201Principles of Marketing3QUIN 202Career Preparation2 Hours11
Spring
MGMT 201 Managing People and Organizations 3SCMG 232Introduction to Supply Chain Management3Business Writing Intensive Course3 Hours9
Year 3
Fall
COMM 103 Business & Professional Speaking 3FINC 301Introductory Business Finance3MARK 310Consumer Behavior3 Hours9
Spring
ETHC 341 Ethics in Business 3INFS 343 
or ECON 346Business Analytics 
or Econometrics3
MARK 311 Marketing Research 3MARK Elective3 Hours12
Year 4
FallLREB 315Law and the Regulatory Environment of
Business I3
MARK 390 Marketing Strategies 3

--- Page 757 ---
788  Marketing MinorWriting Intensive Course3 Hours9
SpringMGMT 304Strategic Management3
Global Awareness 3MARK Elective3 Hours9 Total Hours75
Specialized Requirements
Transfer Students
At the discretion of the Quinlan School of Business, a maximum
of one transfer course  (https://www.luc.edu/quinlan/academics/
studentresources/undergraduate/transfercredit/ ) taken prior to
matriculating at Loyola University Chicago may be allowed to satisfy
major requirements.
Study Abroad
Students planning to study abroad are encouraged to meet with their
academic advisor early in the planning stage. A student will be permitted
to take up to two approved courses in any Quinlan major or minor (and
including BA Economics majors). All study abroad courses must be
reviewed through the Study Abroad Ofﬁce course approval process.
Important Details
A 2.0 average GPA is required for all attempted business courses. (BA in
Economics students must also earn a 2.0 average GPA for all attempted
Economics courses).
Quinlan students are limited to double dipping once (that is, counting
one course twice) between any major or minor combination, regardless
of what program the major or minor is taken in. Non-Quinlan students
are limited to double dipping twice (that is, counting two courses twice)
between business school minors and/or their respective majors.
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Principles of marketing
•Why and how consumers behave
•How to incorporate social justice and a stakeholder approach in all
decisions
•Interdependent, empathic, and global solutions
•How to understand, formulate, integrate, and execute all elements of
a marketing plan
•Role and application of digital tools and analytics within a ma rketing
plan
•Appropriate research techniques to investigate consumer, market,
social, and environmental trends
•Role and application of strategic marketing•Field-speciﬁc knowledge and skills in sales, branding, market
research, and integrated marketing communications
Marketing Minor
Students who wish to expand their skills in marketing may pursue a
minor in this ﬁeld.
Related Programs
Major
•Marketing (BBA)  (p. 786)
Combined
•Advertising Public Relations/Marketing (BA/MSM)  (p. 978)
•Business/Marketing (BBA/MSM)  (p. 1047 )
Curriculum
The Marketing minor requires the following credit hours for completion:
•Quinlan students require 9 credit hours (see footnote below)
•Non-Quinlan students require 18 credit hours
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesMARK 201Principles of Marketing 13
Select two of the following:  16ACCT 201Introductory Accounting IECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics
or ECON 202 Principles of MacroeconomicsINFS 247Business Information SystemsMGMT 201 Managing People and OrganizationsElectivesSelect three of the following: 9MARK 310Consumer BehaviorMARK 311 Marketing ResearchMARK 312Gender and MarketingMARK 320 Marketing for Environmental SustainabilityMARK 323Personal SellingMARK 334 Services MarketingMARK 360Retailing ManagementMARK 363 International MarketingMARK 367Multicultural MarketingMARK 370 Political MarketingMARK 373Integrated Marketing CommunicationsMARK 380 Digital MarketingMARK 390Marketing StrategiesMARK 395 Independent StudyMARK 399Special Topics in MarketingSPRT 365Fundamentals Sport MarketingTotal Hours18
1Quinlan Business Core courses - not included in 9 credits toward minor
for Quinlan students.

--- Page 758 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 789
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework. An individual student's completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as
the start term for the minor. Students should consult their advisor for
assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Spring200-level Business Principles course3 Hours3
Year 2
FallMARK 201Principles of Marketing3 Hours3
Spring200-level Business Principles course3 Hours3
Year 3
FallMARK Elective3 Hours3
SpringMARK Elective3 Hours3
Year 4
FallMARK Elective3 Hours3 Total Hours18
Important Details
At the discretion of the Quinlan School of Business, a maximum
of one  transfer course  (https://www.luc.edu/quinlan/academics/
studentresources/undergraduate/transfercredit/ ) taken prior to
matriculating at Loyola University Chicago may be allowed to satisfy
minor requirements. A 2.0 average GPA is required for all attempted
business courses. (BA in Economics students must also earn a 2.0
average GPA for all attempted Economics courses).
Quinlan students are limited to double dipping once (that is, counting
one course twice) between any major or minor combination, regardless
of what program the major or minor is taken in. Non-Quinlan students
are limited to double dipping twice (that is, counting two courses twice)
between business school minors and/or their respective majors.
Students planning to study abroad are encouraged to meet with their
academic advisor early in the planning stage. A student will be permitted
to take up to two approved courses in any Quinlan major or minor (and
including BA Economics majors). All study abroad courses must be
reviewed through the Study Abroad Ofﬁce course approval process.Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Learning Outcomes
•Understanding models of consumer behavior and market research
•Developing and executing a marketing strategy
•Traditional and digital marketing approaches
•Marketing for the greater good, with an emphasis on ethics and social
justice
Nonproﬁt Management Minor
The Nonproﬁt Management minor supports students in gaining the
knowledge, skills, and values to be future leaders in the social sector,
including at nonproﬁt institutions, philanthropies, and government
agencies. Students will:
•Explore the principles and practices of successful leadership
•Examine how nonproﬁts develop their missions, strategic plans,
fundraising initiatives, and program models
•Develop economic analysis and entrepreneurial skills that they can
apply in nonproﬁt settings
•Participate in an internship at a nonproﬁt organization that provides
hands-on exposure and experience in management
Related Programs
Major
•Management (BBA)  (p. 783)
•Supply Chain Management (BBA)  (p. 793)
Minor
•Management Minor  (p. 785)
Curriculum
The Nonproﬁt Management minor requires the following credit hours for
completion:
•Quinlan students require 12 credit hours (see footnotes below)
•Non-Quinlan students require 18 credit hours
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesECON 201Principles of Microeconomics 13
ENTR 201 Introduction to Entrepreneurship 3MGMT 201Managing People and Organizations 13
MGMT 331 Managing Nonproﬁt Organizations 3EXPL 390Internship Seminar: Organizational Change and
Community Leadership3
ElectivesSelect one of the following:3
ACCT 201 Introductory Accounting I 2MARK 201Principles of Marketing 2ECON 202 Principles of Macroeconomics 2INFS 247Business Information Systems 2

--- Page 759 ---
790  Sport Management (BBA)
ISSCM 241 Business Statistics 2ENTR 311Social EntrepreneurshipENVS 284 Environmental JusticeENVS 363Sustainable Business ManagementENVS 364SOWK 307Social Work Policy and Community InterventionTotal Hours18
1Quinlan Business Core course - not included in 12 credits toward minor
for Quinlan students.
2Quinlan Business Core course - may not be applied as an elective
toward this minor for Quinlan students.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework. An individual student's completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as
the start term for the minor. Students should consult their advisor for
assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
FallECON 201Principles of Microeconomics3 Hours3
SpringENTR 201Essentials of Entrepreneurship3 Hours3
Year 2
FallMGMT 201Managing People and Organizations3 Hours3
Year 3
FallMGMT 331Managing Nonproﬁt Organizations3 Hours3
SpringEXPL 390Internship Seminar: Organizational Change
and Community Leadership3 Hours3
Year 4
FallElective3 Hours3 Total Hours18
Important Details
At the discretion of the Quinlan School of Business, a maximum
of one  transfer course  (https://www.luc.edu/quinlan/academics/
studentresources/undergraduate/transfercredit/ ) taken prior to
matriculating at Loyola University Chicago may be allowed to satisfy
minor requirements. A 2.0 average GPA is required for all attempted
business courses. (BA in Economics students must also earn a 2.0
average GPA for all attempted Economics courses).Quinlan students are limited to double dipping once (that is, counting
one course twice) between any major or minor combination, regardless
of what program the major or minor is taken in. Non-Quinlan students
are limited to double dipping twice (that is, counting two courses twice)
between business school minors and/or their respective majors.
Students planning to study abroad are encouraged to meet with their
academic advisor early in the planning stage. A student will be permitted
to take up to two approved courses in any Quinlan major or minor (and
including BA Economics majors). All study abroad courses must be
reviewed through the Study Abroad Ofﬁce course approval process.
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Learning Outcomes
•Organization and operation of small and large nonproﬁt organizations
•Developing and executing an idea for a new organization
•Role of nonproﬁts in social change and community advancement
•Social entrepreneurship and social justice
Sport Management (BBA)
The BBA in Sport Management degree program at the Quinlan School
of Business combines comprehensive business skills with an in-depth
understanding of the sport industry. The sport management program
focuses on the essentials in sport ﬁnance, facility management, and
marketing, as well as on the economics of this dynamic industry.
Related Programs
Minor
•Sport Management Minor  (p. 792)
Curriculum
All Quinlan School of Business students must complete the University
Core Curriculum, Business Core Curriculum, and Undergraduate School
of Business program requirements. Students pursuing the BBA degree in
Sport Management must also complete 18 required hours from the Major
Requirements listed below.
Code Title Hours
Undergraduate Business Program RequirementsCOMM 103Business & Professional Speaking3
MATH 110 Business Precalculus 3
or MATH 118 Precalculus IIETHC 341Ethics in Business3
QUIN 101 Business Learning and Careers 0QUIN 102Financial Literacy and Well-Being1
QUIN 202 Career Preparation 2Writing IntensiveSelect two Writing Intensive courses  16Global AwarenessSelect one of the following:  23Any business course from the International Business Major Group,
or: (p. 791)

--- Page 760 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 791
ANTH 100 Globalization and Local CulturesANTH 102Culture, Society, and DiversityENTR 313 Entrepreneurship - Global Opportunity ScanGLST 101Introduction to Global StudiesPLSC 102 International Relations in an Age of GlobalizationBusiness Core CurriculumACCT 201 Introductory Accounting I 3ACCT 202Introductory Accounting II3
ECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics 3ECON 202Principles of Macroeconomics3
FINC 301 Introductory Business Finance 3
or FINC 334 Principles of Corporate FinanceINFS 247Business Information Systems3
INFS 343 Business Analytics 3
or ECON 346 EconometricsISSCM 241Business Statistics3or STAT 103Fundamentals of Statistics
LREB 315 Law and the Regulatory Environment of Business I 3MARK 201Principles of Marketing3
MGMT 201 Managing People and Organizations 3MGMT 304Strategic Management3
SCMG 232 Introduction to Supply Chain Management 3Major RequirementsSPRT 130 The Business of Sports 3Select ﬁve of the following:15
SPRT 320 Social Aspects of Sport ManagementSPRT 335Fundamentals of Sport FinanceSPRT 339 Sports Facility Management and OperationsSPRT 345Globalization of Sport IndustrySPRT 365 Fundamentals Sport MarketingSPRT 375Sport MediaSPRT 380 Legal Aspects in Sport ManagementSPRT 385Sport AnalyticsSPRT 395 Independent StudySPRT 399Special Topics in Sport Management 3Total Hours78
1One must be a Quinlan course or ENGL 210 Business Writing . Writing
Intensive courses must be taken in separate terms.
2A study abroad experience will also satisfy this requirement.
3Only one SPRT 399 Special Topics in Sport Management  class is
allowed to count for this major.
International Business Major Group
Code Title Hours
ACCT 306 Advanced Financial Accounting 3ECON 323International Economics3
ECON 324 International Monetary Relations 3ECON 325Economics of Growth & Development3
FINC 355 International Finance Management 3HRER 329Global HR and Organizational Behavior3
IBUS 201 Introduction to International Business 3IBUS 201HBusiness Management: A Global and Social
Perspective3
IBUS 315 International Management 3INFS 336Global Perspectives on Digital Business3
MARK 363 International Marketing 3SCMG 338Global Supply Chain Management I3
SPRT 345 Globalization of Sport Industry 3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
ECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics 3INFS 247Business Information Systems3
MATH 110 
or MATH 118Business Precalculus 
or Precalculus II3QUIN 101Business Learning and Careers0 Hours9
SpringACCT 201Introductory Accounting I3
ECON 202 Principles of Macroeconomics 3SPRT 130The Business of Sports3QUIN 102Financial Literacy and Well-Being1 Hours10
Year 2
Fall
ACCT 202 Introductory Accounting II 3ISSCM 241 
or STAT 103Business Statistics 
or Fundamentals of Statistics3
MARK 201 Principles of Marketing 3QUIN 202Career Preparation2 Hours11
SpringMGMT 201Managing People and Organizations3
SCMG 232 Introduction to Supply Chain Management 3Business Writing Intensive Course3 Hours9
Year 3
FallCOMM 103Business & Professional Speaking3
FINC 301 Introductory Business Finance 3SPRT Elective3SPRT Elective3 Hours12
Spring
ETHC 341 Ethics in Business 3INFS 343 
or ECON 346Business Analytics 
or Econometrics3

--- Page 761 ---
792  Sport Management MinorSPRT Elective3 Hours9
Year 4
Fall
LREB 315 Law and the Regulatory Environment of
Business I3Writing Intensive Course3SPRT Elective3 Hours9
Spring
MGMT 304 Strategic Management 3Global Awareness3SPRT Elective3 Hours9 Total Hours78
Specialized Requirements
Transfer Students
At the discretion of the Quinlan School of Business, a maximum
of one transfer course  (https://www.luc.edu/quinlan/academics/
studentresources/undergraduate/transfercredit/ ) taken prior to
matriculating at Loyola University Chicago may be allowed to satisfy
major requirements.
Study Abroad
Students planning to study abroad are encouraged to meet with their
academic advisor early in the planning stage. A student will be permitted
to take up to two approved courses in any Quinlan major or minor (and
including BA Economics majors). All study abroad courses must be
reviewed through the Study Abroad Ofﬁce course approval process.
Important Details
A 2.0 average GPA is required for all attempted business courses. (BA in
Economics students must also earn a 2.0 average GPA for all attempted
Economics courses).
Quinlan students are limited to double dipping once (that is, counting
one course twice) between any major or minor combination, regardless
of what program the major or minor is taken in. Non-Quinlan students
are limited to double dipping twice (that is, counting two courses twice)
between business school minors and/or their respective majors.
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•How the economy impacts every facet of sport organizations and the
sport industry
•Leadership and ethical aspects of sport management
•Management strategies for today's sport business challenges.
•Sport facility management
•Sport marketing•Legal areas relevant to the operation of sport programs and
organizations
Sport Management Minor
Students who wish to expand their skills in sport management may
pursue a minor in this ﬁeld.
Related Programs
Major
•Management (BBA)  (p. 783)
•Sport Management (BBA)  (p. 790)
•Supply Chain Management (BBA)  (p. 793)
Curriculum
The Sport Management minor requires the following credit hours for
completion:
•Quinlan students require 12 credit hours (see footnote below)
•Non-Quinlan students require 18 credit hours
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesSPRT 130The Business of Sports3
Select two of the following:  16ACCT 201Introductory Accounting IECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics
or ECON 202 Principles of MacroeconomicsINFS 247Business Information SystemsMGMT 201 Managing People and OrganizationsMARK 201Principles of MarketingElectivesSelect three of the following:9
SPRT 320 Social Aspects of Sport ManagementSPRT 335Fundamentals of Sport FinanceSPRT 339 Sports Facility Management and OperationsSPRT 345Globalization of Sport IndustrySPRT 365 Fundamentals Sport MarketingSPRT 375Sport MediaSPRT 380 Legal Aspects in Sport ManagementSPRT 385Sport AnalyticsSPRT 395 Independent StudySPRT 399Special Topics in Sport ManagementTotal Hours18
1Quinlan Business Core courses - not included in 12 credits toward
minor for Quinlan students.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework. An individual student's completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as
the start term for the minor. Students should consult their advisor for
assistance with course selection.

--- Page 762 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 793
Course Title Hours
Year 1
SpringSPRT 130The Business of Sports3 Hours3
Year 2
Fall200-level Business Principles course3 Hours3
Spring200-level Business Principles course3 Hours3
Year 3
FallSPRT Elective3 Hours3
SpringSPRT Elective3 Hours3
Year 4
FallSPRT Elective3 Hours3 Total Hours18
Important Details
At the discretion of the Quinlan School of Business, a maximum
of one  transfer course  (https://www.luc.edu/quinlan/academics/
studentresources/undergraduate/transfercredit/ ) taken prior to
matriculating at Loyola University Chicago may be allowed to satisfy
minor requirements. A 2.0 average GPA is required for all attempted
business courses. (BA in Economics students must also earn a 2.0
average GPA for all attempted Economics courses).
Quinlan students are limited to double dipping once (that is, counting
one course twice) between any major or minor combination, regardless
of what program the major or minor is taken in. Non-Quinlan students
are limited to double dipping twice (that is, counting two courses twice)
between business school minors and/or their respective majors.
Students planning to study abroad are encouraged to meet with their
academic advisor early in the planning stage. A student will be permitted
to take up to two approved courses in any Quinlan major or minor (and
including BA Economics majors). All study abroad courses must be
reviewed through the Study Abroad Ofﬁce course approval process.
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Learning Outcomes
•Contrasting structures and operations of sports organizations
•Principal business functions (e.g., ﬁnance, marketing, management,
data analysis) in sports-related organizations•Legal, ethical, and social issues in sports and sports business
•Globalization in sports and related industries
Supply Chain Management (BBA)
Achieve a sustainable competitive advantage for your organization
by learning how to manage its supply chains. Effective supply chain
management helps provide quality products, outstanding customer
service, and effective cost control.
Related Programs
Minor
•Supply Chain Management Minor  (p. 795)
Curriculum
All Quinlan School of Business students must complete the University
Core Curriculum, Business Core Curriculum, and Undergraduate School
of Business program requirements. Students pursuing the BBA degree
in Supply Chain Management must also complete 18 required hours
from the Major Requirements listed below and the zero-credit SCMG 396
Supply Chain Seminar .
Code Title Hours
Undergraduate Business Program RequirementsCOMM 103Business & Professional Speaking3
MATH 110 Business Precalculus 3
or MATH 118 Precalculus IIETHC 341Ethics in Business3
QUIN 101 Business Learning and Careers 0QUIN 102Financial Literacy and Well-Being1
QUIN 202 Career Preparation 2Writing IntensiveSelect two Writing Intensive courses  16Global AwarenessSelect one of the following:  23Any business course from the International Business Major Group,
or: (p. 794)ANTH 100 Globalization and Local CulturesANTH 102Culture, Society, and DiversityENTR 313 Entrepreneurship - Global Opportunity ScanGLST 101Introduction to Global StudiesPLSC 102 International Relations in an Age of GlobalizationBusiness Core CurriculumACCT 201 Introductory Accounting I 3ACCT 202Introductory Accounting II3
ECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics 3ECON 202Principles of Macroeconomics3
FINC 301 Introductory Business Finance 3
or FINC 334 Principles of Corporate FinanceINFS 247Business Information Systems3
INFS 343 Business Analytics 3
or ECON 346 EconometricsISSCM 241Business Statistics3or STAT 103Fundamentals of Statistics
LREB 315 Law and the Regulatory Environment of Business I 3

--- Page 763 ---
794  Supply Chain Management (BBA)MARK 201Principles of Marketing3
MGMT 201 Managing People and Organizations 3MGMT 304Strategic Management3
SCMG 232 Introduction to Supply Chain Management 3Major RequirementsSCMG 338 Global Supply Chain Management I 33SCMG 340Global Supply Chain Management II3
SCMG 396 Supply Chain Seminar 0Select at least three of the following:9
SCMG 337 Fundamentals of Lean ProductionSCMG 341Quality Management & Continuing ImprovementSCMG 342 Supply Chain ModelingSCMG 346Sustainable Supply ChainSCMG 383 Management of Service OperationsSelect no more than one of the following, or a fourth SCMG course
from the above options:3
INFS 347 Systems Analysis & DesignISSCM 349Project ManagementISSCM 393 Requirements Analysis and CommunicationSCMG 395Independent Study in Operations ManagementSCMG 399Special Topics in Operations Management 4Total Hours78
1One must be a Quinlan course or ENGL 210 Business Writing . Writing
Intensive courses must be taken in separate terms.
2A study abroad experience will also satisfy this requirement.
3This course satisﬁes the Global Awareness requirement.
4Only one SCMG 399 Special Topics in Operations Management  class is
allowed to count for this major.
International Business Major Group
Code Title Hours
ACCT 306 Advanced Financial Accounting 3ECON 323International Economics3
ECON 324 International Monetary Relations 3ECON 325Economics of Growth & Development3
FINC 355 International Finance Management 3HRER 329Global HR and Organizational Behavior3
IBUS 201 Introduction to International Business 3IBUS 201HBusiness Management: A Global and Social
Perspective3
IBUS 315 International Management 3INFS 336Global Perspectives on Digital Business3
MARK 363 International Marketing 3SCMG 338Global Supply Chain Management I3
SPRT 345 Globalization of Sport Industry 3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
ECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics 3INFS 247Business Information Systems3
MATH 110 
or MATH 118Business Precalculus 
or Precalculus II3QUIN 101Business Learning and Careers0 Hours9
SpringECON 202Principles of Macroeconomics3
SCMG 232 Introduction to Supply Chain Management 3QUIN 102Financial Literacy and Well-Being1 Hours7
Year 2
FallACCT 201Introductory Accounting I3
ISSCM 241 
or STAT 103Business Statistics 
or Fundamentals of Statistics3SCMG 338Global Transportation3
SCMG 396 Supply Chain Seminar 0QUIN 202Career Preparation2 Hours11
SpringACCT 202Introductory Accounting II3
MGMT 201 Managing People and Organizations 3SCMG 340Global Sourcing3Business Writing Intensive Course3 Hours12
Year 3
Fall
MARK 201 Principles of Marketing 3COMM 103Business & Professional Speaking3SCMG Elective3 Hours9
Spring
ETHC 341 Ethics in Business 3FINC 301Introductory Business Finance3
INFS 343 
or ECON 346Business Analytics 
or Econometrics3SCMG Elective3 Hours12
Year 4
FallLREB 315Law and the Regulatory Environment of
Business I3
Writing Intensive Course 3SCMG Elective3 Hours9
SpringMGMT 304Strategic Management3

--- Page 764 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 795SCMG Elective3 Hours6 Total Hours75
Specialized Requirements
Transfer Students
At the discretion of the Quinlan School of Business, a maximum
of one transfer course  (https://www.luc.edu/quinlan/academics/
studentresources/undergraduate/transfercredit/ ) taken prior to
matriculating at Loyola University Chicago may be allowed to satisfy
major requirements.
Study Abroad
Students planning to study abroad are encouraged to meet with their
academic advisor early in the planning stage. A student will be permitted
to take up to two approved courses in any Quinlan major or minor (and
including BA Economics majors). All study abroad courses must be
reviewed through the Study Abroad Ofﬁce course approval process.
Important Details
A 2.0 average GPA is required for all attempted business courses. (BA in
Economics students must also earn a 2.0 average GPA for all attempted
Economics courses).
Quinlan students are limited to double dipping once (that is, counting
one course twice) between any major or minor combination, regardless
of what program the major or minor is taken in. Non-Quinlan students
are limited to double dipping twice (that is, counting two courses twice)
between business school minors and/or their respective majors.
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Operational methodologies
•Data analytics
•Business ethics
•Process design and improvement
•Transportation management
•Inventory management
•Purchasing management
Supply Chain Management Minor
Students who wish to expand their skills in supply chain management
may pursue a minor in this ﬁeld.
Related Programs
Major
•Supply Chain Management (BBA)  (p. 793)Combined
•Business/Supply Chain Management (BBA/MSSCM)  (p. 1050 )
•Supply Chain Management (MBA/MSSCM)  (p. 2263 )
Curriculum
The Supply Chain Management minor requires the following credit hours
for completion:
•Quinlan students require 9 credit hours (see footnote below)
•Non-Quinlan students require 18 credit hours
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesSCMG 232Introduction to Supply Chain Management 13
SCMG 338 Global Supply Chain Management I 3SCMG 340Global Supply Chain Management II3
Select two of the following:  16ACCT 201Introductory Accounting IECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics
or ECON 202 Principles of MacroeconomicsINFS 247Business Information SystemsMARK 201 Principles of MarketingMGMT 201Managing People and OrganizationsElectivesSelect one of the following:3
SCMG 337 Fundamentals of Lean ProductionSCMG 341Quality Management & Continuing ImprovementSCMG 342 Supply Chain ModelingSCMG 346Sustainable Supply ChainSCMG 383 Management of Service OperationsSCMG 395Independent Study in Operations ManagementSCMG 399Special Topics in Operations ManagementTotal Hours18
1Quinlan Business Core courses - not included in 9 credits toward minor
for Quinlan students.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework. An individual student's completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as
the start term for the minor. Students should consult their advisor for
assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
SpringSCMG 232Introduction to Supply Chain Management3 Hours3
Year 2
Fall
SCMG 338 Global Transportation 3200-level Business Principles course3 Hours6

--- Page 765 ---
796  Sustainability Management Minor
SpringSCMG 340Global Sourcing3200-level Business Principles course3 Hours6
Year 3
FallSCMG Elective3 Hours3 Total Hours18
Important Details
At the discretion of the Quinlan School of Business, a maximum
of one  transfer course  (https://www.luc.edu/quinlan/academics/
studentresources/undergraduate/transfercredit/ ) taken prior to
matriculating at Loyola University Chicago may be allowed to satisfy
minor requirements. A 2.0 average GPA is required for all attempted
business courses. (BA in Economics students must also earn a 2.0
average GPA for all attempted Economics courses).
Quinlan students are limited to double dipping once (that is, counting
one course twice) between any major or minor combination, regardless
of what program the major or minor is taken in. Non-Quinlan students
are limited to double dipping twice (that is, counting two courses twice)
between business school minors and/or their respective majors.
Students planning to study abroad are encouraged to meet with their
academic advisor early in the planning stage. A student will be permitted
to take up to two approved courses in any Quinlan major or minor (and
including BA Economics majors). All study abroad courses must be
reviewed through the Study Abroad Ofﬁce course approval process.
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Learning Outcomes
•Operational and analytical methods
•Ethics and the supply chain
•Process design and improvement
•Managing purchasing, logistics, and inventory
Sustainability Management Minor
Students who wish to learn how to manage for people, planet, an d proﬁt
may pursue the Sustainability Management minor.
This minor provides foundational knowledge of the applications of
sustainability in management, marketing, and economics. Students will:
•Learn the social, environmental, and economic impacts of current
business systems and consumer society
•Explore alternatives to the current system
•Gain an understanding of the scientiﬁc, moral, and business case for
sustainability
•Learn standards and metrics for gauging sustainability impactsRelated Programs
Major
•Management (BBA)  (p. 783)
Minor
•Management Minor  (p. 785)
Combined
•Advertising Public Relations/Environmental Science and
Sustainability (BA/MS)  (p. 963)
Curriculum
The Sustainability Management minor requires the following credit hours
for completion:
•Quinlan students require 15 credit hours (see footnote below)
•Non-Quinlan students require 21 credit hours
Additional courses may be needed to satisfy prerequisites for upper-level
courses.
Code Title Hours
PrerequisitesECON 201Principles of Microeconomics 13
ENVS 283 Environmental Sustainability 3MGMT 201Managing People and Organizations 13
Required Advanced CoursesENVS 335Ecological Economics3
ENVS 363 Sustainable Business Management 3Advanced Elective CoursesSelect two of the following: 6ECON 328Environmental EconomicsENVS 332ENVS 333Introduction to the Circular EconomyENVS 336 Design for Circular & Sustainable BusinessENVS 364MARK 320 Marketing for Environmental SustainabilitySCMG 346Sustainable Supply ChainNo more than one of the following:MGMT 399Special Topics in Management (on a sustainable
business topic and with pre-approval)ENVS 398Special Topics (on a sustainable business topic
and with pre-approval)Total Hours21
1Quinlan Business Core course - not included in 15 credits toward minor
for Quinlan students.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework. An individual student's completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as
the start term for the minor. Students should consult their advisor for
assistance with course selection.

--- Page 766 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 797
Course Title Hours
Year 1
FallECON 201Principles of Microeconomics3 Hours3
Year 2
FallMGMT 201Managing People and Organizations3 Hours3
SpringENVS 283Environmental Sustainability3 Hours3
Year 3
FallENVS 335Ecological Economics3 Hours3
SpringENVS 363Sustainable Business Management3 Hours3
Year 4
FallAdvanced Elective3 Hours3
SpringAdvanced Elective3 Hours3 Total Hours21
Important Details
At the discretion of the Quinlan School of Business, a maximum
of one  transfer course  (https://www.luc.edu/quinlan/academics/
studentresources/undergraduate/transfercredit/ ) taken prior to
matriculating at Loyola University Chicago may be allowed to satisfy
minor requirements. A 2.0 average GPA is required for all attempted
business courses. (BA in Economics students must also earn a 2.0
average GPA for all attempted Economics courses).
Quinlan students are limited to double dipping once (that is, counting
one course twice) between any major or minor combination, regardless
of what program the major or minor is taken in. Non-Quinlan students
are limited to double dipping twice (that is, counting two courses twice)
between business school minors and/or their respective majors.
Students planning to study abroad are encouraged to meet with their
academic advisor early in the planning stage. A student will be permitted
to take up to two approved courses in any Quinlan major or minor (and
including BA Economics majors). All study abroad courses must be
reviewed through the Study Abroad Ofﬁce course approval process.
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.Learning Outcomes
•Determining companies’ role in doing business for people, the planet,
and proﬁt
•Potential positive and negative impact of business on the
environment
•The scientiﬁc, ethical, and business cases for pursuing sustainable
business
•How principles of sustainability take shape in speciﬁc business
functions, such as marketing and the supply chain
U.S./Europe Double Degree (BBA)
The U.S./Europe Double Degree in Business is an immersive experience
that will widen your marketability and extend your career possibilities in
the U.S. and Europe.
As part of the program, you’ll study two semesters in Spain, one semester
in Rome, and your remaining semesters in Chicago.
Current Loyola freshmen are encouraged to apply to the program.
Related Programs
Major
•International Business (BBA)  (p. 780)
Minor
•International Business Minor  (p. 782)
Combined
•Advertising Public Relations/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 972)
Curriculum
The courses listed below are for students who were admitted prior to
Fall 2023.  Students need to pay particular attention to the Suggested
Sequence of Courses  (p. 798) as the program is on a cohort model.
Code Title Hours
Undergraduate Business Program RequirementsCOMM 103Business & Professional Speaking 13
MATH 130 Business Calculus 3-4
or MATH 131 Applied Calculus I
or MATH 161 Calculus IETHC 341Ethics in Business3
QUIN 202 Career Preparation 2Writing IntensiveSelect two Writing Intensive courses  26Global AwarenessThis requirement is satisﬁed with one (1) year of study in Spain.Business Core CurriculumACCT 201 Introductory Accounting I 3ACCT 202Introductory Accounting II3
ECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics 3ECON 202Principles of Macroeconomics3
FINC 334 Principles of Corporate Finance (required for
Finance majors and minors)3INFS 247Business Information Systems3

--- Page 767 ---
798  U.S./Europe Double Degree (BBA)
INFS 343 Business Analytics 3
or ECON 346 EconometricsISSCM 241Business Statistics3or STAT 103Fundamentals of Statistics
LREB 315 Law and the Regulatory Environment of Business I 3MARK 201Principles of Marketing 33
MGMT 201 Managing People and Organizations 33MGMT 304Strategic Management3
SCMG 232 Introduction to Supply Chain Management 43Major RequirementsACCT 328 Concepts in Taxation 3ECON 303Intermediate Microeconomics 43
ECON 304 Intermediate Macroeconomics 43ECON 346Econometrics3
ECON 399 Special Topics in Economics 43ENTR 201Introduction to Entrepreneurship3
FINC 335 Investments 3FINC 342Advanced Business Finance3
FINC 347 Financial Institutions 43HRER 301Principles of HR Management 43
HRER 311 Employment Relations 3MARK 310Consumer Behavior3
MARK 311 Marketing Research 3MARK 390Marketing Strategies 43
QUIN 351 Business Internship-Engaged Learning 3Control de Gestión  43Economic Policy  43Total Hours107
1Accounting majors with prior credit for  COMM 101 Public Speaking &
Critical Thinking  must take  ENGL 210 Business Writing  to complete this
requirement.
2One must be a Quinlan course or  ENGL 210 Business Writing . Writing
Intensive courses must be taken in separate terms.
3Course taken at the Rome campus.
4Course taken while studying in Spain.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
Chicago  UNIV 101First Year Seminar1
ECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics 3UCLR 100Interpreting Literature3
QUIN 101 Business Learning and Careers 0MATH 110 
or MATH 130 
or MATH 131 
or MATH 161Business Precalculus 
or Business Calculus 
or Applied Calculus I 
or Calculus I3-4
UCWR 110 Writing Responsibly 3ENVS 101The Scientiﬁc Basis of Environmental
Issues ( Scientiﬁc Tier I )3 Hours16
SpringChicago 
ACCT 201 Introductory Accounting I 3ISSCM 241 
or STAT 103Business Statistics 
or Fundamentals of Statistics3
History Tier 1 3INFS 247Business Information Systems3
QUIN 102 Financial Literacy and Well-Being 1MATH 130 
or MATH 131 
or MATH 161Business Calculus ( Or elective if Calculus
completed ) 
or Applied Calculus I 
or Calculus I3-4 Hours16
Year 2
FallChicago or Rome 
MGMT 201 Managing People and Organizations 3HIST Tier II3
Literary Tier II (WI) 3Artistic Core3
Science Tier II 3MARK 201Principles of Marketing3 Hours18
SpringChicago 
FINC 334 Principles of Corporate Finance 3QUIN 202Career Preparation2
INFS 343 
or ECON 346Business Analytics 
or Econometrics3SCMG 232Introduction to Supply Chain Management3
ACCT 202 Introductory Accounting II 3ECON 202Principles of Macroeconomics3 Hours17
Year 3
FallChicago 
THEO 100 
or THEO 107Christian Theology ( Theology Tier I ) 
or Introduction to Religious Studies3COMM 103Business & Professional Speaking3
MARK 321 Ignatian Design Thinking 3FINC 335Investments3
MARK 310 Consumer Behavior 3PHIL 130Philosophy & Persons3 Hours18

--- Page 768 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 799
SpringSpain 
ENTR 201 Essentials of Entrepreneurship 3Thesis3
ECON 323 International Economics 3MGMT 318Organizational Development and Change3
Financial Information and Analysis 3MARK 311Marketing Research3 Hours18
Year 4
FallSpain 
MARK 390 Marketing Strategies 3HRER 3013
MGMT 304 Strategic Management 3Theology Tier II3Control de Gestion3 Hours15
Spring
Chicago  QUIN 351Business Internship-Engaged Learning3
LREB 315 Law and the Regulatory Environment of
Business I ( WI)3FINC 342Advanced Business Finance ( WI)3
ETHC 341 Ethics in Business 3ACCT 328Concepts in Taxation3PHIL 181Ethics3 Hours18 Total Hours136
Learning Outcomes
•Foundational business knowledge for the U.S. and Europe
•How to live and interact with different cultures
•Global approaches to social justice and sustainability
•Unique challenges facing multinational corporations
School of Communication
Mission
The School of Communication is a community of learners that fosters
critical thinking and innovation, integrates big ideas in communication
theory and practice, tells stories across multiple platforms and adapts to
changing technology and social needs. We develop ethical professionals
with the knowledge and dedication to make a lasting contribution through
communication and service in the world.
For more information on Loyola’s Jesuit mission, visit:
•University Mission Statement  (https://www.luc.edu/mission/
mission_vision.shtml/ )
•Transformative Education in the Jesuit Tradition  (https://
jobs.luc.edu/media/lucedu/president/pdfs/FINAL-
LoyolaTransformativeEducation-2015.pdf )Values Statement
Members of the SOC community are dedicated to the well-being, growth
and success of our students and our colleagues.
We are guided by our mission statement and by the Jesuit vision of cura
personalis .
We believe:
•Members of this community should treat others with empathy and
kindness.
•Honesty and trust-building should deﬁne our interactions.
•Collaboration should be the signature of our work.
•The core of all we do must reflect values of ethics, social justice,
diversity, equity, and inclusion.
Through these beliefs and the actions that bring them to life, the SOC
community fosters an environment of learning and belonging for all.
Degree Requirements
Students must fulﬁll the following requirements in order to graduate from
the School of Communication with a bachelor's degree:
•Core Requirements
•College Requirements: Writing Intensive Course Sections and the
Language Requirement
•School of Communication Major Requirements
•General Electives
•Residency Requirement
Core Requirements
The university Core Curriculum  (p. 1405 ) seeks to play a key educational
role in every Loyola student's undergraduate experience. Designed
to provide both breadth and depth to a student’s program of study,
the Core Curriculum introduces students to key concepts and modes
of thought in a variety of areas of human intellectual endeavors. In
particular, the Core introduces students to ten central Knowledge Areas
of university learning, with a consistent focus on learning outcomes for
those Areas. Core coursework develops students' understanding through
knowledge and experience in the Knowledge Areas of artistic, historical,
literary, quantitative, scientiﬁc, societal and cultural, philosophical,
theological and religious studies, and ethical learning, plus written
communication. In addition, the Core reinforces the development of six
Skills crucial to facing the challenges of contemporary society. Each core
course promotes at least one of the following skills: communication,
critical thinking, ethical awareness and decision-making, information
literacy, quantitative and qualitative analysis and research methods, and
technological literacy. Finally, the Core integrates the understanding and
promoting of four Values essential to a Loyola education: understanding
diversity in the US or the world; understanding and promoting justice;
understanding spirituality or faith in action in the world; and  promoting
engaged learning.
To complete the Core Curriculum, students will take 16 courses across
ten Knowledge Areas. Two courses are required in six of these areas
(Historical Knowledge, Literary Knowledge and Experience, Scientiﬁc
Literacy, Societal and Cultural Knowledge, Philosophical Knowledge, and
Theological and Religious Studies Knowledge). Students will begin their
studies in these six areas with a Foundational (or Tier I) course that will
introduce them to critical ideas and methods of analyses in that area.
After completing the Foundational course, students will have an array

--- Page 769 ---
800  School of Communication
of options to further their studies by taking one of a variety of Tier II
classes to pursue their particular interests in more depth. The other four
Knowledge Areas (College Writing, Artistic Knowledge and Experience,
Quantitative Analysis, and Ethics) require one course each.
Additionally, students will have the opportunity to apply their Loyola
education to real world experiences through the Engaged Learning
requirement. This requirement may be satisﬁed by a course within the
Core Curriculum, or in a student’s major or minor, or through an elective
course.
Note: As of Fall 2005, students must earn a 2.00 overall cumulative GPA
in Core Knowledge Areas and Engaged Learning courses. To calculate
your cumulative Core GPA, use the GPA calculator available at http://
www.luc.edu/advising/gpa_calculator.html  (https://www.luc.edu/
advising/gpa_calculator.shtml/ ).
Click on the links below to view the guides and worksheets abou t Loyola's
Core Curriculum and Values Across the Curriculum requirements.
•Core Curriculum  (p. 1405 )
•Student Resources  (https://www.luc.edu/core/
studentresources.shtml/ )
School Requirements
All SOC students are required to complete a language competency
requirement and two writing-intensive sections of curses. These courses
must be completed with a C- or better.
Writing Intensive Sections
Students should expect that virtually all of their courses will include
a writing component. In addition, the college requirement for writing
intensive courses is a means of strengthening the writing of all students
throughout their years at Loyola.
In order to graduate with a degree from the School of Communication,
students ordinarily must complete three writing courses. These include:
•UCWR 110 Writing Responsibly  (3 credit hours) (Core Curriculum
requirement)
•Two writing-intensive sections
Writing-intensive sections are designated sections of courses that are
taught with a special emphasis on writing. They are identiﬁed by a "W"
in the section number. Students in these course sections will have a
variety of writing assignments that will be integrated closely with the
learning objectives of the course. Often, students will be able to complete
a writing-intensive course within their chosen major(s) and minor(s).
The purpose of the program is to assure that students continue to give
attention to writing as an essential component of education throughout
their years at Loyola. Note: UCWR 110 Writing Responsibly  must be taken
in the freshman year and must be completed with a grade of "C-" or better
before any writing-intensive course may be taken.
In order to ensure that training in writing is spread throughout the
undergraduate years, the program speciﬁes that no more than one
writing-intensive course per semester may be applied to this requirement.
Students must earn a C- or better in each writing intensive course in order
for the requirement to be satisﬁed.
Transfer students who have taken and passed (with a C- or higher) both
semesters of a two-semester requirement in college composition at their
previous institutions or who have taken a composition course that is
equivalent to UCWR 110 Writing Responsibly  are not required to takeUCWR 110 Writing Responsibly  at Loyola. Transfer students with 59 or
fewer transfer credit hours (completed prior to matriculation) must take
two writing-intensive courses during their undergraduate career at Loyola;
transfer students with 60-89 transfer credit hours must take one writing-
intensive course during their undergraduate career at Loyola; transfer
students with 90 or more transfer credit hours are exempt from taking
writing-intensive courses. For further information, transfer students
should consult their academic advisor.
Language
Competency in reading, writing, and speaking at the 102-level or higher in
a language other than English is required for all SOC students. Students
may complete this requirement in one of the following ways:
•In a language other than English, complete Loyola language
coursework, earning a C- or better at the 102-level or above. (If
a student wishes to study a language for which they have no
background, this equates to taking two semesters of the same
language, i.e. 101 and 102.). If coursework in a language is
not offered at Loyola, a student may review eligibility and seek
permission to take coursework at another college or university during
the summer in accordance with the Policy on Prior Permission to
Take Coursework at Other Universities  (p. 2283 ). Students must ﬁrst
consult an academic advisor about this policy.
•Earn the 102-level or above equivalent in transfer credit from another
college/university, prior to Loyola matriculation.
•If a student wishes to continue studying a language that is offered
at Loyola, they may complete an online placement test that helps
place them into the most appropriate language course. Scores are
recorded for future reference and are valid for 15 months. (Past
15 months, students should retake the exam.) Students who take
this exam must adhere to the Loyola policy on Academic Integrity
—they should not receive help. This placement exam does not fulﬁll
the language requirement. Rather, it determines at what level of a
language a student should begin taking coursework.
•Earn a score of 4 or 5 on an Advanced Placement  (https://
www.luc.edu/undergrad/academics/creditbyexam/ ) examination (a
score of 3 on an AP exam will satisfy the Language Requirement, but
will not award academic credit). or
•Demonstrate competency by passing a Language Competency
examination. Students are permitted to take only one competency
exam. Multilingual students who wish to take this exam should test
in the language they know best. If a student does not pass their one
competency exam, they must take language coursework, adhering
to the above rules. Note: Language Competency exam results may
take up to six weeks to return. Students who wish to take an exam are
strongly encouraged to schedule the exam as soon as possible upon
matriculation, and no later than the end of their junior year.
For a list of Language Competency exams offered, please consult
the Department of Modern Languages and Literatures website
(https://www.luc.edu/modernlang/placementcompetency/
foreignlanguagecompetencyexam/ ).
To schedule an appointment to take a Language Competency exam,
send an email (from your Loyola account) to LanguageTesting@luc.edu .
Include your Name, Student ID number, current SoC major, and the
language in which you would like to be tested. The Department of Modern
Languages and Literatures will reply with instructions on how to schedule
your speciﬁc exam. Note: Students are responsible for the $100.00
cost of the exam. Language Competency exams that are conducted in
the Language Learning Resource Center (LLRC) may not be scheduled

--- Page 770 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 801
during the ﬁrst week of each semester or during registration week in each
semester.
Requesting a Language Competency Exam in a
Language Not Offered at Loyola
Students who would like to test in a language that is not offered
at Loyola may submit a request (during their ﬁrst semester in the
SoC) to the Department of Modern Languages and Literatures by
completing the Language Exam Request  (https://www.luc.edu/media/
lucedu/cas/pdfs/languageexamrequest.pdf ) (PDF) for a competency
exam in that language. The request form must be submitted to
LanguageTesting@luc.edu . Once a request is submitted, the Department
of Modern Languages and Literatures will make a reasonable effort to
locate an academically qualiﬁed tester at Loyola or at another college
or university. If a Language Competency exam is made available and
the student passes the exam, they will meet the 102-level language
requirement.
If no qualiﬁed tester can be found within one academic semester, the
student’s request will be denied, and the student will be required to
satisfy the SoC language requirement via language coursework at the
102-level or higher.
Elective Courses
Students must complete at least 120 credit hours (as of Fall 2011) to
graduate from Loyola. By deﬁnition, electives are courses not used
toward completing the major, minor, or Core requirements, and which
students take to complete the graduation requirement of 120 credits. We
encourage students, when choosing electives, to think of the knowledge,
values, and skills you hope to gain in exploring a particular academic
interest or in anticipation of a career after graduation. For undeclared
students, elective courses present an excellent opportunity to develop
academic interests leading toward a major or minor. General electives
also present an opportunity to broaden your liberal arts education, add to
your skill set, or simply try a new subject for the joy of it.
Residency Requirement (Required Hours in Residence)
In-residence hours refers to the course credit hours taken at Loyola
University, the Rome Center, or taken from any of the Loyola sponsored
study abroad programs through the Ofﬁce for International Programs.
Students must take their ﬁnal, uninterrupted 45 hours of instruction or a
minimum of 60 hours in residence at Loyola University Chicago.
Undergraduate Programs
•Advertising & Public Relations  (p. 814)
•Advertising & Public Relations (BA)  (p. 814)
•Advertising & Public Relations/Environmental Science and
Sustainability (BA/MS)  (p. 963)
•Advertising & Public Relations/Global Strategic Communication
(BA/MS)  (p. 969)
•Advertising & Public Relations/International Affairs (BA/MA)
(p. 972)
•Advertising & Public Relations/Marketing (BA/MSM)  (p. 978)
•Public Relations Minor  (p. 816)
•Advertising Creative  (p. 817)
•Advertising Creative (BA)  (p. 817)
•Advertising Creative/Environmental Science and Sustainability
(BA/MS)  (p. 982)•Advertising Creative/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 987)
•Advertising Minor  (p. 819)
•Advocacy and Social Change  (p. 820)
•Advocacy and Social Change (BA)  (p. 820)
•Advocacy and Social Change/Environmental Science and
Sustainability (BA/MS)  (p. 992)
•Advocacy and Social Change/International Affairs (BA/MA)
(p. 998)
•Advocacy and Social Change Minor  (p. 822)
•Communication Studies  (p. 823)
•Communication Studies (BA)  (p. 823)
•Communication Studies/Environmental Science and
Sustainability (BA/MS)  (p. 1057 )
•Communication Studies/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1062 )
•Communication Studies Minor  (p. 825)
•Environmental Communication Minor  (p. 826)
•Professional Communication Minor  (p. 828)
•Film and Digital Media  (p. 828)
•Digital Media Minor  (p. 829)
•Film and Digital Media Minor  (p. 830)
•Film and Digital Media: Film and Media Production Track (BA)
(p. 831)
•Film and Digital Media: Film and Media Production Track/
Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)  (p. 1196 )
•Film and Digital Media: Film and Media Production Track/
International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1202 )
•Film and Digital Media: International Programming Track (BA)
(p. 833)
•Film and Digital Media: International Programming Track/
Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)  (p. 1208 )
•Film and Digital Media: International Programming Track/
International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1214 )
•Multimedia Journalism  (p. 835)
•Multimedia Journalism (BA)  (p. 835)
•Multimedia Journalism/Environmental Science and Sustainability
(BA/MS)  (p. 1292 )
•Multimedia Journalism/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1298 )
•Multimedia Journalism Minor  (p. 836)
•Programs with School of Environmental Sustainability  (p. 837)
•Environmental Policy/Digital Media and Storytelling (BA/MC)
(p. 1108 )
•Environmental Policy/Global Strategic Communication (BA/MS)
(p. 1117 )
•Environmental Science/Digital Media and Storytelling (BS/MC)
(p. 1133 )
•Environmental Science/Global Strategic Communication (BS/MS)
(p. 1146 )
•Environmental Studies/Digital Media and Storytelling (BA/MC)
(p. 1171 )
•Environmental Studies/Global Strategic Communication (BA/MS)
(p. 1182 )
University Policies
Please see University Policies for academic policies that supersede those
of academic units within the University

--- Page 771 ---
802  School of Communication
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Communication (COMM)
COMM 100   SOC Career Prep Seminar   (1 Credit Hour)   
This is a professional development course to help students expand their
knowledge of communication ﬁelds and to begin career preparation for
those ﬁelds.
Outcomes:
Develop and polish professional communication tools (resume, cover
letters, LinkedIn, etc); prepare for professional interactions (interviews,
etc); and make connections within the SOC and beyond
COMM 101   Public Speaking & Critical Thinking   (3 Credit Hours)   
This introductory course is designed to supply students with the skills
of public address, a fundamental understanding of critical thinking
practices, foundational tenets of communication theory, a grasp of the
relationship between context and communication, and a sense of the
social responsibility that comes with the capacity for communication.
Students can take one course from COMM 101 and 103, but not both.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
Course equivalencies:  ACCOM 101/103 COMM 101/103   
Outcomes:
Students gain skills in public speaking and an understanding of critical
thinking
COMM 103   Business & Professional Speaking   (3 Credit Hours)   
This class examines the theory and practice of audience analysis,
message design, and oral presentation for professional speakers, with an
emphasis on communication in organizational settings.
Course equivalencies:  ACCOM 101/103 COMM 101/103   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate presentation skills in simulated organizational
settings
COMM 130   Intro to Audio Production   (3 Credit Hours)   
This class offers a study of basic audio production methods across new
media platforms. Topics include acoustics, recording methods, digital
editing, and sound as an industry and art form.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-COMM130/ICVM238/IFMS238   
Outcomes:
Students will produce creative projects using the skills they have learned
COMM 135   Intro to Video Production   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a hands-on introduction to video ﬁeld production. By
designing and executing a series of short, creative production projects
of varied forms, students explore how video techniques are used to
structure meaning in media messages.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-COMM135/ICVM235IFMS235   
Outcomes:
Student will be able to demonstrate an understanding of basic video
production skills, such as preproduction planning, lighting, ﬁlming and
editing, by producing several video textsCOMM 140   Intercollegiate Debate   (1 Credit Hour)   
This course offers students active participation in Loyola Debating
Society. A maximum of six hours in intercollegiate debate credit allowed.
Outcomes:
Students will gain experience in debate
COMM 145   Video for Journalists   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  MJRN majors and minors may enroll, as well as EVCM
minors   
Entry-level course that will serve as an introduction to basic video/audio
journalism. The goal of the course is for the student to develop the ability
to capture great video images and audio, and to be able to edit those two
elements together to tell a non-ﬁction video story. For MJRN majors and
minors only An understanding of how to operate a video camera; how
to capture/edit video; how to tell a journalistic story with video, and the
differences between journalistic videos and ﬁctional videos.
Course equivalencies:  X-COMM135/ICVM235IFMS235   
Outcomes:
An understanding of how to operate a video camera; how to captu re/
edit video; how to tell a journalistic story with video, and the differences
between journalistic videos and ﬁctional videos
COMM 175   Introduction to Communication   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course gives a general historical and theoretical overview of
communication. By looking at communication through a critical,
historical and theoretical lens, students will acquire an intellectual
framework for further study and practice in communication.
Course equivalencies:  COMM 175 /COMM 160 /ACCOM 201   
Outcomes:
Students will increase communication literacy
COMM 200   Digital Communication and Society   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 175 or COMM 201   
This course explores the ways technology affects personal, cultural and
mass communication through examining the historical, societal and
ethical implications of newer and interactive forms of media.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
Course equivalencies:  COMM200 / IFMS200 / ACCOM 205   
Outcomes:
Students use audio, video and digital tools to research and produce
essays, projects and presentations that analyze the impact of technology
on communication
COMM 201   Media Theory and Criticism   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to the study of traditional mass media
and new media from a critical and interpretive perspective. Students
taking the course should be able to understand and apply textual analysis
methods to speciﬁc media texts, such as ﬁlms, TV shows or videogames.
Course equivalencies:  X-IFMS201/COMM201   
Outcomes:
This course reviews semiotics and other methods of textual analysis of
media
COMM 202   Story for Film and Television   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 274   
An introduction to visual writing, story structure and character
development for ﬁlm and TV. Through in-class exercises, analysis of
scripts, and assignments focused on storytelling fundamentals, students
will learn what makes a compelling concept, where great ideas come
from, and effective ways to build a narrative for the screen.
Outcomes:
Story will: write pitches, synopses, loglines and titles for the screen;
create original characters; learn 3-act storytelling structure; develop
original story treatments, outlines and pitches for ﬁlm, TV or webseries

--- Page 772 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 803
COMM 203   Topics in Cinema History   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course examines the aesthetic, social, technical, and theoretical
evolution of cinema offered as speciﬁc topics that include, but are not
limited to: war and revolution, social history and cinema, the role of
women, Indian cinema, musicals, technology and style, and the realistic
impulse.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-COMM203/ICVM260IFMS260   
Outcomes:
Students are offered a variety of topics, broadening their view of the ﬁlm
industry
COMM 204   Community as Story   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course uses children's literature as a means of understanding
urban community and individual identities within that community.
Students will though, community service, interaction with local experts
and ethnographic research, explore communities surrounding Loyola's
lake shore campus and create their own children's picture books in
collaboration with experienced student artists.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
COMM 205   Reporting Basics I: Writing and Interviewing   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCWR 110   
This course examines current issues in U.S. journalism with strong
emphasis on developing skills in news reporting, interviewing, and
writing.
Outcomes:
News Judgment; Writing Concisely and Clearly; Writing on Deadline; AP
Style; Interviewing Techniques; Grammar, Spelling & Punctuation; Ethics
& Legal Issues; Basic Research Methods
COMM 206   Hip Hop Culture and Social Change   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 175 or 201   
Grounded in Black studies, communication studies, critical cultural
studies, political advocacy, popular culture, and the growing ﬁeld of
hip hop studies, we will investigate hip hop's evolving relationship with
social change in the U.S. and beyond. Particular attention will be paid to
Chicago's hip hop scene and its community building.
Outcomes:
1) Gaining a basic understanding of the subject; 2) Developing knowledge
and understanding of diverse perspectives, global awareness, or other
cultures; 3) Gaining a broader understanding and appreciation of
intellectual/cultural activity (music, etc)
COMM 207   Photojournalism   (3 Credit Hours)   
Photojournalism introduces students to the art of photographic
storytelling.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-COMM207/IFMS207   
Outcomes:
Students learn to distinguish journalistic photography from self-
expressive photography through editing, critique and digital manipulation,
and also understand the ethics of photojournalism through graphic
concepts and page designCOMM 208   Reporting Basics II: Technology for Journalists   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course teaches 21st century journalism skills and how to use the
equipment and software to report and edit across platforms, including
radio, television and the Internet. Instruction will include how to use audio
and video recording equipment, basic Web design, use of audio and video
editing software, blogging and social media programs.
Outcomes:
News Judgment; Writing Concisely and Clearly; Writing on Deadline: AP
Style; Interviewing Techniques; Grammar, Spelling & Punctuation; Ethics
& Legal Issues; Basic Research Methods
COMM 210   Principles of Public Relations   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 175; PCOM and EVCM minors may enroll without
pre-requisite   
This course introduces the theory and practice of public relations in
communicating and establishing relationships with diverse publics.
Topics include professional roles and ethical responsibilities, strategies
and tools, media resources, and public relations writing.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the roles and
practices of the public relations professional, develop PR plans, and
create a portfolio or writing samples
COMM 211   Principles of Advertising   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 175; PCOM and EVCM minors may enroll without
prerequisite   
This course provides an overview of the theory and hands-on practice of
advertising including planning, strategy, creative development, and media
planning. Elements of direct response, promotion, internet, and public
relations are also presented.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the principles
of advertising and practice creative and decision-making skills in
developing an advertising campaign
COMM 212   International Advertising   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will build an understanding of the cultural, language, social,
national and business factors that drive international markets. A key
outcome is to broaden student perspectives on how organizations
communicate with Italian and other European audiences.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
COMM 213   Digital Foundations   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 175 or 201; EVCM minors are waived from pre-
requisite   
Students will be introduced to digital media tools, including online
content creation, SEO, website management, email marketing, social
media engagement, digital advertising, analytics and emerging
technologies that are used to create and build integrated digital
campaigns for advertising and public relations.
Outcomes:
Ability to demonstrate elementary knowledge of digital communication
tools; Practical understanding and capabilities for creating content
across a wide range of media platforms; Knowledge of digital media
platform technical requirements

--- Page 773 ---
804  School of Communication
COMM 214   Introduction to Creative Concepts   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 211   
This course introduces students to the creative process and idea
generating techniques. Students explore what constitutes strong
advertising concepts through exposure to award-winning ads and work in
teams to create ads for assigned products.
Outcomes:
The emphasis is on conceptual development with students expected
to express their ideas in rough rather than tightly ﬁnished layouts; The
course focuses on print advertising but also provides opportunities to
work across various other media
COMM 215   Ethics & Communication   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 175   
COMM 215 does not meet Core Ethics. This course explores various
approaches to ethical decision-making and applies that process to
diverse aspects of every day, contemporary life.
Outcomes:
Students learn to discern a wide variety of ethical issues concerning
communication behavior, apply systematic ethical analysis to various
communication situations, and clearly explain their analyses
COMM 220   Introduction to Rhetoric   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces theories of rhetoric, emphasizing the relevance
of classical disputes for understanding current controversies over the
nature and function of discourse. A central theme is the tension between
rhetoric's promise for constructing a rich and meaningful civic life and the
dangers of its descent into demagoguery and irrationality.
Course equivalencies:  ACENG 220 / COMM 220   
Outcomes:
Students will work through theoretical issues, by examining speeches,
ﬁlms, and other rhetorical artifacts
COMM 227   Social Justice & Communication   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 175; EVCM minors are waived from the pre-
requisite   
This course examines the implications of communication processes and
practices for democracy and social justice.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-COMM227/PAX 227   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to articulate and defend their conception of the
role of communication in achieving a just society and demonstrate an
understanding of how existing communication institutions, laws, and
norms impede or assist movement towards that goal
COMM 230   Argumentation & Advocacy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 175; PCOM minors may enroll without pre-requisite   
This course is an introduction to analyzing and critiquing arguments, and
inventing extended arguments to advocate positions.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze and critique both individual arguments
and extended cases; demonstrate understanding of the relationship
of argumentation to audience and context; and invent arguments and
develop cases for advocacyCOMM 231   Conflict Management and Communication   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 175; PCOM minors may enroll without pre-requisite   
This course explores the role of communication in conflict resolution.
Special attention is paid to mediation and other forms of alter native
dispute resolution.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-COMM231/PAX 231   
Outcomes:
Students will acquire methods of analyzing the nature of conflict and
applying appropriate communicative strategies for managing conflict
COMM 232   Cinematography I   (3 Credit Hours)   
In this course, students will demonstrate their ability to apply aesthetic
and theoretical principles and cinema production skills. Topics include
pre-visualizations, preproduction planning, digital cameras system,
cinematography and lighting. Students work on individual and group
projects involving project development, ﬁlming and editing.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-COMM232/ICVM232/IFMS232   
COMM 234   Interviewing for Communication   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 175 or COMM 201; PCOM minors may enroll without
pre-requisite   
This course explores the crucial skill of interviewing necessary for many
aspects of professional and daily life. Students will learn different ways of
interviewing depending on communication context.
Outcomes:
These approaches will enhance students' interviewing ethics as they gain
practical experience
COMM 236   Persuasive Presentations   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 220 or COMM 230 or COMM 268; EVCM minors are
waived from pre-req   
This class focuses on the creation and delivery of persuasive messages
to develop a variety of persuasive strategies and implement them in both
individual and group presentations.
Outcomes:
Students engage in situation analysis and message critique
COMM 237   Small Group Communication   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 175; PCOM minors may enroll without pre-requisite   
This class is an introduction to theory, research, and practice of
communication that contribute to effective task-group discussion and
decision making.
Outcomes:
The development of personal leadership skills and observational/analytic
skills through guided, structured group activities
COMM 239   Moving China   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course offers a unique opportunity to ﬁlm and document China as it
changes virtually before our eyes.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Film & Digital Media Studies, Global
Studies, International Film & Media Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will have an intimate knowledge of China and Chinese culture
and the talent and skill to produce a 15-minute documentary video in
digital format

--- Page 774 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 805
COMM 256   Broadcast Newswriting   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces basics of broadcast news and broadcast writing
style. Students learn script writing and formatting, an introduction to
radio and TV reporting, standard terms and basic newscast production,
and an introduction to the studio. This course also provides a foundation
for more advanced courses in the broadcast curriculum.
Outcomes:
Students gain experience writing for radio and TV news, as well as basic
knowledge of the broadcast news industry and contemporary issues
pertinent to the ﬁeld
COMM 258   Game Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines games and their complex role within contemporary
culture. Games are approached as "texts" that can be "read" using a
variety of theoretical lenses. Students will explore what games say about
the nature of identity, community presence, learning, and communication
and reflect on their own experience in a blog.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-COMM258/IFMS258   
COMM 259   News Editing   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the skills needed to act as a newsroom leader and
manager, including copy editing, researching, photo and visual editing,
working as an assignment, project and online editor. This course will
beneﬁt those who want to be an editor, manage people, shape newsroom
culture and build community trust.
Outcomes:
Students will gain experience with production skills in the print medium
COMM 260   Environmental Journalism   (3 Credit Hours)   
The mission of environmental journalism is to raise public awareness
about environmental news and issues. It is about being ethical, accurate,
fair, and clear, whether reporting, investigating, or advocating for change.
Course equivalencies:  X-ENVS 260/ COMM 260   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to ﬁnd, report, and present challenging stories
around this topic, in print and in broadcast writing
COMM 261   Social Media   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 200   
Starting from the foundation of traditional offline business and social
communities and communication, this course will show how the real
relationships of online business and social communities use content
to build personal and business success at the speed and reach of the
Internet.
Outcomes:
Articulate how the Internet and social media has changed the way we
produce and consume content and how social media has affected the
way we work, shop, and interact online and off
COMM 262   Feature & Opinion Writing   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines methods of researching and writing editorials,
commentaries, and features for print media.
Outcomes:
Students will broaden their research and writing skills
COMM 263   Editorial Design I: Newspaper & Online   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 175 or COMM 201   
Editorial Design I is an introduction to information processing and
readership, and basic principles of layout and editing.
Outcomes:
Students experiment with a variety of printed formats and practice copy
ﬁtting, typography, and photo-editingCOMM 265   Sports Broadcasting   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will teach students how to report and produce broadcast
stories about athletes and athletic events. Students will have access to
players and coaches on the professional and collegiate levels, attending
games, practices and training. Students will learn to produce stories for
radio and television, as well as sound broadcast presentation skills.
Outcomes:
Students will learn to conduct journalistic research, interviewing
techniques, public speaking skills and how to produce stories for radio
and television
COMM 266   Advertising Copywriting   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will focus on the art of copywriting for advertising, be it
for TV, print, outdoor, social media and the ever changing landscape of
digital media. Students will learn to craft their words to make creative
advertising based on strategies and insights.
Outcomes:
Through a series of creativity building exercises, short lectures, and
readings, learners develop both an understanding of creativity and
increase their own ability
COMM 268   Persuasion   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students will get practical experience in the analysis, criticism, and
application of persuasive discourse across a wide variety of contexts.
This course is designed to explore theories related to persuasion, social
influence, and compliance-gaining.
COMM 269   Observing China   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is about street-level China, as it is seen and as it happens.
This course is a practicum, in which students, through a mix of lectures,
brieﬁngs and discussions, will delve into nature of observation and
engagement with and in China.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will have a deeper understanding of how journalists and
documentarians observe and write (or ﬁlm) China, and over the course of
the semester will make some efforts of their own to do original journalism
and essay writing
COMM 271   Media Culture and Communication   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines contemporary U.S. American culture from a critical-
theoretical standpoint while examining popular icons and social practices
with particular attention to their influence on individual and collective
identities.
Outcomes:
Students will learn critical cultural theories and do projects where they
reflect upon the influences of contemporary cultural texts and practices
with an eye for their economic, social and political influence on individual
and collective identities
COMM 272   Intercultural Communication   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces students to intercultural communication theory
and research. Students explore how differences in ethnic, religious,
economic, and geographical experiences produce social biases and
engender conflict. Students are expected to explore their own cultural
histories to understand how they create meaning and adopt attitudes.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Global
Studies, Latin American Studies, Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-COMM272/INTS213/PAX 218   

--- Page 775 ---
806  School of Communication
COMM 273   Interpersonal Communication   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 175; PCOM minors may enroll without pre-requisite   
Students study speech to understand its role in human relationships.
This course focuses on self-exploration of communication patterns
by asking life's big questions about self and other. Students will gain
competence in interpersonal communication through the development of
perceptual accuracy, and clariﬁcation of values with regard to relational
goals.
COMM 274   Introduction to Cinema   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to the study of cinema as a complex
medium of communication. This course will provide students with the
basic terminology, observational skills and theoretical background for
the study of ﬁlm aesthetics, language, cultural analysis, histo ry and the
production of cinematic texts.
Knowledge Area:  Artistic Knowledge and Experience   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
Course equivalencies:  ACCOM / COMM 274   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the basic
approaches to ﬁlm studies such as formal analysis; critical practices, and
narrative studies
COMM 275   Web Design and Usability   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 200; PCOM and EVCM minors may enroll without
pre-requisite; For FNVC majors/minors, pre-requisite is FNAR 383   
This course will explore the design and usability of websites from several
perspectives: how they look (aesthetics), how they work (navigability
and usability), and how they are made (tools and software). Lectures,
demonstrations, and in-class lab time will introduce students to the
creative tools and software that power contemporary web design and
usability. Emphasis will be on using a variety of tools and resources to
meet one's own goals, rather than achieving the level of expert in any one
piece of software.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
COMM 277   Organizational Communication   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 175; PCOM minors may enroll without pre-requisite   
This course is an introduction to theory and practice of organizational
communication, with an emphasis on organization contexts, culture, and
systems, and the role of communication in building relationships with
internal and external stakeholders.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze organizational communication, and
understand the impact of technology, globalization, community and
diversity on organizational systems
COMM 278   International Public Relations   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores the growing impact of globalization on
public relations. As multinationals grow and social, economic, and
environmental issues become worldwide in focus, PR professionals work
in increasingly interconnected world. Students will explore the growth
of international public relations by comparing countries, analyzing and
discussing cases, and learning best practices.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
COMM 279   Critical Issues in Journalism   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines different approaches to understanding the role
of journalism in contemporary society, emphasizing the historical
development of issues that surround journalism today.
Outcomes:
Students explore varied critical perspectives on news and news-gathering
to gain a broader understanding of the role of journalism in societyCOMM 280   Media Technology & Society   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 175 or 201   
Through lectures, discussions, and assignments, learn the evolutionary
history of media technologies from the telegraph through ﬁlm, television,
and digital media, and review contemporary theories about how
technology shapes society.
COMM 281   Communication, Language & Gender   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course explores the role of communication practices in the
production, reinforcement and transformation of gendered identities.
Students will learn how gender expectations within cultural contexts
are created. They will also learn some of the ways that deeply-rooted
assumptions limit social change and guide communication.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  X-CMUN254/WOST208/WSGS208   
COMM 282   Media Law   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 175 or COMM 201; EVCM minors are waived from
pre-requisites   
This course examines cases and issues in constitutional, statut ory,
and regulatory law affecting print and electronic media including First
Amendment rights, libel, privacy, copyright and trademarks, Freedom of
Information, and telecommunication regulations.
Course equivalencies:  COMM282/CMUN252   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand major legal precedents affecting
current media communication and recognize their impact on professional
practices in print, electronic media and the Internet
COMM 290   Branding and Positioning   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 210 or COMM 211   
Examines the theory and practice of branding, target segmentation, and
how the digital space and the rapid rise of consumer-generated content
have impacted brand management. The course explores each stage of
the communication planning process and introduces students to the way
audience research, and the competitive sets are used to develop brand
positions and beneﬁts.
COMM 296   Themes in Advertising/Public Relations   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 175 or 201   
Intermediate-level Advertising/Public Relations lecture course that
examines speciﬁc areas of study. Topics vary each semester. This course
may be repeated (with different topics) for a total of 9 hours, but only 6
may count toward the major. Students will gain access to a wide variety
of topics in AD/PR.
COMM 297   Themes in Communication Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
Intermediate-level Communication Studies lecture course that examines
speciﬁc areas of study. Topics vary each semester. This course may
be repeated (with different topics) for a total of 9 hours, but only 6 may
count toward the major. Students will gain access to a wide variety of
topics in COMM.
COMM 298   Themes in Multimedia Journalism   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 175   
Intermediate-level multimedia journalism lecture course that examines
speciﬁc areas of study. Topics vary each semester. This course may
be repeated (with different topics) for a total of 9 hours, but only 6 may
count toward the major. Students will gain access to a wide variety of
topics in MJRN.

--- Page 776 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 807
COMM 299   Themes in Film and Digital Media   (3 Credit Hours)   
Beginner to Intermediate-level Film and Digital Media course that
examines speciﬁc areas of study. Topics vary each semester. This course
may be repeated (with different topics) for a total of 9 hours, but only 6
may count toward the major.
Outcomes:
Students will gain access to a wide variety of topics in Film and Digital
Media
COMM 300   Persuasive Campaigns   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 175   
This course analyses the structure, development, and role of
communication in political and advertising campaigns, with a focus on
theories of media effects, message construction, and audience analysis.
Outcomes:
Students will use their analytic and research skills to broaden their
understanding of the use and effects of communication as a means of
public persuasion
COMM 301   Discovering China Through Film   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will give an overview of major ﬁlms produced in mainland
China since 1949. Students will examine the genres of Chinese ﬁlm
better known in contemporary China and consider them a major source
of reflection upon, and critique of, contemporary Chinese society and
culture.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Asian Studies, Film & Digital Media Studies, Global
Studies, International Film & Media Studies   
Course equivalencies:  CMUN301/ASIA/INTS/AIFMS302   
Outcomes:
All ﬁlms chosen for the course will help inform students' understanding of
modern China in terms of its material conditions and ideology
COMM 303   Media, Politics, & Propaganda   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 175 or 201, and COMM 200   
This course will enable students to understand the relationship between
media and politics as well as be able to identify strategies used in
propaganda, disinformation and misinformation campaigns, and the
impact of technology on its history and evolution.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-CMUN330/INTS331/PAX 331   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to articulate the media's impact on the circulation of
propaganda as well as be able to identify disinformation/misinformation
and understand its signiﬁcance in the political process
COMM 304   Rhetorics of Utopia & Revolution   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCWR 110   
This reading-intensive course will examine rhetorics of utopia, revolution,
and strategies of change. Students will read a variety of texts from
activists, scholars, and revolutionary thinkers to understand the ways
(historically and presently) that utopias and revolutions are imagined and
created through communication, media texts, and discourse.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global & International Studies, Peace Studies,
Global & International Studies, Peace Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-COMM304/PLSC/PAX336/INTS310   
Outcomes:
By the end of this course, students will have a better understanding of
utopia and revolution, how ideology operates and solidiﬁes via discourse,
and ways to enact social changeCOMM 305   Animation   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 135; For FNVC majors/minors, FNAR 233 is the
required pre-requisite in lieu of COMM 135   
This course will focus on animation with speciﬁc emphasis on the
creation, reﬁnement, and publishing of a visual story. Students will learn
2D and 3D techniques, cameras, CGI and other software and equipment
to create animated works.
Course equivalencies:  COMM 305/COMM 455   
Outcomes:
theories of visual and image-based storytelling; script writing;
character development; storyboarding; creating visual stories from
images; animation enhancement/manipulation; graphic design; and
contemporary animation design options for visual storytelling/promotion
COMM 306   Environmental Advocacy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing; For SES undergrads and EVCM
minors, pre-req is waived   
This course explores the rhetorical means by which citizens influence the
policies and practices affecting our natural and human environments.
The focus is on current controversies.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies, Urban
Studies   
Course equivalencies:  XCOMM306/ESP 329/PAX 329   
Outcomes:
The course seeks to provide an understanding of the history and range of
communication styles in the U.S. environmental movement and to help
students develop practical skills relevant to entering into environmental
debates
COMM 307   Communication & Social Movements   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 175; EVCM minors are waived from pre-requisites   
This course explores the communication strategies used to promote and/
or resist signiﬁcant socio-political change. Students will demonstrate
an understanding of how communication is used in particular societal
struggles to effect socio-cultural change at an individual, community,
institutional or global level.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies   
COMM 308   Screen Directing   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 135 and 274   
This advanced course in screen directing is designed to further students'
narrative ﬁlmmaking skills. Geared toward creating ﬁction ﬁlms, the
course focuses primarily on blocking for the camera, directing actors
for the screen, and structuring dramatic scenes. Students should have
a working knowledge of basic videography, nonlinear editing, shot
composition and ﬁlm grammar.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-COMM308/IFMS309   

--- Page 777 ---
808  School of Communication
COMM 309   Designing Media for Social Change   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 220, 227, 230, 231,237, 268, 272,277, or 281;
GSCM-MS or DMST -MC or ECVM-MINR students may enroll with no
prerequisites   
This course examines media and social change at the intersection of
theory and practice. The class will be dedicated to analyzing the way
social change is catalyzed and communicated through various media
platforms. Students will gain a historical and multi-media pers pective on
a variety of design and communication strategies tied to a range of social
and cultural issues.
Outcomes:
Grounded in theories of media power, communication networks, political
advocacy, engaged scholarship, and the digital, materials in this course
will explore the past, present, and future of designing media and
communication practices
COMM 310   Production Design   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 274 or COMM 135 or THTR 252; Or instructor
permission; MC in DMST students may enroll without pre-requisites   
Students develop an understanding for the evolution and history of
production design, as it relates to ﬁlm production, from its inception to
the present. Students will pre-visualize and implement art direction--
sets, costumes, makeup, color palettes--for student ﬁlms in production.
They learn pre-visualization techniques, script breakdowns and build-out
processes for art direction on ﬁlm sets.
Outcomes:
Students acquire the visual language and historical precedents for
production design in ﬁlm and television
COMM 311   Health Communication   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 205 or COMM 210   
This course focuses on the growing ﬁeld of health communication.
Building on students' knowledge of public relations, advertising,
communication and marketing, this class aims to help students develop
an area of specialization that offers career opportunities in many
settings. Through guest speakers and ﬁeld trips, the class is designed to
provide an overview of what health communicators do and where they
work.
Course equivalencies:  COMM 311/COMM 461   
Outcomes:
Provide a foundation of knowledge about the US healthcare system and
acquaint students with how communications can play a vital role in
accomplishing public health objectives
COMM 312   Special Events Planning   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 210   
Students will gain hands-on experience in event planning. They will learn
to anticipate and execute the needs of an organization or community
planning special events.
COMM 313   Corporate and Organizational Communication   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 175 and COMM 210; PCOM minors may enroll
without pre-requisites   
Students will learn the theory and practice of responsive and strategic
organizational communication in developing corporate identity and
image.
Outcomes:
Students understanding of the theory and practice of responsive and
strategic organizational communication, public relations and advertising
will be enhancedCOMM 314   Public Relations Cases   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 210   
The course focuses on issues, strategies, and solutions in creating and
maintaining relationships with key publics including media relations,
internal communications, community relations, public affairs, investor
relations, and crisis communications.
Outcomes:
Students will gain experience analyzing, formulating and applying case-
speciﬁc solutions and developing an integrated campaign
COMM 315   Advanced Reporting Topics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 205, 362 , and Junior Standing and above   
This course offers in-depth attention to the challenges of writing complex
stories characterized by careful research, use of sources, interviewing,
and reporting and writing. Students examine writing for a "lay" audience
in such areas as science and technology, ﬁnance, government, and
religion. Can be repeated once with a different topic. Second completion
can count as major elective in MJRN.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will broaden their writing and research experience
COMM 317   Media Planning   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 211   
This course examines the advertising and marketing processes required
to research, develop and implement an effective media plan for budgeting
appropriate advertising time and space.
Course equivalencies:  COMM 317/COMM 417   
Outcomes:
Student teams will develop competencies in decision-making processes
and tools, including research methods, objectives, strategies and tactics
to construct an advertising media plan
COMM 318   Public Relations Writing   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 210   
This course focuses on strategic public relations, writing for publics
including print, broadcast and digital media with understanding of
objectives, news values and formats.
Outcomes:
Students develop competency writing and editing news releases, pitch
letters, fact sheets, public service announcements, newsletters, and Web
content to develop a portfolio of individual writing samples
COMM 320   Public Service Communication   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 210 and 211   
This course examines public relations strategies and applications in
cause-related campaigns, public service initiatives, and community
relations activities for corporate and nonproﬁt organizations.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze current issues and advocacy campaigns,
deﬁne ethical communication and social responsibility, and develop a
public service campaign for an organization
COMM 321   Advertising Campaigns   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 211   
This is an advanced advertising course in a simulated agency
environment to provide practical experience in the campaign planning
process.
Outcomes:
Student teams develop competencies in creating and producing a
professional advertising campaign that includes market research,
development of creative and media recommendations, and an integrated
marketing communication strategy

--- Page 778 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 809
COMM 322   Guerilla Media   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 200   
This course covers provocative, unexpected, and alternative methods for
distributing media and gaining new audiences. It includes the h istory,
theories and ethics behind the appropriation of "guerrilla" strategies as
found in artistic, civic, commercial and political media work. SES majors
and EVCM minors are waived from pre-requisites.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies   
Outcomes:
Students gain experiences with understanding, creating and distributing
media work with guerrilla strategies around environmental, journalistic
and commercial themes of their choice
COMM 323   Remixing Culture   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 200   
This course explores the remix culture as cultural exchange. While
studying about remix culture and collaborative process, students
will manifest projects that involve mashing up media using various
web-based and mobile media creation, web-based editing, live online
broadcasting and sharing and techniques of online presentation.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-COMM323/ICVM323/IFMS323   
Outcomes:
Students will learn about the intermixing of cultures through individual
projects in which they will combine different types of media
COMM 324   Film Genre   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 274   
Traces the evolution of independent ﬁlmmaking in the U.S, from the
pioneering cinema of Maya Deren and John Cassavetes to seminal works
of Spike Lee, Kelly Reichardt, and Barry Jenkins.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-COMM324/ICVM324/IFMS324   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge what constitutes  a genre
and the varied approaches used to analyze ﬁlms within the context of
genre studies
COMM 326   Screenwriting   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 202   
This course introduces students to the process of writing for the
screen. Through exercises and analysis of structure and storytelling
fundamentals, students will develop a working sense of the art of crafting
a screenplay, learning how to build a script, step by step, from an original
and compelling idea.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-COMM326/THTR209/IFMS209   
Outcomes:
Extensive writing requirements cover all aspects of screenwriting, from
creating a treatment and character bios to writing action and dialogue,
culminating in the development of a detailed step outline and polished
ﬁrst act of a feature-length script (20+ pages); Students are required to
bring an original movie idea to the ﬁrst classCOMM 327   Mastering Video Reporting and Storytelling   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 135 or COMM 145   
This course prepares students to report and produce video stories for
broadcast and other similar media distribution. It emphasizes information
gathering, source development and visual storytelling, and builds on the
video and editing skills students learn in the beginning video production
class. COMM 256 is encouraged before taking this class but not required.
Outcomes:
Students will learn how to capture great video and audio, research, write,
produce, edit complex, effective video stories and present in a variety of
ways
COMM 328   Editorial Design II: Magazine & Interactive   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 175 and COMM 205   
This course gives advanced instruction in multi-page editorial layout and
design by incorporating writing and photography into a complete, full-
color magazine. Students will work as editors and designers in applying
principles of design and production to existing articles; and understand
ethical issues in serving the readers of the magazine.
COMM 329   Advertising and Public Relations Design   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 210 or COMM 211   
This course is for AD/PR majors who want to understand the creative and
design discipline of the ﬁelds. Students will learn the fundamentals of
print-based messages used in advertising and public relations. Students
will employ various design programs applied in today's industry to
develop visual communications projects, which will culminate in a ﬁnal
portfolio.
Course equivalencies:  COMM 329/COMM 429   
Outcomes:
Students will learn and become competent in the following: Current
design programs including InDesign and Photoshop; Basic design
principles, such as color, space, and typography; Common formats for
designing integrated marketing communication print materials
COMM 330   Intermediate Advertising Design   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 214   
Builds on the creative skills and understanding acquired in the
introductory advertising creative courses to enhance students'
conceptual abilities. Utilizing Adobe InDesign and Photoshop, students
learn to design for various advertising formats including digital, print and
for client presentations.
Course equivalencies:  COMM 330/COMM 463   
Outcomes:
The best work is ﬁnished on computers and reviewed by advertising
professionals at the end of the semester
COMM 331   Social Media Advertising   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 211 and COMM 213   
This course covers the latest theories and practices of social media
advertising. Students will be exposed to 1) evolving concepts and
theories related to social media advertising, 2) case studies that discuss
the strategies of social media campaigns, and 3) hands-on practices of
digital technologies to implement social media campaigns.
Course equivalencies:  COMM 331/COMM 444   
Outcomes:
Knowledge of theories relating to social media advertising, ability to
create strategic plans on social media, skills for digital technologies in
social media advertising campaigns, and understanding social media
advertising ethics

--- Page 779 ---
810  School of Communication
COMM 332   Investigative & Public Affairs Reporting   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 205, COMM 362, and Junior Standing and above   
This course will teach you how to do Investigative and Public Affairs
Reporting with a data journalism approach. Through discussion of
examples and our own work, we will explore how to ﬁnd, request, and use
data that can reveal important information about society.
Outcomes:
Students will learn how to conduct their own data-driven Investigative
and Public Affairs Reporting; They will also be able to critically assess
this type of journalism
COMM 333   Cinematography II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 232, or instructor permission   
Students learn and demonstrate techniques and roles for advanced
cinematography: virtual production, assistant directing, sound stages,
and location lighting.
Outcomes:
Camera/lighting setups for commercial spaces, virtual locations, lens/
cameras for advanced aesthetic choices, assistant directing role/
practices, drones, cranes, Steadicams, and other mobile camera framing
techniques
COMM 334   Mobile Advertising   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 211 and COMM 213   
Mobile is one of the most valued investments for advertisers. This
course covers the latest practices and trends of mobile advertising which
includes 1) branded mobile application design and development; 2)
advanced mobile experiences with AR/VR experiments; and 3) various
practices, tactics, and ethical concerns for native mobile advertising
experiences.
Course equivalencies:  COMM 334/COMM 464   
Outcomes:
Knowledge of relevant human-computer interaction theories and branded
mobile design/development; Ability to use digital tools to create mobile
advertising campaigns; Understanding of importance and implications of
ethics in mobile advertising
COMM 335   AI in Advertising   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 211 Outcomes: Students will learn the fundamental
of logics of AI technologies, and its implicaitons in various aspects of
advertising   
This course explore what is AI, how it¿s been applied in various stages
and aspects of advertising, and be creative in using artiﬁcial intelligent
technologies to create better advertisement and consumer experiences.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  X - COMM 335 / COMM 445   
COMM 336   Search & Display Advertising   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 211 and COMM 213   
This course covers search engine optimization and advertising practices
through lectures and hands-on practices. Students will learn technical
terms and tactics involved in optimizing the search result and user
experience with brand websites. Google AdWords, search network
campaigns, display network campaigns and Google merchandiser set-up
training will be included. (Consider scheduling to coincide with Google
Challenge.)
Outcomes:
Understand the major concepts in search engine optimization; Working
knowledge of the structure and terms used in Google AdWords; Be able to
develop effective search engine and display advertising campaignsCOMM 337   AD/PR Multimedia Commercial Production   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 135, COMM 145, or COMM 211   
This is an advanced video and advertising course designed to give
students an introduction to various types of multimedia commercials
as well as practical considerations of producing branded content and
television spots, including for real clients.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  COMM 337/COMM 437   
Outcomes:
Build experience in effective multi-tasking and teamwork, gain skills
with technology and strategy, creative, and application process of
broadcast production, and practice engaging with the community in
media development efforts
COMM 338   Narrative Production   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior standing and either COMM 232, COMM 308, OR
COMM 359; Graduate students majoring in Digital Media Storytelling are
also eligible to enroll   
Students work in teams to create short-subject narrative ﬁlms taking
their projects from preproduction to exhibition. Students will experience
working as a part of a ﬁlm production crew, be exposed to a variety of
jobs, and produce and exhibit original ﬁlms.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
COMM 339   Video Documentary   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 135 or COMM 145   
This course offers hands on production of video documentaries through
the study of electronic ﬁeld production technology, the analysis of
documentary texts, and the application of documentary research
methods.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  X-COMM339/439/ICVM339/IFMS339   
Outcomes:
Students will gains hands-on video production experience in a non-
narrative genre
COMM 342   Human Rights Reporting   (3 Credit Hours)   
In this course, Students will study the history of the concept of human
rights and the legal mechanisms for enforcing human rights law, and they
will read work by reporters covering human rights worldwide.
Outcomes:
Students will learn how to report on international conflicts by ﬁnding local
angles of interest to Chicago readers and how to approach articles on
domestic human rights issues
COMM 344   Portfolio I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 266; and (COMM 329 or COMM 330)   
Builds on skills acquired in intermediate creative courses to help students
enhance their conceptual abilities and generate both print and integrated
multimedia campaigns. Students work in teams to develop an extensive
body of work that's exhibited in an awards show judged by advertising
professionals.

--- Page 780 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 811
COMM 345   Student Agency   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 175 and Instructor Consent   
COMM 210 or 211 strongly recommended. Open to undergraduate
students only. A 3.0 GPA is required. Course involves actual client work in
Inigo, the student-run communications agency. Students gain skills/put
theory into action as they provide public relations, digital communication,
strategy and other services to companies and non-proﬁts. Students apply
prior semester. Contact instructor at cmcphil@luc.edu for details. All
majors encouraged.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
A fundamental understanding of what agencies are and how they
function; A heightened sense of professionalism; Advanced-level
teamwork; Increased written and verbal communication skills
COMM 350   Producing for Film & Digital Media   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 135 OR COMM 274; COMM 405 (for DMST
students); OR Instructor Consent   
Aesthetic choices meet the ethics and business of ﬁlmmaking in
COMM 350. Producing covers how to develop story ideas from
conception to writing, ﬁnancing, production and distribution. Relevant
issues in script breakdowns, safety, communication and contracts
are covered. Students create pitch decks, basic budgets and a longer
prospectus for potential investors.
Outcomes:
Understanding DEI issues while choosing stories to produce, hiring
performers or crew; templates for budgets; best practices for safety on
the set; creating engaging pitch decks and treatments
COMM 357   Programming Film & Media: Festivals, TV & Digital   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 200   
This course examines programming and curating (selecting) media for
ﬁlm festivals, museums, streaming services and other platforms. Through
work on a festival or similar project, students examine how audiences
are identiﬁed, learn about distribution, and explore the challenges facing
media outlets in selecting, reviewing and archiving media.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-COMM357/IFMS369   
Outcomes:
Evaluate, curate and present media work; improve critical thinking and
writing about media; learn legal, creative and ﬁnancial implications of
programming and curating mediaCOMM 358   Newscasting and Producing   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 145 and COMM 256 This is designed as a capstone
course for the broadcast journalism emphasis   
It covers all aspects of TV (or web) newscasts, including producing,
anchoring, reporting, photography and editing, as well as studio
production. The class produces and delivers newscasts, designed to
prepare students for work in the TV news industry.
Course equivalencies:  COMM 358/COMM 458   
Outcomes:
This class is designed to produce news content on multiple platforms:
not only television but also audio (podcast-style) and social media, and
to that end, you will gather information, write, shoot and edit stories to
present in these various formats; In addition to learning the technical
aspects of producing content on these platforms, to do well in the class
you will need to keep up with the news -- what's happening at Loyola
and in Chicago, in the state, nation, and world; In addition, you will be
expected to produce news that represents diverse perspectives and
avoids misrepresentation or harm to individuals, groups, or alternative
viewpoints
COMM 359   Advanced Post Production   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 135 and COMM 274   
This course combines advanced editing theory and practice, aimed at
providing students with the skills required for editing motion pictures of
all genres and for all platforms.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
Course equivalencies:  X-COMM359/459/IFMS359   
Outcomes:
Students will learn how to edit for motion pictures of all forms
COMM 360   Digital Media Ethics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 200   
This course is designed to familiarize students with a new set of
ethical dilemmas that have sprung up in the last decade with the rise
of new media. Using classical ethical theories, students will formulate
appropriate and responsible solutions to ethical dilemmas emerging in a
new/digital media context.
Outcomes:
Students will learn about current ethical issues and solve these issues
using classical ethical theories
COMM 361   New Media Criticism   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 200 and UCWR 110   
Wikipedia, Google, YouTube, Twitter and mobile applications are complex
designed objects. Students will learn a critical language for thinking of
new media as art, narrative, culture, and code. This course is Writing
Intensive.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
COMM 362   Multimedia Journalism Research Methods   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 175 and COMM 205; EVCM minors are waived from
the pre-requisite   
This course advances student knowledge of resources, methods, and
credibility standards for gathering and reporting news stories.
Outcomes:
Students will learn how to conduct research that is both accurate and
balanced

--- Page 781 ---
812  School of Communication
COMM 363   Research Methods in Advertising/Public Relations   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 210 or 211   
Course will introduce majors to sound and effective social science
research methods used in Ad/PR, including surveys, focus groups,
content analysis, and audience analyses. It will also give students a
chance to apply for the national PR student Bateman Competition that
would continue in a designated course the following spring.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will learn the research process and how to apply it to establish,
build, and evaluate Ad/PR strategies, goals, and campaigns
COMM 365   Naturalistic Methods Communication Research   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 175 or COMM 201   
This course examines how communication research is conducted
in naturalistic settings using qualitative methods associated with
observation and in-depth interviewing.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Urban Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will become familiar with the reading and evaluation of
communication research, and apply the concepts studied in class to the
design and development of a research project
COMM 366   Observing/Measuring Cmun Behavior   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines how communication processes and behaviors
are studied, using the social-scientiﬁc techniques of observation and
measurements. It also looks at the limitations of these methods;
appropriate methodologies and ways of analyzing quantitative
(numerical) data.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Urban Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will become familiar with the analysis of quantitative data, and
apply their knowledge to the design of a research project
COMM 367   Rhetorical Criticism   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCWR 110 and (COMM 175 or COMM 201)   
This course examines theory, research, and application of critical
methods for analyzing historical and contemporary persuasive discourse.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Urban Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze rhetorical situations and critically assess
efforts to respond to them
COMM 368   Ethnographic Research Methods in Communication   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (COMM 175 or COMM 201) and Junior standing   
This course teaches principles of participant-observation research as
a critical practice to produce a 'thick description' of meanings, values,
hierarchies of interests, power structures and ideals of a particular
cultural group or community.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students learn to conduct ethnographic research and its procedures
- taking ﬁeld notes, conducting interviews, examination of data and
artifacts, and producing research results to a public audienceCOMM 370   Special Topics in Advertising & Public Relations   (3 Credit
Hours)   
These are advanced courses in specialized AD/PR areas. Titles and
content vary and prerequisites are established according to course
content. May be repeated with different topics for a total of 9 credit hours,
but only 6 may count toward the major.
Course equivalencies:  COMM 370/COMM 470   
COMM 371   Special Topics Communication Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 175; DMST -MC and GSCM-MS students may enroll
without prerequisites   
These courses offer in-depth reading, research, and discussion in
specialized areas dealing with current social issues and communication
practices. Course titles and content vary. May be repeated for up to 9
hours, but only 6 may count toward the major.
COMM 372   Special Topics: Multimedia Journalism   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 175, or DMST student   
These courses offer in-depth reading, research, and discussion in
specialized areas dealing with current issues in multimedia journalism.
Course titles and content vary. May be repeated for up to 9 hours, but only
6 may count toward the major.
COMM 373   Digital Storytelling Abroad   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 135 or 145   
Participants will learn and execute multimedia storytelling in an
international setting. This course will help students enhance their video,
writing, interviewing, photography and editing skills within another
country and cultural context.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  COMM 373/COMM 473   
Outcomes:
The course will require students to enterprise and execute a range of
multimedia skills that help participants tell stories; The course will have
an emphasis on community engagement and social justice; The course
will give students an opportunity to apply technical knowledge and skills
to a uniquely-designed study abroad experience
COMM 374   Special Topics: Film & Digital Media   (3 Credit Hours)   
These courses offer in-depth experiences in the production, design,
writing and development of ﬁlm and digital media. Course titles and
content vary. May be repeated for up to 9 hours, but only 6 may count
toward the major.
COMM 375   Media Relations   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 210 or 211   
Students learn to develop influence through earned media. Skills taught
include identifying news values, writing/creating multimedia press
releases and media alerts, AP style, media training, creating media
lists using Cision, working with syndication services, search engine
optimization for news releases, creating a social presence and working
with social influencers.
Outcomes:
Students learn to develop influence through earned media and how
to build relationships with the media and other influencers in order to
amplify stories for clients
COMM 378   Advertising/Public Relations Practicum   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 100; GSCM-MS students may also enroll; Restricted
to Juniors and Seniors in the Advertising and Public Relations major;
Department consent is required to enroll   
Students will gain advanced practical experience advertising/public
relations projects.

--- Page 782 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 813
COMM 379   Digital Sustainability   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing; SES undergrads can also enroll   
Digital Sustainability explores the environmental impact of digital media.
Mining precious metals to manufacture devices, burning fossil fuels to
run data centers, global black market trading of e-waste are points where
the digital world meets the physical world. Students will explo re digital
sustainability problems, and work toward creative solutions.
Course equivalencies:  COMM 379 / COMM 479   
Outcomes:
Learn about environmental issues stemming from digital media
infrastructure; Critically evaluate different disciplinary perspectives
to gain a broader understanding; Develop ethical reasoning regarding
environmental impact resulting from digital media ecology
COMM 380   Debate Practicum   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Instructor Consent   
Students gain advanced practical experience in the Loyola Debate
Society.
COMM 381   Communication Practicum   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Department Consent   
Students gain advanced practical experience in service experiential
learning projects. Student must develop a project with a full-
time faculty member in COMM Studies. Paperwork is required:
https://www.luc.edu/media/lucedu/soc/pdfs/resourceforms/
ONLINEDirectedStudyPracticumForm.pdf.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
COMM 382   Multimedia Journalism Practicum   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Students gain hands-on practical experience in developing multimedia
journalism projects. Student must develop a project with a full-time
faculty member in Multimedia Journalism. Paperwork is required:
https://www.luc.edu/media/lucedu/soc/pdfs/resourceforms/
ONLINEDirectedStudyPracticumForm.pdf. Pre-requisites: Department
Consent.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
COMM 383   Radio Practicum   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students will work with WLUW radio station under the supervision of a
faculty member participating in one or several of the following activities:
generating story ideas, booking guests, interviewing guests, doing
promotions using social networking and on-air productions, recording,
editing and producing audio segments, learning several facets of what it
takes to produce a radio show.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
COMM 384   Film & Digital Media Practicum   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Requires Instructor Consent for all majors; DMST may also
enroll with instructor consent   
Students will gain advanced practical experience creating digital cinema
projects. They may choose to focus on a certain role and section--
director/producer, writer, cinematographer, editor, production designer,
sound designer, publicist.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  ICVM384/IFMS384/COMM384   
Outcomes:
Students will gain advanced practical experience producing and
collaborating on digital cinema projectsCOMM 386   Advertising/Public Relations Capstone   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Senior Standing (90 credits earned); Restricted to ADPR
majors   
Students focus on integrating and applying knowledge and skills
related to advertising and public relations. They will research a career
interest area, interview working professionals, and create strategic
communication portfolio materials. Students gain specialized industry
knowledge, improve professional communication competence, and build
contacts.
COMM 387   New and Digital Media Capstone   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students focus on integrating and applying knowledge and skills  related
to new and digital media applications. They will gain specialized research
and industry knowledge and skills, improve professional communication
competencies, and build digital industry contacts.
COMM 388   Film and Digital Media Capstone   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Instructor Consent and Senior Standing; Restricted to
FDMD majors: Students must complete the COMM 388 form, describing
your project, any participants/support materials/technology needed, and
submit to Instructor; Form: https://www.luc.edu/media/lucedu/soc/pdfs/
resourceforms/COMM388Form.pdf   
Project proposal must be approved by the program director and course
supervisor by the end of the ﬁrst week of the semester. A Public
presentation of the project is required. Examples of appropriate capstone
projects include, assisting in the development of a ﬁlm festival or
presentation of a signiﬁcant research project.
Outcomes:
Synthesize previous course work into a public presentation in the
students' area of interest
COMM 389   Advertising Creative Capstone: Portfolio II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 266 and COMM 344; Must be an ADCR major, senior
standing   
Gives students an opportunity to develop new campaigns and reﬁne
existing work. Students receive feedback from advertising professionals
throughout the semester to help them edit and develop their portfolios.
Each member of the class creates a portfolio website and develops a job
search plan. Final portfolios are critiqued by faculty and professionals.
Have a plan for pitching work to potential employees.
Outcomes:
Develop a portfolio of innovative ideas and creative ads across multiple
platforms; Learn skills to critique and edit portfolio material
COMM 391   Advertising/Public Relations Internship   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior Standing (60 credits earned); Completed 18 credit
hours in COMM courses; Restricted to ADPR majors; Instructor Consent;
More info at: https://www.luc.edu/soc/resources/internships/   
This supervised ﬁeld experience enables students to have hands-on
professional learning at a wide range of agency, corporate, and non-
proﬁt organizations as the basis for learning and reﬁning professional
communication skills.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  CMUN396/COM391/392/393/491/492   

--- Page 783 ---
814  Advertising & Public Relations
COMM 392   Multimedia Journalism Internship   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior Standing (60 credits earned); Restricted to MJRN
majors; Instructor Consent required; More info at: https://www.luc.edu/
soc/resources/internships/   
This supervised ﬁeld experience enables students to have hands-on
professional learning at a wide range of agency, corporate, and non-
proﬁt organizations as the basis for learning and reﬁning professional
communication skills.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  CMUN396/COM391/392/393/491/492   
Outcomes:
Students gain proﬁciency in professional conduct and industry skills
while systematically reflecting on their experiences
COMM 393   Communication Studies Internship   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior Standing (60 credits earned); Restricted to CMAS
and CMUN majors; Instructor Consent required; More info at: https://
www.luc.edu/soc/resources/internships/   
This supervised ﬁeld experience enables students to have hands-on
professional learning at a wide range of agency, corporate, and non-
proﬁt organizations as the basis for learning and reﬁning professional
communication skills. Students gain proﬁciency in professional conduct
and industry skills while systematically reflecting on their experiences.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  CMUN396/COM391/392/393/491/492   
COMM 394   Film & Digital Media Internship   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior Standing (60 credits earned); Restricted to FDMD
majors; Instructor Consent required; More info at: https://www.luc.edu/
soc/resources/internships/   
Complete an internship providing an opportunity to use their visual and
technical and/ or skills in a professional setting.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  COMM 394/COMM 494   
Outcomes:
Students work with others to develop and complete projects on
a predetermined schedule; they get the opportunity to learn from
professionals in the ﬁeld; they ﬁnd out how well they are doing as judged
by the world outside the classroom
COMM 398   Directed Study   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Department Consent; Student must develop a project
with a full-time faculty member in their SOC major; Paperwork is
required: https://www.luc.edu/media/lucedu/soc/pdfs/resourceforms/
ONLINEDirectedStudyPracticumForm.pdf   
Course may be taken for variable credit (1-3 hours). Student will work
independently in their area of interest with a supervising faculty member
whose expertise is in that area. Projects may include, but are not limited
to: a reading course, where the student contracts to read and create an
annotated bibliography of research materials; a writing course, where a
student has developed a strong paper for a course and wants to reﬁne it
for possible conference presentation and/or publication, etc.
Advertising & Public Relations
•Advertising & Public Relations (BA)  (p. 814)
•Advertising & Public Relations/Environmental Science and
Sustainability (BA/MS)  (p. 963)
•Advertising & Public Relations/Global Strategic Communication (BA/
MS) (p. 969)
•Advertising & Public Relations/International Affairs (BA/MA)
(p. 972)•Advertising & Public Relations/Marketing (BA/MSM)  (p. 978)
•Public Relations Minor  (p. 816)
Advertising & Public Relations (BA)
In the Advertising/Public Relations Major you will learn to use strategic
communication to develop creative and effective messages delivered
across multiple media platforms for selected audiences. Loyola’s Chicago
location provides close proximity to agencies, brands, and organizations,
giving students the opportunity to get ﬁrst-hand exposure to the industry.
Related Programs
Combined
•Advertising Public Relations/Environmental Science and
Sustainability (BA/MS)  (p. 963)
•Advertising Public Relations/Global Strategic Communication (BA/
MS) (p. 969)
•Advertising Public Relations/Marketing (BA/MSM)  (p. 978)
Curriculum
Students must choose and declare a focus in Advertising, Public
Relations, or Integrated, which determines the speciﬁc three courses they
will take as part of their chosen focus.
Code Title Hours
School of Communication Foundation CoursesCOMM 100SOC Career Prep Seminar1
COMM 175 Introduction to Communication 3COMM 200Digital Communication and Society3
COMM 215 Ethics & Communication 3Required CoursesCOMM 210 Principles of Public Relations 3COMM 211Principles of Advertising3
COMM 213 Digital Foundations 3MARK 201Principles of Marketing3
Research CourseSelect one of the following:3
COMM 363 Research Methods in Advertising/Public RelationsISSCM 241Business StatisticsSTAT 103 Fundamentals of StatisticsSpecialized FocusSelect one of the following focus areas: 9Advertising FocusCOMM 214 Introduction to Creative Concepts 1COMM 317Media PlanningSelect one of the following:COMM 331Social Media AdvertisingCOMM 334 Mobile AdvertisingCOMM 336Search & Display AdvertisingPublic Relations FocusCOMM 314Public Relations CasesCOMM 318 Public Relations Writing 1Select one of the following:COMM 313 Corporate and Organizational Communication

--- Page 784 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 815COMM 320Public Service Communication 2COMM 375 Media RelationsIntegrated FocusSelect one of the following Advertising coursesCOMM 317Media PlanningCOMM 331 Social Media AdvertisingCOMM 334Mobile AdvertisingCOMM 336 Search & Display AdvertisingSelect one of the following Public Relations coursesCOMM 313 Corporate and Organizational CommunicationCOMM 314Public Relations CasesCOMM 320 Public Service Communication 2COMM 375Media RelationsSelect one of the following Writing Intensive coursesCOMM 214Introduction to Creative Concepts 1COMM 318 Public Relations Writing 1Internship & CapstoneCOMM 386 Advertising/Public Relations Capstone 3COMM 391Advertising/Public Relations Internship 23
ElectivesMust choose one (1) COMM course from the list of Electives for AD/
PR. (p. 815)3Any elective from the list of Electives for AD/PR.  (p. 815)3Total Hours46
1Writing Intensive  (p. 800)
2Satisﬁes Engaged Learning  (p. 1417 ) requirement.
List of Approved Electives
Code Title Hours
Advertising and Public Relations ElectivesCOMM 101Public Speaking & Critical Thinking3or COMM 103Business & Professional Speaking
COMM 205 Reporting Basics I: Writing and Interviewing 13COMM 212International Advertising 33
COMM 214 Introduction to Creative Concepts 13COMM 266Advertising Copywriting 13
COMM 268 Persuasion 3COMM 278International Public Relations (abroad)3
COMM 282 Media Law 3COMM 290Branding and Positioning3
COMM 296 Themes in Advertising/Public Relations 3COMM 311Health Communication3
COMM 312 Special Events Planning 3COMM 313Corporate and Organizational Communication3
COMM 314 Public Relations Cases 3COMM 317Media Planning3
COMM 318 Public Relations Writing 13COMM 320Public Service Communication 23
COMM 321 Advertising Campaigns 3COMM 329Advertising and Public Relations Design3
COMM 330 Intermediate Advertising Design 3COMM 331Social Media Advertising3
COMM 334 Mobile Advertising 3COMM 335AI in Advertising3
COMM 336 Search & Display Advertising 3COMM 337AD/PR Multimedia Commercial Production 23
COMM 345 Student Agency 43COMM 370Special Topics in Advertising & Public Relations3
COMM 375 Media Relations 3COMM 398Directed Study1-3
Interdisciplinary ElectivesFNAR 132Visual Communication I3
FNAR 233 Digital Media Design 3FNAR 383Interactive Design3
MARK 310 Consumer Behavior 3MARK 311Marketing Research3
MARK 363 International Marketing 3MARK 380Digital Marketing3
1Writing Intensive  (https://www.luc.edu/soc/undergrad/
soclanguagerequirement/#den103333 )
2Satisﬁes Engaged Learning  (https://www.luc.edu/engagedlearning/ )
requirement.
3At the  John Felice Rome Center  (https://www.luc.edu/rome/
index.shtml/ )
4Inigo  (https://www.inigocomm.com/ )
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
First Year
FallCOMM 175Introduction to Communication3 Hours3
Spring
COMM 210 Principles of Public Relations 3COMM 211Principles of Advertising3 Hours6
Second Year
FallCOMM 200 
or COMM 215Digital Communication and Society 
or Ethics & Communication3 Hours3
SpringCOMM 200 
or COMM 215Digital Communication and Society ( if not
already taken ) 
or Ethics & Communication3
COMM 213 Digital Foundations 3MARK 201Principles of Marketing3 Hours9

--- Page 785 ---
816  Public Relations Minor
Third Year
FallCOMM 100SOC Career Prep Seminar1
Major Track Course 3Major Track Course3Major Elective3 Hours10
Spring
Major Track Course 3Major Elective3Research Course3 Hours9
Fourth Year
FallCOMM 386 
or COMM 391Advertising/Public Relations Capstone 
or Advertising/Public Relations
Internship3 Hours3
SpringCOMM 386 
or COMM 391Advertising/Public Relations Capstone ( if
not already taken ) 
or Advertising/Public Relations
Internship3 Hours3 Total Hours46
School of Communication Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the School of Communication are required
to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as complete
a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit hours) or a
language competency test.  More information can be found here  (https://
www.luc.edu/soc/undergrad/soclanguagerequirement/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Create and implement strategic communication campaigns that
integrate advertising, public relations and integrated marketing
communication, and are responsive to community needs and
organizational goals in local and global contexts.
•Write copy and design messages to reach diverse publics and for
distribution through multiple channels, including both traditional and
digital media.
•Understand the implications and applications of integrated strategies
for digital media in marketing, advertising and public relations
practices.•Apply appropriate research methods to plan, monitor and evaluate
public relations, advertising and other communication campaigns and
activities.
•Practice ethical communication in professional practices that are
socially responsible and in the mutual interests of the organization
and the community.
•Demonstrate the competencies to work as an entry-level professional
in advertising or public relations.
Public Relations Minor
A Minor in Public Relations complements other majors as most ca reers
require understanding of internal and external communications. Studying
public relations will enable students to better communicate with
customers, clients, audiences, supervisors, and teammates. Students
will study the variety of communication strategies, tactics, and media
platforms public relations practitioners use to build and maintain positive
relationships and favorable images for clients. Common job areas include
media relations, event planning, corporate communications, content
creator, crises management, publicity, public affairs, and government
relations. A Minor in Public Relations would offer beneﬁts to students
in multiple disciplines, including Business, Marketing, English, Theater,
Fine Arts, Political Science, Healthcare, Environmental Sustainability,
Education, Women and Gender Studies, and Social Work.
Related Programs
Major
•Advertising Public Relations (BA)  (p. 814)
Combined
•Advertising Public Relations/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 972)
•Advertising Public Relations/Marketing (BA/MSM)  (p. 978)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
School of Communication CoreCOMM 175Introduction to Communication3
Public Relations Foundation CoursesCOMM 210Principles of Public Relations3
COMM 213 Digital Foundations 3Public Relations Focus CoursesCOMM 314 Public Relations Cases 3COMM 318Public Relations Writing 13
ElectivesSelect two of the following:6
COMM 101 Public Speaking & Critical Thinking
or COMM 103 Business & Professional SpeakingCOMM 205Reporting Basics I: Writing and Interviewing 1COMM 268 PersuasionCOMM 278International Public RelationsCOMM 282 Media LawCOMM 290Branding and PositioningCOMM 311 Health CommunicationCOMM 312Special Events PlanningCOMM 313 Corporate and Organizational CommunicationCOMM 317Media Planning

--- Page 786 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 817
COMM 320 Public Service Communication 2COMM 329Advertising and Public Relations DesignCOMM 331 Social Media AdvertisingCOMM 334Mobile AdvertisingCOMM 336 Search & Display AdvertisingCOMM 337AD/PR Multimedia Commercial Production 2COMM 345 Student Agency 3COMM 370Special Topics in Advertising & Public RelationsCOMM 375 Media RelationsCOMM 391Advertising/Public Relations Internship 2Total Hours21
1Writing Intensive  (p. 799)
2Satisﬁes Engaged Learning  (p. 1417 ) requirement
3Inigo  (https://www.inigocomm.com/ )
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Sophomore
FallCOMM 175Introduction to Communication3 Hours3
SpringCOMM 210Principles of Public Relations3 Hours3
Junior
FallCOMM 213Digital Foundations3 Hours3
SpringCOMM 318Public Relations Writing3 Hours3
Senior
FallCOMM 314Public Relations Cases3 Hours3
Spring
Minor Elective #1 3Minor Elective #23 Hours6 Total Hours21
Learning Outcomes
•Learn how to create and implement strategic public relations
communication campaigns for industry products and services that
are relevant to consumer needs and wants.•Write and design messages to reach diverse audiences and for
distribution through multiple channels, including both traditional and
digital media.
•Implement ethical communication practices that are socially
responsible and in the mutual interests of the organization and the
community. 
Advertising Creative
•Advertising Creative (BA)  (p. 817)
•Advertising Creative/Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/
MS) (p. 982)
•Advertising Creative/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 987)
•Advertising Minor  (p. 819)
Advertising Creative (BA)
The Advertising Creative program offers students the opportunity to earn
a four-year degree and build a career-ready creative portfolio, all while
developing a well-rounded set of critical skills and a deep sense of ethics
and responsibility. Students in this program prepare for careers in art
direction, copywriting, production, and other creative roles at agencies
and other organizations.
Related Programs
Minor
•Advertising Minor  (p. 819)
Combined
•Advertising Creative/Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/
MS) (p. 982)
•Advertising Creative/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 987)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
School of Communication Foundation CoursesCOMM 100SOC Career Prep Seminar1
COMM 175 Introduction to Communication 3COMM 200Digital Communication and Society3
COMM 215 Ethics & Communication 3Required CoursesCOMM 210 Principles of Public Relations 3COMM 211Principles of Advertising3
COMM 213 Digital Foundations 3MARK 201Principles of Marketing3
Research CourseSelect one of the following:3
COMM 363 Research Methods in Advertising/Public RelationsISSCM 241Business StatisticsSTAT 103 Fundamentals of StatisticsSpecialized FocusCOMM 214 Introduction to Creative Concepts 13COMM 266Advertising Copywriting 13
COMM 290 Branding and Positioning 3COMM 329Advertising and Public Relations Design3

--- Page 787 ---
818  Advertising Creative (BA)or COMM 330Intermediate Advertising Design
COMM 344 Portfolio I 3Internship & CapstoneCOMM 389 Advertising Creative Capstone: Portfolio II 3COMM 391Advertising/Public Relations Internship 23
ElectivesMust be a COMM course from the list of approved electives.
(p. 818)3Any course from the list of approved electives.  (p. 818)3Total Hours52
1Writing Intensive  (p. 800)
2Satisﬁes Engaged Learning  (p. 1417 ) requirement.
List of Approved Electives
Code Title Hours
Advertising Creative ElectivesCOMM 101Public Speaking & Critical Thinking3or COMM 103Business & Professional Speaking
COMM 135 Intro to Video Production 3COMM 205Reporting Basics I: Writing and Interviewing 13
COMM 212 International Advertising 33COMM 268Persuasion3
COMM 278 International Public Relations (abroad) 3COMM 282Media Law3
COMM 296 Themes in Advertising/Public Relations 3COMM 311Health Communication3
COMM 312 Special Events Planning 3COMM 313Corporate and Organizational Communication3
COMM 314 Public Relations Cases 3COMM 317Media Planning3
COMM 318 Public Relations Writing 13COMM 320Public Service Communication 23
COMM 321 Advertising Campaigns 3COMM 329Advertising and Public Relations Design 53
COMM 330 Intermediate Advertising Design 53COMM 331Social Media Advertising3
COMM 334 Mobile Advertising 3COMM 335AI in Advertising3
COMM 336 Search & Display Advertising 3COMM 337AD/PR Multimedia Commercial Production 23
COMM 345 Student Agency 43COMM 370Special Topics in Advertising & Public Relations3
COMM 375 Media Relations 3COMM 398Directed Study1-3
Interdisciplinary ElectivesFNAR 132Visual Communication I3
FNAR 233 Digital Media Design 3FNAR 383Interactive Design3
MARK 310 Consumer Behavior 3MARK 311Marketing Research3MARK 363 International Marketing 3MARK 380Digital Marketing3
1Writing Intensive  (p. 800)
2Satisﬁes Engaged Learning  (p. 1417 ) requirement.
3At the  John Felice Rome Center  (https://www.luc.edu/rome/
index.shtml/ )
4Inigo  (https://www.inigocomm.com/ )
5Can be taken as an elective if not taken for Specialized Focus.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
First Year
FallCOMM 175Introduction to Communication3 Hours3
Spring
COMM 210 Principles of Public Relations 3COMM 211Principles of Advertising3 Hours6
Second Year
FallCOMM 200Digital Communication and Society3COMM 215Ethics & Communication3 Hours6
Spring
COMM 213 Digital Foundations 3COMM 214Introduction to Creative Concepts3MARK 201Principles of Marketing3 Hours9
Third Year
Fall
COMM 100 SOC Career Prep Seminar 1COMM 266Advertising Copywriting3
COMM 290 Branding and Positioning 3Major Elective3 Hours10
SpringCOMM 329 
or COMM 330Advertising and Public Relations Design 
or Intermediate Advertising Design3
COMM 391 Advertising/Public Relations Internship 3Research Course3 Hours9
Fourth Year
FallCOMM 344Portfolio I3Major Elective3 Hours6

--- Page 788 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 819
SpringCOMM 389Advertising Creative Capstone: Portfolio II3 Hours3 Total Hours52
School of Communication Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the School of Communication are required
to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as complete
a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit hours) or a
language competency test.  More information can be found here  (https://
www.luc.edu/soc/undergrad/soclanguagerequirement/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Gain knowledge for how creative strategies bring insights into
focus to meet challenges and solve problems for industry and
organizations.
•Understand the creative process employed for developing big ideas
that can be used across multiple and changing communication
platforms.
•Demonstrate skills for writing copy and designing messages in
traditional and digital media.
•Enhance skills for creating content that is relevant and delivers
strategy.
•Apply ethical and inclusive decision making throughout the creation
of communications.
•Develop a professional portfolio of creative material.
Advertising Minor
Students pursuing an Advertising Minor learn about the dynamic and
complex advertising industry, such as consumer insights, strategic
planning, account management, design, media, creative, production, and
branding. Typical job areas include market research, graphic design,
account service, art director, copywriting, content creator, influencer
management, media planning/buying, special event planning, and
account management.
The Advertising Minor would be of interest to students in a variety of
academics, such as Theater, Fine Arts, Graphic Design, English, Business,
Marketing, Psychology, Sociology, Anthropology, Political Science, History,
and Women and Gender Studies.
Related Programs
Major
•Advertising Creative (BA)  (p. 817)Combined
•Advertising Creative/Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/
MS) (p. 982)
•Advertising Creative/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 987)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
School of Communication CoreCOMM 175Introduction to Communication3
Advertising Foundation CoursesCOMM 211Principles of Advertising3
COMM 213 Digital Foundations 3Advertising Focus CoursesCOMM 214 Introduction to Creative Concepts 13COMM 317Media Planning3
ElectivesSelect two of the following:6
COMM 101 Public Speaking & Critical Thinking
or COMM 103 Business & Professional SpeakingCOMM 205Reporting Basics I: Writing and Interviewing 1COMM 212 International Advertising (at the John Felice Rome
Center)COMM 266Advertising Copywriting 1COMM 268 PersuasionCOMM 282Media LawCOMM 290 Branding and PositioningCOMM 296Themes in Advertising/Public RelationsCOMM 311 Health CommunicationCOMM 312Special Events PlanningCOMM 321 Advertising CampaignsCOMM 329Advertising and Public Relations DesignCOMM 331 Social Media AdvertisingCOMM 334Mobile AdvertisingCOMM 336 Search & Display AdvertisingCOMM 337AD/PR Multimedia Commercial Production 2COMM 345 Student Agency 3COMM 370Special Topics in Advertising & Public RelationsCOMM 391Advertising/Public Relations Internship 2Total Hours21
1Writing Intensive  (p. 800)
2Satisﬁes  Engaged Learning  (p. 1417 ) requirement
3Inigo  (https://www.inigocomm.com/ )
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.

--- Page 789 ---
820  Advocacy and Social Change
Course Title Hours
Sophomore
FallCOMM 175Introduction to Communication3 Hours3
SpringCOMM 211Principles of Advertising3 Hours3
Junior
FallCOMM 213Digital Foundations3 Hours3
SpringCOMM 214Introduction to Creative Concepts3 Hours3
Senior
FallCOMM 317Media Planning3 Hours3
Spring
Minor Elective #1 3Minor Elective #23 Hours6 Total Hours21
Learning Outcomes
•Understand the dynamic and complex advertising industry, such as
consumer insights, strategic planning, account management, design,
media, creative, production, and branding.
•Identify roles involved in advertising development such as market
research, graphic design, account service, art director, copywriting,
content creator, influencer management, media planning/buying,
special event planning, and account/strategic planning.
•Practice ethical communication in professional practices that are
socially responsible and in the mutual interests of the organization
and the community.
•Apply competencies to work as an entry-level professional in
advertising or public relations.
Advocacy and Social Change
•Advocacy and Social Change (BA)  (p. 820)
•Advocacy and Social Change/Environmental Science and
Sustainability (BA/MS)  (p. 992)
•Advocacy and Social Change/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 998)
•Advocacy and Social Change Minor  (p. 822)
Advocacy and Social Change (BA)
The mission of Loyola University Chicago calls for all of its members
“to make a difference as ‘persons for others. ’” The advocacy and social
change major helps students prepare for the fulﬁllment of that mission,
not only while at the university, but also as they move into the rest of their
lives.The program’s coursework and faculty help students understand
everything from community organizing to lobbying to political campaigns,
preparing them for a number of possible career paths. Students will
explore and reflect on how to promote social justice in coursework, but
also through engagement outside of the classroom.
Recent graduates have found employment with media literacy groups,
domestic and international service organizations, Internet start-ups, and
government ofﬁcials, and gone on to pursue graduate and professional
degrees.
Related Programs
Minor
•Advocacy and Social Change Minor  (p. 822)
Combined
•Advocacy and Social Change/Environmental Science and
Sustainability (BA/MS)  (p. 992)
•Advocacy and Social Change/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 998)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
School of Communication Foundation CoursesCOMM 100SOC Career Prep Seminar1
COMM 175 Introduction to Communication 3COMM 200Digital Communication and Society3
COMM 215 Ethics & Communication 3
or COMM 360 Digital Media EthicsTheory/Critical AnalysisCOMM 220 Introduction to Rhetoric 3
or COMM 268 PersuasionSelect two of the following:6
COMM 201 Media Theory and CriticismCOMM 220Introduction to RhetoricCOMM 227 Social Justice & CommunicationCOMM 258Game StudiesCOMM 268 PersuasionCOMM 272Intercultural CommunicationCOMM 277 Organizational CommunicationCOMM 280Media Technology & SocietyCOMM 379 Digital SustainabilityAppliedCOMM 230 Argumentation & Advocacy 3Select two of the following:6
COMM 231 Conflict Management and CommunicationCOMM 236Persuasive PresentationsCOMM 237 Small Group CommunicationCOMM 306Environmental AdvocacyCOMM 309 Designing Media for Social ChangeCOMM 323Remixing CultureResearch MethodsSelect one of the following:3
COMM 361 New Media Criticism 1COMM 365Naturalistic Methods Communication Research 2

--- Page 790 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 821
COMM 367 Rhetorical Criticism 1COMM 368Ethnographic Research Methods in
Communication 2ElectivesSelect any four electives from the list of Approved Electives if not
taken to satisfy requirements above.  (p. 821)12Total Hours43
1Writing Intensive  (p. 799)
2Satisﬁes Engaged Learning  (p. 1417 ) requirement.
Approved Electives
Code Title Hours
COMM 101 Public Speaking & Critical Thinking 3COMM 201Media Theory and Criticism3
COMM 206 Hip Hop Culture and Social Change 3COMM 215Ethics & Communication3
COMM 220 Introduction to Rhetoric 3COMM 227Social Justice & Communication3
COMM 231 Conflict Management and Communication 3COMM 236Persuasive Presentations3
COMM 237 Small Group Communication 3COMM 258Game Studies3
COMM 268 Persuasion 3COMM 272Intercultural Communication3
COMM 277 Organizational Communication 3COMM 280Media Technology & Society3
COMM 281 Communication, Language & Gender 3COMM 297Themes in Communication Studies3
COMM 303 Media, Politics, & Propaganda 3COMM 304Rhetorics of Utopia & Revolution3
COMM 306 Environmental Advocacy 3COMM 307Communication & Social Movements3
COMM 309 Designing Media for Social Change 3COMM 311Health Communication3
COMM 323 Remixing Culture 3COMM 360Digital Media Ethics3
COMM 361 New Media Criticism 3COMM 365Naturalistic Methods Communication Research3
COMM 367 Rhetorical Criticism 3COMM 368Ethnographic Research Methods in
Communication3
COMM 371 Special Topics Communication Studies 3COMM 379Digital Sustainability3
COMM 381 Communication Practicum 1-3COMM 393Communication Studies Internship3
COMM 398 Directed Study 1-3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as thestart term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
First Year
FallCOMM 175Introduction to Communication3 Hours3
SpringCOMM 200Digital Communication and Society3 Hours3
Second Year
Fall
COMM 215 
or COMM 360Ethics & Communication 
or Digital Media Ethics3COMM 220 
or COMM 268Introduction to Rhetoric 
or Persuasion3 Hours6
SpringMajor Elective3 Hours3
Third Year
FallCOMM 100SOC Career Prep Seminar1
COMM 230 Argumentation & Advocacy 3Theory Course3 Hours7
SpringApplied Course3Major Elective3 Hours6
Fourth Year
Fall
Major Elective 3Applied Course3Theory Course3 Hours9
SpringResearch Methods3 Hours3 Total Hours40
School of Communication Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the School of Communication are required
to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as complete
a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit hours) or a
language competency test.  More information can be found here  (https://
www.luc.edu/soc/undergrad/soclanguagerequirement/ ).

--- Page 791 ---
822  Advocacy and Social Change Minor
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Select and use various communication strategies (including
persuasion, argumentation, conflict management, negotiation and
mediation) leading to ethical social change.
•Create, deﬁne, analyze, and interpret messages.
•Demonstrate effectiveness as rhetors, critics and decision makers.
•Serve the needs of diverse groups, communities and organizations
which strive for equity, inclusion and fairness.
Advocacy and Social Change Minor
The mission of Loyola University Chicago calls for all of its members
“to make a difference as “persons for others. ” The Advocacy and Social
Change minor helps students understand how that mission can be
carried on through engaged communication while at the University and
for the rest of their lives.
Through a course load of 21 Credit Hours, students will gain a deeper
understanding of the role of communication in advocating for others and
in promoting positive social change.
The skills students acquire from this minor will enrich any course of
study. They will also facilitate employment in pro-social areas such as
media literacy groups, domestic and international service organizations,
Internet start-ups, NGOs and government agencies concerned with social
welfare.
Related Programs
Major
•Advocacy and Social Change (BA)  (p. 820)
Combined
•Advocacy and Social Change/Environmental Science and
Sustainability (BA/MS)  (p. 992)
•Advocacy and Social Change/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 998)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesCOMM 175Introduction to Communication3
COMM 220 Introduction to Rhetoric 3COMM 227Social Justice & Communication3
COMM 230 Argumentation & Advocacy 3COMM 236Persuasive Presentations3
COMM 268 Persuasion 3Elective Courses  (p.  )Select one of the following: 3COMM 215Ethics & CommunicationCOMM 231 Conflict Management and CommunicationCOMM 281Communication, Language & Gender 1COMM 306 Environmental AdvocacyCOMM 307Communication & Social MovementsTotal Hours21
1Satisﬁes  Engaged Learning  (p. 1417 ) requirement.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Sophomore
FallCOMM 175Introduction to Communication3 Hours3
SpringCOMM 227Social Justice & Communication3 Hours3
Junior
Fall
COMM 220 Introduction to Rhetoric 3COMM 230Argumentation & Advocacy3 Hours6
SpringCOMM 236Persuasive Presentations3 Hours3
Senior
FallCOMM 268Persuasion3 Hours3
SpringMinor Elective3 Hours3 Total Hours21
Learning Outcomes
•Understand the role that communication plays in upholding, changing
or transforming social hierarchies, institutions, and identities.
•Select and use various communication strategies (including
persuasion, argumentation, conflict management, negotiation, and
mediation) leading to ethical social change.
•Use communication skills and knowledge to create, deﬁne, analyze,
interpret, and critique messages, texts, campaigns, and projects.
•Demonstrate effectiveness as rhetors, critics and decision makers.
•Serve the needs of diverse groups, communities and organizations
which strive for equity, diversity, inclusion, and social justice.

--- Page 792 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 823
Communication Studies
•Communication Studies (BA)  (p. 823)
•Communication Studies/Environmental Science and Sustainability
(BA/MS)  (p. 1057 )
•Communication Studies/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1062 )
•Communication Studies Minor  (p. 825)
•Environmental Communication Minor  (p. 826)
•Professional Communication Minor  (p. 828)
Communication Studies (BA)
The communication studies major proudly places itself at the
intersection of theory and practice. Its students are led to understand and
to use, to critique and to appreciate, to embrace communication as it is
presently practiced in society and to hone it for more effective service to
the human community. Our communication studies majors beneﬁt from
our unparalleled location within the scholarly Loyola community and in
the midst of the Chicago media hub.
Communication studies courses help students understand how
communication can persuade, comfort, alienate, or bring the world
together.
Related Programs
Minor
•Communication Studies Minor  (p. 825)
•Environmental Communication Minor  (p. 826)
Combined
•Communication Studies/Environmental Science and Sustainability
(BA/MS)  (p. 1057 )
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
School of Communication Foundation CoursesCOMM 100SOC Career Prep Seminar1
COMM 175 Introduction to Communication 3COMM 200Digital Communication and Society3
COMM 215 Ethics & Communication 3
or COMM 360 Digital Media EthicsTheory/Critical AnalysisSelect two of the following: 6COMM 201Media Theory and CriticismCOMM 220 Introduction to RhetoricCOMM 227Social Justice & CommunicationCOMM 258 Game StudiesCOMM 268PersuasionCOMM 272 Intercultural CommunicationCOMM 273Interpersonal CommunicationCOMM 277 Organizational CommunicationCOMM 280Media Technology & SocietyCOMM 281 Communication, Language & Gender 2COMM 379Digital SustainabilityAppliedSelect two of the following:6
COMM 230 Argumentation & AdvocacyCOMM 231Conflict Management and CommunicationCOMM 234 Interviewing for CommunicationCOMM 236Persuasive PresentationsCOMM 237 Small Group CommunicationCOMM 306Environmental AdvocacyCOMM 307 Communication & Social MovementsCOMM 309Designing Media for Social ChangeCOMM 323 Remixing CultureResearch Methods/CapstoneSelect one of the following: 3COMM 361New Media Criticism 1COMM 365 Naturalistic Methods Communication Research 2COMM 367Rhetorical Criticism 1COMM 368 Ethnographic Research Methods in
Communication 2Communication & CommunitySelect one of the following: 3COMM 204Community as StoryCOMM 227 Social Justice & CommunicationCOMM 237Small Group CommunicationCOMM 320 Public Service Communication 2COMM 339Video Documentary 2COMM 381 Communication PracticumCOMM 393Communication Studies Internship 2ElectivesSelect any *four* electives from the list of Approved Electives if not
taken to satisfy requirements above.  (p. 823)12Total Hours40
1Writing Intensive  (p. 800)
2Satisﬁes  Engaged Learning  (p. 1417 ) requirement.
Approved Electives
Code Title Hours
COMM 101 Public Speaking & Critical Thinking 3COMM 130Intro to Audio Production3
COMM 135 Intro to Video Production 3
or COMM 145 Video for JournalistsCOMM 140Intercollegiate Debate 41
COMM 201 Media Theory and Criticism 3COMM 202Story for Film and Television 13
COMM 203 Topics in Cinema History 3COMM 204Community as Story3
COMM 205 Reporting Basics I: Writing and Interviewing 13COMM 206Hip Hop Culture and Social Change3
COMM 207 Photojournalism 3COMM 208Reporting Basics II: Technology for Journalists3
COMM 210 Principles of Public Relations 3COMM 211Principles of Advertising3
COMM 213 Digital Foundations 3COMM 214Introduction to Creative Concepts 13

--- Page 793 ---
824  Communication Studies (BA)
COMM 215 Ethics & Communication 3COMM 220Introduction to Rhetoric3
COMM 227 Social Justice & Communication 3COMM 230Argumentation & Advocacy3
COMM 231 Conflict Management and Communication 3COMM 232Cinematography I3
COMM 234 Interviewing for Communication 3COMM 236Persuasive Presentations3
COMM 237 Small Group Communication 3COMM 256Broadcast Newswriting 13
COMM 258 Game Studies 3COMM 259News Editing3
COMM 260 Environmental Journalism 13COMM 261Social Media3
COMM 262 Feature & Opinion Writing 13COMM 263Editorial Design I: Newspaper & Online3
COMM 265 Sports Broadcasting 3COMM 266Advertising Copywriting 13
COMM 268 Persuasion 3COMM 271Media Culture and Communication3
COMM 272 Intercultural Communication 3COMM 273Interpersonal Communication3
COMM 274 Introduction to Cinema 3COMM 275Web Design and Usability3
COMM 277 Organizational Communication 3COMM 278International Public Relations (abroad)3
COMM 280 Media Technology & Society 3COMM 281Communication, Language & Gender 23
COMM 296 Themes in Advertising/Public Relations 3COMM 297Themes in Communication Studies3
COMM 298 Themes in Multimedia Journalism 3COMM 299Themes in Film and Digital Media3
COMM 303 Media, Politics, & Propaganda 3COMM 304Rhetorics of Utopia & Revolution3
COMM 306 Environmental Advocacy 3COMM 307Communication & Social Movements3
COMM 308 Screen Directing 3COMM 309Designing Media for Social Change3
COMM 310 Production Design 3COMM 311Health Communication3
COMM 312 Special Events Planning 3COMM 313Corporate and Organizational Communication3
COMM 314 Public Relations Cases 3COMM 315Advanced Reporting Topics 1,23
COMM 317 Media Planning 3COMM 318Public Relations Writing 13
COMM 320 Public Service Communication 23COMM 321Advertising Campaigns3
COMM 322 Guerilla Media 3COMM 323Remixing Culture3
COMM 324 Film Genre 3COMM 326Screenwriting 13COMM 327 Mastering Video Reporting and Storytelling 3COMM 328Editorial Design II: Magazine & Interactive3
COMM 329 Advertising and Public Relations Design 3COMM 330Intermediate Advertising Design3
COMM 331 Social Media Advertising 3COMM 332Investigative & Public Affairs Reporting3
COMM 333 Cinematography II 3COMM 334Mobile Advertising3
COMM 336 Search & Display Advertising 3COMM 337AD/PR Multimedia Commercial Production 23
COMM 338 Narrative Production 3COMM 339Video Documentary 23
COMM 345 Student Agency 53COMM 350Producing for Film & Digital Media3
COMM 357 Programming Film & Media: Festivals, TV & Digital 3COMM 358Newscasting and Producing3
COMM 359 Advanced Post Production 3COMM 360Digital Media Ethics3
COMM 361 New Media Criticism 13COMM 365Naturalistic Methods Communication Research 23
COMM 367 Rhetorical Criticism 13COMM 368Ethnographic Research Methods in
Communication 23
COMM 370 Special Topics in Advertising & Public Relations 3COMM 371Special Topics Communication Studies3
COMM 372 Special Topics: Multimedia Journalism 3COMM 373Digital Storytelling Abroad 23
COMM 374 Special Topics: Film & Digital Media 3COMM 375Media Relations3
COMM 379 Digital Sustainability 3COMM 380Debate Practicum3
COMM 381 Communication Practicum 1-3COMM 393Communication Studies Internship 2,33
COMM 398 Directed Study 1-3
1Writing Intensive  (p. 800)
2Satisﬁes  Engaged Learning  (p. 1417 ) requirement.
3Internship  (https://www.luc.edu/soc/resources/internships/ )
4Requires instructor approval.
5Inigo  (https://www.inigocomm.com/ )
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
First Year
FallCOMM 175Introduction to Communication3 Hours3

--- Page 794 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 825
SpringCOMM 200Digital Communication and Society3 Hours3
Second Year
Fall
COMM 215 
or COMM 360Ethics & Communication 
or Digital Media Ethics3Applied Course3Theory Course3 Hours9
Spring
Applied Course 3Theory Course3 Hours6
Third Year
FallCommunication & Community Course3
Major Elective 3COMM 100SOC Career Prep Seminar1 Hours7
SpringMajor Elective3Major Elective3 Hours6
Fourth Year
FallMajor Elective3 Hours3
SpringResearch Methods Course3 Hours3 Total Hours40
School of Communication Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the School of Communication are required
to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as complete
a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit hours) or a
language competency test.  More information can be found here  (https://
www.luc.edu/soc/undergrad/soclanguagerequirement/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Identify some of the fundamental communication issues that our
contemporary world face, and the ways in which the communication
ﬁeld approaches and interprets them.•Remember the situated, contextual and historical nature of
communication processes and practices.
•Identify the relationship between communication processes and
practices and the construction and transformation of human
identities, communities, and cultures.
•Assess, interpret and use communication research to apply and
generate communication knowledge.
•Use communication skills and knowledge to produce messages,
texts, campaigns, and projects.
•Formulate creative, culturally literate, and convincing oral, written,
and multimodal arguments which are responsive to context and
situation.
•See the crucial role that communication holds in advancing or
deterring social justice.
•Apply communication knowledge and perform communication
skills within different social contexts, such as interpersonal
communication, group communication, intercultural communication,
gender and communication, and traditional and new media platforms.
Communication Studies Minor
The communication studies minor equips students to understand
the fundamental communication social issues faced by our globalized
world. They come to appreciate how communication can persuade,
comfort, alienate, or bring the world together.
This 18 credit minor will help students learn to use communication skills
to produce messages, texts, campaigns, and projects in a way that is
creative, culturally literate and convincing. Because of this, the minor is a
very good complement for majors in the College of Arts and Sciences as
well as Education, Business, and Social Work.
Related Programs
Major
•Communication Studies (BA)  (p. 823)
Minor
•Professional Communication Minor  (p. 828)
Combined
•Communication Studies/Environmental Science and Sustainability
(BA/MS)  (p. 1057 )
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Required CourseCOMM 175Introduction to Communication3
ElectivesSelect ﬁve from the following menus—two of these courses must be
selected from at least two different menus.15
Menu 1: Theory/Critical AnalysisCOMM 215Ethics & CommunicationCOMM 220 Introduction to RhetoricCOMM 227Social Justice & CommunicationCOMM 268 PersuasionCOMM 271Media Culture and CommunicationCOMM 272 Intercultural Communication

--- Page 795 ---
826  Environmental Communication MinorCOMM 273Interpersonal CommunicationCOMM 274 Introduction to CinemaCOMM 277Organizational CommunicationMenu 2: AppliedCOMM 130Intro to Audio ProductionCOMM 135 Intro to Video ProductionCOMM 230Argumentation & AdvocacyCOMM 231 Conflict Management and CommunicationCOMM 232Cinematography ICOMM 234 Interviewing for CommunicationCOMM 236Persuasive PresentationsCOMM 237 Small Group CommunicationCOMM 275Web Design and UsabilityCOMM 306 Environmental AdvocacyCOMM 309Designing Media for Social ChangeCOMM 361 New Media Criticism 1Menu 3: Research MethodsCOMM 365 Naturalistic Methods Communication Research 2COMM 367Rhetorical Criticism 1COMM 368 Ethnographic Research Methods in
Communication 2Menu 4: General Communication ElectivesAny COMM course not previously taken to satisfy a requirementTotal Hours18
1Writing Intensive  (p. 800)
2Satisﬁes  Engaged Learning  (p. 1417 ) requirement.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Sophomore
FallCOMM 175Introduction to Communication3 Hours3
SpringMinor Elective #1  13 Hours3
Junior
FallMinor Elective #2  13 Hours3
SpringMinor Elective #3  13 Hours3Senior
FallMinor Elective #4  13 Hours3
SpringMinor Elective #5  13 Hours3 Total Hours18
1Two (2) courses must come from different menus: Theory/Critical
Analysis, Applied, Research Methods, any COMM class not previously
taken.
Learning Outcomes
•Learn how the communication ﬁeld interprets and approaches
fundamental communication social issues faced by our globalized
world.
•Understand the situated, contextual, and historical nature of
communication processes and practices.
•Identify the relationship between communication processes and
practices and the construction and transformation of human
identities, communities, and cultures.
•Use communication skills and knowledge to produce messages,
texts, campaigns, and projects.
•Formulate creative, culturally literate, and convincing oral, written,
and multimodal arguments which are responsive to context and
situation.
Environmental Communication Minor
The Environmental Communication minor is a collaborative effort
between the School of Communication and the School of Environmental
Sustainability. This 18 credit minor equips students with a deeper
understanding of the role of communication in effectively advocating for
environmental sustainability.
The minor is enriched with access to state-of-the-art facilities at the
Lakeshore and Water Tower campuses. At Lakeshore, the facilities of the
School of Environmental Sustainability are designed to minimize energy
use, reduce waste, and conserve water.  At Water Tower, the School of
Communication offers students on-site multi-media production facilities,
labs, and specialized equipment.
The skills student acquire from this minor will prepare them for future
work in environmental advocacy across diverse platforms.
Related Programs
Major
•Communication Studies (BA)  (p. 823)
Minor
•Communication Studies Minor  (p. 825)
Combined
•Communication Studies/Environmental Science and Sustainability
(BA/MS)  (p. 1057 )

--- Page 796 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 827
Curriculum
Only three courses may count toward an SoC or SES major and the
Environmental Communication minor. Please consult your academic
advisor with any questions.
Code Title Hours
Environmental CoursesSelect two of the following:6
ENVS 218 Biodiversity & BiogeographyENVS 224Climate & Climate ChangeENVS 273 Energy and the EnvironmentENVS 283Environmental Sustainability 2Communication CoursesSelect two of the following:6
COMM 130 Intro to Audio ProductionCOMM 135Intro to Video Productionor COMM 145Video for Journalists
COMM 210 Principles of Public RelationsCOMM 213Digital FoundationsCOMM 236 Persuasive PresentationsCOMM 260Environmental Journalism (spring only) 1COMM 275 Web Design and UsabilityCOMM 309Designing Media for Social Changeor COMM 322Guerilla Media
COMM 282 Media Law
or COMM 362 Multimedia Journalism Research MethodsElective OptionsSelect one each from Lists A and B: 6List A:COMM 227 Social Justice & CommunicationCOMM 306Environmental AdvocacyCOMM 307 Communication & Social MovementsCOMM 379Digital SustainabilityList B:ENVS 204Gender, Health & EnvironmentENVS 207 Plants and CivilizationENVS 218Biodiversity & BiogeographyENVS 226 Science & Conservation of Freshwater EcosystemsENVS 273Energy and the EnvironmentENVS 279 Climate and History 1ENVS 283Environmental Sustainability 2ENVS 284 Environmental JusticeENVS 297North American Environmental History 1ENVS 310 Introduction to Environmental Law & PolicyENVS 311Natural Resources and Land Use Law & PolicyENVS 312 Water Law & PolicyENVS 313Energy Law & PolicyENVS 338 Climate Change and Human HealthENVS 350ASolutions to Environmental Problems: Water 2ENVS 350B Solutions to Environmental Problems: Biogas 2ENVS 350CSolutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
Action 2ENVS 350FSolutions to Environmental Problems: Food
Systems 2Total Hours18
1Writing Intensive  (p. 800)
2Satisﬁes Engaged Learning  (p. 1417 ) requirement.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Sophomore
FallENVS Required Course #13 Hours3
SpringENVS Required Course #23 Hours3
Junior
FallCOMM Required Course #13 Hours3
SpringCOMM Required Course #23 Hours3
Senior
FallENVS Option #13 Hours3
SpringCOMM Option #13 Hours3 Total Hours18
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Learning Outcomes
•Understand the role that communication plays in upholding,
changing, or transforming the dominant social and cultural
understandings of the environment. 
•Effectively use various communication strategies and technologies to
advocate for environmental sustainability. 
•Use communication skills to critique, change, and create
environmental campaigns and projects.
•Serve the needs of diverse groups, communities and organizations
which strive for equity, diversity, inclusion, and social justice.

--- Page 797 ---
828  Professional Communication Minor
Professional Communication Minor
The Professional Communication minor is designed for students outside
of the School of Communication who are seeking to improve their
communication skills, including speaking, writing, and multi-media
presentations.
The 18-credit-hour minor will help students improve their public speaking,
persuasive abilities, understanding of organizational communication and
creative use of media technologies.
Students with this minor will have an advantage in professional settings
that reward excellence in communication.
Related Programs
Major
•Communication Studies (BA)  (p. 823)
Minor
•Communication Studies Minor  (p. 825)
•Environmental Communication Minor  (p. 826)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Oral CommunicationSelect one of the following:3
COMM 101 Public Speaking & Critical ThinkingCOMM 103Business & Professional Speaking (Quinlan majors
only)Written CommunicationSelect one of the following:3
COMM 205 Reporting Basics I: Writing and Interviewing 1,3COMM 277Organizational Communication 2,3COMM 313 Corporate and Organizational Communication 2,3Applied CommunicationSelect four of the following: 12COMM 145Video for JournalistsCOMM 205 Reporting Basics I: Writing and Interviewing 1,3COMM 210Principles of Public Relations 2COMM 211 Principles of Advertising 2COMM 230Argumentation & Advocacy 2COMM 231 Conflict Management and Communication 2COMM 234Interviewing for Communication 2COMM 237 Small Group Communication 2COMM 273Interpersonal Communication 2COMM 275 Web Design and Usability 2COMM 277Organizational Communication 2,3COMM 313Corporate and Organizational Communication 2,3Total Hours18
1Writing Intensive  (p. 800)
2Pre-requisite(s) waived.
3This course cannot be used to fulﬁll both the Written Communication
and the Applied Communication requirements.Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Sophomore
FallOral Communication Course3 Hours3
SpringWritten Communication Course3 Hours3
Junior
FallApplied Communication Course #13 Hours3
SpringApplied Communication Course #23 Hours3
Senior
FallApplied Communication Course #33 Hours3
SpringApplied Communication Course #43 Hours3 Total Hours18
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Learning Outcomes
•Improve public speaking skills geared towards organizational
settings.
•Produce creative, effective, and appropriate messages, texts, and
projects using different types of media technologies.
•Formulate professional, persuasive, and culturally literate oral,
written, and multimodal arguments which are responsive to
organizational contexts.
•Understand the role of communication in our contemporary
globalized world.
Film and Digital Media
•Digital Media Minor  (p. 829)
•Film and Digital Media Minor  (p. 830)
•Film and Digital Media: Film and Media Production Track (BA)
(p. 831)
•Film and Digital Media: Film and Media Production Track/
Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)  (p. 1196 )

--- Page 798 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 829
•Film and Digital Media: Film and Media Production Track/
International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1202 )
•Film and Digital Media: International Programming Track (BA)
(p. 833)
•Film and Digital Media: International Programming Track/
Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)  (p. 1208 )
•Film and Digital Media: International Programming Track/
International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1214 )
Digital Media Minor
The Digital Media Minor is designed for students with a broad interest in
the study of digital culture. Courses within this minor provide students a
flexible and rigorous program examining digital technology and everyday
life, ethical concerns in digital practices, contemporary games and game
culture, digital media production, the persuasive communicative power of
global digital media industries, and emergent user practices.
Related Programs
Major
•Film and Digital Media: Film and Media Production Track (BA)
(p. 831)
Minor
•Film and Digital Media Minor  (p. 830)
Combined
•Film and Digital Media: Film and Media Production Track/
Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)  (p. 1196 )
•Film and Digital Media: Film and Media Production Track/
International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1202 )
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesCOMM 175Introduction to Communication3or COMM 201Media Theory and Criticism
COMM 200 Digital Communication and Society 3COMM 275Web Design and Usability3
COMM 360 Digital Media Ethics 3Elective Courses  (p.  )Select three courses from the following list. A max of one course can
be from non-COMM options.9COMM 213Digital FoundationsCOMM 227 Social Justice & CommunicationCOMM 258Game StudiesCOMM 280 Media Technology & SocietyCOMM 299Themes in Film and Digital MediaCOMM 322 Guerilla MediaCOMM 323Remixing CultureCOMM 357 Programming Film & Media: Festivals, TV & DigitalCOMM 361New Media Criticism 1COMM 371 Special Topics Communication StudiesCOMM 373Digital Storytelling Abroad 2COMM 374 Special Topics: Film & Digital MediaCOMP 111History of Computing (WI)COMP 125 Visual Information Processing (core eligible)COMP 150Introduction to Computing (core eligible)COMP 170 Introduction to Object-Oriented ProgrammingCOMP 250Introduction to Scientiﬁc and Technical
Communication (WI)COMP 317 Social, Legal, and Ethical Issues in ComputingCOMP 388Topics in Computer ScienceSOCL 226Science, Technology, & SocietyTotal Hours21
1Writing Intensive  (p. 800)
2Satisﬁes  Engaged Learning  (p. 1417 ) requirement.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Sophomore
Fall
COMM 201 Media Theory and Criticism ( OR COMM 175
Introduction to Communication )3COMM 200Digital Communication and Society3 Hours6
SpringCOMM 275Web Design and Usability3 Hours3
Junior
FallCOMM 360Digital Media Ethics3 Hours3
SpringMinor Elective #13 Hours3
Senior
FallMinor Elective #23 Hours3
SpringMinor Elective #33 Hours3 Total Hours21
Learning Outcomes
•Similar to learning grammar to create sentences or speaking the
sounds of a foreign language, students who minor in digital media
will learn the "language" of ﬁlm and how shot composition/framing
aid in storytelling just as well as dialogue.

--- Page 799 ---
830  Film and Digital Media Minor
•You will be exploring non-ﬁction, narrative, and experimental genres
and will be asked to demonstrate competency in visual storytelling,
camera, editing, sound, lighting, scripting and design work. 
•You will  be asked to integrate theoretical and ethical ideas about the
media into the creative context of visual/aural expression.
•In this minor, we will provide students with the basic terminology,
observational and critical skills and theoretical background for the
study of ﬁlm aesthetics and language, history, cultural and formal
analysis.
•Lastly, you will approach each assigned screening by performing a
close analysis of each ﬁlm that will explore its cinematic elements
and properties such as mise-en-scene, cinematography, camera
angles, editing, sound and image relation, narrative and other
structures of organization, etc. and, furthermore, explore how
different modes of composition and style develop over time.
Film and Digital Media Minor
Loyola’s Film and Digital Media minor offers the opportunity to gain
real-world experiences with award-winning ﬁlmmakers, producers,
programmers and scholars. Students study and collaboratively create
transformative media experiences for a variety of audiences and
platforms.
Related Programs
Major
•Film and Digital Media: Film and Media Production Track (BA)
(p. 831)
Combined
•Film and Digital Media: Film and Media Production Track/
Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)  (p. 1196 )
•Film and Digital Media: Film and Media Production Track/
International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1202 )
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesCOMM 201Media Theory and Criticism3
COMM 274 Introduction to Cinema 3Basic Production CourseSelect one of the following: 3COMM 130Intro to Audio ProductionCOMM 135 Intro to Video ProductionCOMM 275Web Design and UsabilityProduction ElectivesSelect two of the following; a max of one course may be taken at the
100-level6
COMM 130 Intro to Audio ProductionCOMM 135Intro to Video ProductionCOMM 207 PhotojournalismCOMM 232Cinematography ICOMM 275 Web Design and UsabilityCOMM 299Themes in Film and Digital MediaCOMM 305 AnimationCOMM 308Screen DirectingCOMM 326 Screenwriting 1COMM 339Video Documentary 2COMM 359 Advanced Post ProductionCOMM 373Digital Storytelling Abroad 2COMM 384 Film & Digital Media Practicum 2FNAR 233Digital Media DesignFilm & Media Studies ElectivesSelect two of the following:6
COMM 200 Digital Communication and SocietyCOMM 203Topics in Cinema HistoryCOMM 258 Game StudiesCOMM 322Guerilla MediaCOMM 323 Remixing CultureCOMM 324Film GenreCOMM 357 Programming Film & Media: Festivals, TV & DigitalCOMM 361New Media Criticism 1COMM 374Special Topics: Film & Digital MediaTotal Hours21
1Writing Intensive  (p. 800)
2Satisﬁes  Engaged Learning  (p. 1417 ) requirement.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Sophomore
Fall
COMM 201 Media Theory and Criticism 3COMM 274Introduction to Cinema3 Hours6
SpringBasic Production Course3 Hours3
Junior
FallProduction Elective #13 Hours3
SpringProduction Elective #23 Hours3
Senior
FallFilm and Media Studies Elective #13 Hours3

--- Page 800 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 831
SpringFilm and Media Studies Elective #23 Hours3 Total Hours21
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Learning Outcomes
•Similar to learning grammar to create sentences or speaking the
sounds of a foreign language, students who minor in digital media
will learn the "language" of ﬁlm and how shot composition/framing
aid in storytelling just as well as dialogue.
•You will be exploring non-ﬁction, narrative, and experimental genres
and will be asked to demonstrate competency in visual storytelling,
camera, editing, sound, lighting, scripting and design work.
•You will be asked to integrate theoretical and ethical ideas about the
media into the creative context of visual/aural expression.
•In this minor, we will provide students with the basic terminology,
observational and critical skills and theoretical background for the
study of ﬁlm aesthetics and language, history, cultural and formal
analysis.
•Lastly, you will approach each assigned screening by performing a
close analysis of each ﬁlm that will explore its cinematic elements
and properties such as mise-en-scene, cinematography, camera
angles, editing, sound and image relation, narrative and other
structures of organization, etc. and, furthermore, explore how
different modes of composition and style develop over time.
Film and Digital Media: Film and
Media Production Track (BA)
Loyola’s Film and Digital Media program offers the opportunity
to gain real-world experiences with award-winning ﬁlmmakers,
producers, programmers and scholars. Students collaboratively create
transformative media experiences for a variety of audiences and
platforms.
Film and Media Production provides students with the conceptual and
practical skills for producing ﬁlm, digital video, and virtual productions.
Related Programs
Minor
•Film and Digital Media Minor  (p. 830)
Combined
•Film and Digital Media: Film and Media Production Track/
Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)  (p. 1196 )
•Film and Digital Media: Film and Media Production Track/
International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1202 )Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesCOMM 100SOC Career Prep Seminar1
COMM 130 Intro to Audio Production 3COMM 135Intro to Video Production3
COMM 200 Digital Communication and Society 3COMM 201Media Theory and Criticism3
COMM 202 Story for Film and Television 13COMM 274Introduction to Cinema3
COMM 350 Producing for Film & Digital Media 3Production ElectivesChoose two from: 6COMM 205Reporting Basics I: Writing and Interviewing 1COMM 207 PhotojournalismCOMM 210Principles of Public RelationsCOMM 211 Principles of AdvertisingCOMM 232Cinematography ICOMM 275 Web Design and UsabilityCOMM 299Themes in Film and Digital MediaCOMM 308 Screen DirectingCOMM 310Production DesignCOMM 326 Screenwriting 1COMM 333Cinematography IICOMM 337 AD/PR Multimedia Commercial Production 2COMM 338Narrative ProductionCOMM 339 Video Documentary 2COMM 345Student Agency 4COMM 357 Programming Film & Media: Festivals, TV & DigitalCOMM 359Advanced Post ProductionCOMM 373 Digital Storytelling Abroad 2COMM 374Special Topics: Film & Digital MediaCOMM 384 Film & Digital Media Practicum 2COMM 405Story Development and ProductionCOMM 425 Digital Marketing and AnalyticsCOMP 125Visual Information ProcessingCOMP 150 Introduction to ComputingENGL 318The Writing of FictionENGL 319 Writing Creative NonﬁctionFNAR 132Visual Communication IFNAR 219 Photography: Digital ImagingFNAR 232Visual Communication IIFNAR 233 Digital Media DesignFNAR 234Digital Media: VectorFNAR 332 Visual Communication IIIFNAR 334Motion DesignFNAR 383 Interactive DesignMUSC 122Introduction to Digital MusicMUSC 201 Music Technology IMUSC 246Composition ITHTR 204 PlaywritingTHTR 252Theatrical Design I

--- Page 801 ---
832  Film and Digital Media: Film and Media Production Track (BA)
THTR 261 Beginning ActingMedia Studies ElectivesChoose one course from: 3COMM 203Topics in Cinema History 3COMM 324 Film Genre 3Choose one course from COMM 203 or COMM 324 (if different topic
from above), or from the following list:3
COMM 258 Game StudiesCOMM 261Social MediaCOMM 275 Web Design and UsabilityCOMM 280Media Technology & SocietyCOMM 322 Guerilla MediaCOMM 323Remixing CultureCOMM 360 Digital Media EthicsCOMM 361New Media Criticism 1ENGL 359 High and Low CultureLITR 204European FilmLITR 219 African FilmLITR 244Indian FilmLITR 264 Italian Film GenreLITR 267Italian Film HistoryLITR 284 International FilmFNAR 365History of PhotographyFNAR 390 Art History: Methods and ResearchGERM 370German Cinema (or program director's permission)Advanced Production 3Select one from the following list, if not already taken as a Production
Elective:COMM 232 Cinematography ICOMM 308Screen DirectingCOMM 310 Production DesignCOMM 326Screenwriting 1COMM 359 Advanced Post ProductionInternshipRequires a minimum of 18 credit hours  completed and Junior or
Senior  standingCOMM 394Film & Digital Media Internship 23
CapstoneSelect one of the following. Courses already taken cannot also
satisfy this requirement.3
COMM 338 Narrative ProductionCOMM 339Video Documentary 2COMM 388Film and Digital Media CapstoneTotal Hours43
1Writing Intensive  (p. 800)
2Satisﬁes Engaged Learning  (p. 1417 ) requirement.
3May be repeated if different topic
4Inigo  (https://www.inigocomm.com/ )
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as thestart term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
First Year
Fall
COMM 201 Media Theory and Criticism 3COMM 274Introduction to Cinema3 Hours6
SpringCOMM 135Intro to Video Production3 Hours3
Second Year
FallCOMM 130Intro to Audio Production3Media Studies Elective3 Hours6
Spring
COMM 200 Digital Communication and Society 3COMM 202Story for Film and Television3 Hours6
Third Year
FallCOMM 100SOC Career Prep Seminar1
COMM 203 
or COMM 324Topics in Cinema History 
or Film Genre3Production Elective3 Hours7
SpringProduction Elective3Advanced Production Elective3 Hours6
Fourth Year
Fall
COMM 350 Producing for Film & Digital Media 3COMM 394Film & Digital Media Internship3 Hours6
SpringMajor Capstone Course3 Hours3 Total Hours43
School of Communication Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the School of Communication are required
to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as complete
a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit hours) or a
language competency test.  More information can be found here  (https://
www.luc.edu/soc/undergrad/soclanguagerequirement/ ).

--- Page 802 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 833
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Develop fundamental knowledge and skills essential in media
production, exhibition, and distribution.
•Connect theory, analysis, and hands-on work in the development of
original ideas in ﬁlm and digital media.
•Identify their aesthetic vision as a creator of media.
•Gain technical proﬁciency in audio and visual skills, and
specialization in advanced production skills.  
Film and Digital Media: International
Programming Track (BA)
Loyola’s Film and Digital Media program offers the opportunity
to gain real-world experiences with award-winning ﬁlmmakers,
producers, programmers and scholars. Students collaboratively create
transformative media experiences for a variety of audiences and
platforms.
International Film Studies introduces students to the global markets for
programming media, writing reviews and criticism, learning about media
distribution, curation, ﬁlm history and related professions.
Related Programs
Major
•Film and Digital Media: Film and Media Production Track (BA)
(p. 831)
Combined
•Film and Digital Media: International Programming Track/
Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)  (p. 1208 )
•Film and Digital Media: International Programming Track/
International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1214 )
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesCOMM 100SOC Career Prep Seminar1
COMM 200 Digital Communication and Society 3COMM 201Media Theory and Criticism3
COMM 202 Story for Film and Television 13COMM 274Introduction to Cinema3
COMM 350 Producing for Film & Digital Media 3Required Production CourseSelect one of the following: 3COMM 130Intro to Audio ProductionCOMM 135 Intro to Video ProductionCOMM 275Web Design and UsabilityMedia Studies Required CourseSelect one of the following:3
COMM 203 Topics in Cinema HistoryCOMM 324Film GenreMedia Studies ElectiveSelect three of the following:9
COMM 203 Topics in Cinema History 3COMM 258Game StudiesCOMM 261 Social MediaCOMM 280Media Technology & SocietyCOMM 322 Guerilla MediaCOMM 323Remixing CultureCOMM 324 Film Genre 3COMM 360Digital Media EthicsCOMM 361 New Media Criticism 1ENGL 359High and Low CultureFNAR 365 History of PhotographyFNAR 390Art History: Methods and ResearchGERM 370 German CinemaLITR 204European FilmLITR 219 African FilmLITR 244Indian FilmLITR 264 Italian Film GenreLITR 267Italian Film HistoryLITR 284 International Filmor program director's permissionElectivesSelect two courses from Production or Media Studies above, or from
the list below6
COMM 205 Reporting Basics I: Writing and Interviewing 1COMM 207PhotojournalismCOMM 210 Principles of Public RelationsCOMM 211Principles of AdvertisingCOMM 232 Cinematography ICOMM 275Web Design and UsabilityCOMM 299 Themes in Film and Digital MediaCOMM 308Screen DirectingCOMM 310 Production DesignCOMM 326Screenwriting 1COMM 333 Cinematography IICOMM 337AD/PR Multimedia Commercial Production 2COMM 338 Narrative ProductionCOMM 339Video Documentary 2COMM 345 Student Agency 4COMM 357Programming Film & Media: Festivals, TV & DigitalCOMM 359 Advanced Post ProductionCOMM 373Digital Storytelling Abroad 2COMM 374 Special Topics: Film & Digital Media 3COMM 384Film & Digital Media Practicum 2COMM 405 Story Development and ProductionCOMM 425Digital Marketing and AnalyticsCOMP 125 Visual Information Processing

--- Page 803 ---
834  Film and Digital Media: International Programming Track (BA)COMP 150Introduction to ComputingENGL 318 The Writing of FictionENGL 319Writing Creative NonﬁctionFNAR 132 Visual Communication IFNAR 219Photography: Digital ImagingFNAR 233 Digital Media DesignFNAR 234Digital Media: VectorFNAR 332 Visual Communication IIIFNAR 334Motion DesignFNAR 383 Interactive DesignMUSC 122Introduction to Digital MusicMUSC 201 Music Technology IMUSC 246Composition ITHTR 204 PlaywritingTHTR 252Theatrical Design ITHTR 261 Beginning ActingInternshipRequires a minimum of 18 credit hours  completed and Junior or
Senior  standingCOMM 394Film & Digital Media Internship 23
CapstoneSelect one of the following:3
COMM 357 Programming Film & Media: Festivals, TV & DigitalCOMM 388Film and Digital Media CapstoneTotal Hours43
1Writing Intensive  (p. 799)
2Satisﬁes Engaged Learning  (p. 1417 ) requirement
3May be repeated if different topic
4Inigo  (https://www.inigocomm.com/ )
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
First Year
Fall
COMM 274 Introduction to Cinema 3COMM 130 
or COMM 135 
or COMM 275Intro to Audio Production 
or Intro to Video Production 
or Web Design and Usability3 Hours6
SpringCOMM 201Media Theory and Criticism3 Hours3
Second Year
FallCOMM 200Digital Communication and Society3COMM 202Story for Film and Television3 Hours6SpringCOMM 203 
or COMM 324Topics in Cinema History 
or Film Genre3 Hours3
Third Year
Fall
Media Studies Elective 3Media Studies Elective3COMM 100SOC Career Prep Seminar1 Hours7
Spring
COMM 350 Producing for Film & Digital Media 3COMM 394Film & Digital Media Internship3 Hours6
Fourth Year
FallMedia Studies Elective3Major Elective3 Hours6
Spring
COMM 357 
or COMM 388Programming Film & Media: Festivals, TV &
Digital 
or Film and Digital Media Capstone3Major Elective3 Hours6 Total Hours43
School of Communication Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the School of Communication are required
to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as complete
a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit hours) or a
language competency test.  More information can be found here  (https://
www.luc.edu/soc/undergrad/soclanguagerequirement/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Develop fundamental knowledge and skills essential in media
production, exhibition and distribution.
•Connect theory, analysis, and hands-on work in the development and
review of original ideas in ﬁlm and digital media.
•Identify their social values as a critical thinker.
•Gain proﬁciency in the story development, programming, ﬁnancing
and distribution of media works

--- Page 804 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 835
Multimedia Journalism
•Multimedia Journalism (BA)  (p. 835)
•Multimedia Journalism/Environmental Science and Sustainability
(BA/MS)  (p. 1292 )
•Multimedia Journalism/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1298 )
•Multimedia Journalism Minor  (p. 836)
Multimedia Journalism (BA)
Loyola’s multimedia journalism major engages students in the issues
shaping today’s media landscape, from the decline of newspapers, the
rise of apps, virtual reality, and fake news. As part of Loyola’s mission-
based education, students learn to stand on Jesuit values and ethics in
an uncertain and ever-changing world.
Multimedia journalism students practice the skills that every journalist
must master, including researching, interviewing, reporting, and writing.
Students also gain exposure to the latest technology, equipment, and
software through Loyola’s Convergence Studio, Owl Lab, and on-site radio
station, WLUW.
Courses are offered at Loyola’s Water Tower Campus, located in the
heart of downtown Chicago. In addition to Loyola’s on-campus media
outlets, such as our student newspaper,  The Phoenix , students can gain
experience through professional internships at renowned media outlets
like the  Chicago Tribune , Sun-Times , WLS, and WMAQ, as well as major
corporations, nonproﬁts, and agencies.
Related Programs
Minor
•Multimedia Journalism Minor  (p. 836)
Combined
•Multimedia Journalism/Environmental Science and Sustainability
(BA/MS)  (p. 1292 )
•Multimedia Journalism/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1298 )
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
School of Communication Foundation CoursesCOMM 100SOC Career Prep Seminar1
COMM 175 Introduction to Communication 3COMM 200Digital Communication and Society3
COMM 215 Ethics & Communication 3Journalism Foundation CoursesCOMM 145 Video for Journalists 3COMM 205Reporting Basics I: Writing and Interviewing 13
COMM 208 Reporting Basics II: Technology for Journalists 3Research MethodsCOMM 362 Multimedia Journalism Research Methods 3ValuesCOMM 279 Critical Issues in Journalism 3COMM 282Media Law3
Intermediate CoursesSelect three of the following:9COMM 207 PhotojournalismCOMM 256Broadcast Newswriting 1COMM 259 News EditingCOMM 260Environmental Journalism 1COMM 262 Feature & Opinion Writing 1COMM 263Editorial Design I: Newspaper & OnlineCOMM 265 Sports BroadcastingCOMM 275Web Design and UsabilityCOMM 311 Health CommunicationCOMM 372Special Topics: Multimedia JournalismAdvanced CoursesSelect two of the following:6
COMM 315 Advanced Reporting Topics 1,2COMM 327Mastering Video Reporting and StorytellingCOMM 328 Editorial Design II: Magazine & InteractiveCOMM 332Investigative & Public Affairs ReportingCOMM 339 Video Documentary 2COMM 358Newscasting and ProducingCOMM 373 Digital Storytelling Abroad 2COMM 398Directed StudyInternshipCOMM 392Multimedia Journalism Internship 23Total Hours46
1Writing Intensive  (https://catalog.luc.edu/undergraduate/
communication/#wisections )
2Satisﬁes  Engaged Learning  (https://catalog.luc.edu/undergraduate/
university-requirements/engaged-learning/ ) requirement
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
COMM 145 Video for Journalists 3COMM 175Introduction to Communication3 Hours6
SpringCOMM 200Digital Communication and Society3COMM 205Reporting Basics I: Writing and Interviewing3 Hours6
Year 2
FallCOMM 208Reporting Basics II: Technology for
Journalists3 Hours3
Spring
COMM 279 Critical Issues in Journalism 3

--- Page 805 ---
836  Multimedia Journalism MinorMajor Intermediate Course3 Hours6
Year 3
FallCOMM 100SOC Career Prep Seminar1
COMM 215 Ethics & Communication 3Major Intermediate Course3 Hours7
SpringCOMM 282Media Law3
COMM 362 Multimedia Journalism Research Methods 3Major Advanced Course3 Hours9
Year 4
FallCOMM 392Multimedia Journalism Internship3Major Advanced Course3 Hours6
SpringMajor Advanced Course3 Hours3 Total Hours46
School of Communication Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the School of Communication are required
to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as complete
a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit hours) or a
language competency test.  More information can be found here  (https://
www.luc.edu/soc/undergrad/soclanguagerequirement/ ).
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Researching
•Interviewing
•Reporting
•Writing
•A commitment to ethics and social justice
•Shooting and editing photos and video
•Recording and editing audio
•Designing web sites and other types of content
•Promoting content and understanding metrics
•A willingness to explore emerging mediaMultimedia Journalism Minor
The minor in Multimedia Journalism is designed to help students in other
majors learn how to communicate with the general public. The minor
teaches students how to:
• write clearly and concisely as journalists do
• research using tools and databases that working journalists use  
• relate facts through words,  images, videos, podcasts and/or designs
The minor in Multimedia Journalism is perfect for any student who hopes
to communicate effectively about their ﬁelds of interest.
Related Programs
Major
•Multimedia Journalism (BA)  (p. 835)
Combined
•Multimedia Journalism/Environmental Science and Sustainability
(BA/MS)  (p. 1292 )
•Multimedia Journalism/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1298 )
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesCOMM 175Introduction to Communication3
COMM 205 Reporting Basics I: Writing and Interviewing 13COMM 208Reporting Basics II: Technology for Journalists3
ElectivesSelect three of the following:9
COMM 135 Intro to Video ProductionCOMM 207PhotojournalismCOMM 256 Broadcast Newswriting 1COMM 259News EditingCOMM 260 Environmental Journalism 1COMM 261Social MediaCOMM 262 Feature & Opinion Writing 1COMM 263Editorial Design I: Newspaper & OnlineCOMM 265 Sports BroadcastingCOMM 275Web Design and UsabilityCOMM 298 Themes in Multimedia JournalismCOMM 311Health CommunicationCOMM 315 Advanced Reporting Topics 1,2COMM 328Editorial Design II: Magazine & InteractiveCOMM 332 Investigative & Public Affairs ReportingCOMM 339Video Documentary 2COMM 358 Newscasting and ProducingCOMM 362Multimedia Journalism Research MethodsCOMM 372 Special Topics: Multimedia JournalismCOMM 373Digital Storytelling Abroad 2COMM 382Multimedia Journalism Practicum 2Total Hours18
1Writing Intensive  (p. 800)

--- Page 806 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 837
2Satisﬁes  Engaged Learning  (p. 1417 ) requirement.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Sophomore
FallCOMM 175Introduction to Communication3 Hours3
SpringCOMM 205Reporting Basics I: Writing and Interviewing3 Hours3
Junior
FallCOMM 208Reporting Basics II: Technology for
Journalists3 Hours3
SpringMinor Elective #13 Hours3
Senior
FallMinor Elective #23 Hours3
SpringMinor Elective #33 Hours3 Total Hours18
Learning Outcomes
•Researching
•Interviewing
•Reporting
•Writing
•A commitment to ethics and social justice
•Shooting and editing photos and video
•Recording and editing audio
•Designing web sites and other types of content
•Promoting content and understanding metrics
•A willingness to explore emerging media
Programs with School of
Environmental Sustainability
•Environmental Policy/Digital Media and Storytelling (BA/MC)
(p. 1108 )
•Environmental Policy/Global Strategic Communication (BA/MS)
(p. 1117 )•Environmental Science/Digital Media and Storytelling (BS/MC)
(p. 1133 )
•Environmental Science/Global Strategic Communication (BS/MS)
(p. 1146 )
•Environmental Studies/Digital Media and Storytelling (BA/MC)
(p. 1171 )
•Environmental Studies/Global Strategic Communication (BA/MS)
(p. 1182 )
School of Continuing and
Professional Studies
For more than a century, the School of Continuing and Professional
Studies has been transforming the trajectory of student lives, driving
professional and personal pursuits with high-quality academic offerings
and engaging  learning envir onments.  A forward-thinking, responsive
school, we have designed academic programs to meet market needs and
offer online coursework to deliver the flexibility our stude nts need.  We
have  emerged  a highly ranked,  national leader in online education, and
we've  created spirited learning environments where students develop
tangible skills they can apply in today's workplace.
SCPS offers undergraduate programs to propel careers, enrich lives, and
power social  mobility , empower ing adult learners through an accessible,
impactful, and holistic education that positions them for success.  With
fully online classes and flexible 8-week schedules, students are able to
balance their degree pursuits with life’s other responsibilities.  And with
courses led by scholars and active practitioners in their respective ﬁelds,
students will gain the relevant knowledge and practical skills to advance
in their career.
Note : The following program  is no  longer accepting new students:
•Strategic Digital Communication BA  (SDCM-BA) - Expected
Discontinuation Term: Fall 2026
Undergraduate Programs
•Applied Psychology (BA)  (p. 858)
•Applied Psychology/Public Service Leadership (BA/MA)  (p. 1003 )
•Applied Studies (BA)  (p. 859)
•Computer Science Certiﬁcate  (p. 860)
•Cybersecurity Technology Management Certiﬁcate  (p. 861)
•Environmental Policy/Public Policy (BA/MPP)  (p. 1122 )
•Environmental Science/Public Policy (BS/MPP)  (p. 1159 )
•Environmental Studies/Public Policy (BA/MPP)  (p. 1187 )
•Information Technology (BA)  (p. 861)
•Information Technology (BA/MS)  (p. 1251 )
•Information Technology/Computer Science (BA/MS)  (p. 1259 )
•Information Technology/Information Technology Leadership and
Strategy (BA/MPS)  (p. 1262 )
•Information Technology/Instructional Design (BA/MPS)  (p. 1264 )
•Introduction to Data Science Certiﬁcate  (p. 862)
•Management (BA)  (p. 863)
•Management/Information Technology Leadership and Strategy (BA/
MPS)  (p. 1267 )
•Management/Instructional Design (BA/MPS)  (p. 1270 )
•Management/Public Service Leadership (BA/MA)  (p. 1273 )

--- Page 807 ---
838  School of Continuing and Professional Studies
•New Media Communication Certiﬁcate  (p. 864)
•Organizational Development and Leadership Certiﬁcate  (p. 864)
•Organizational Psychology Certiﬁcate  (p. 865)
•Paralegal Studies (BA)  (p. 865)
•Strategic Digital Communication (BA)  (p. 866)
•User Experience Design Certiﬁcate  (p. 867)
•Web Design and Development Certiﬁcate  (p. 867)
•Web Technologies (BA)  (p. 868)
•Web Technologies/Information Technology Leadership and Strategy
(BA/MPS)  (p. 1400 )
•Web Technologies/Instructional Design (BA/MPS)  (p. 1403 )
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
University Policies
Please see University Policies for academic policies that supersede those
of academic units within the University
School of Continuing and Professional
Studies Policies
The policies outlined here  are additional  policies that  apply to all
SCPS undergraduate students, both degree- and certiﬁcate-seeking
students.  All u niver sity policies outlined in the Undergraduate  Academic
Standards and Regulations  section of the Academic Catalog apply to all
undergraduate students, including SCPS students. 
Academic Advising
The Senior Academic Advisor is the primary academic advisor for all
undergraduate  SCPS students, both degree- and certiﬁcate-seeking.
Upon admission, degree-seeking students are required to meet with
an academic advisor and discuss the overview of their academic plan.
Degree-seeking students then meet with their primary academic advisor
during their ﬁrst session to create a degree outline. Throughout their
time, students may schedule advising appointments with their assigned
academic advisor regarding any registration or enrollment questions.
The University uses LOCUS and particularly the Academic Requirements
Report (ARR) as an ofﬁcial record of all courses completed and to be
completed by the student. The Microsoft Excel electronic audit is also
used as a tool to assist students in devising a graduation plan.
A ﬁle review is completed for all degree-seeking students who have
earned 90+ credits to ensure that the classes necessary for graduation
have been or will be completed.  A graduation audit is completed and
sent to all students who have completed a mandatory graduation
application for their review.
Academic Standing
A cumulative GPA of at least 2.0 is required for a student to be considered
in good academic standing. The following policies, and the university
policies, apply to all SCPS undergraduate students, both degree- and
certiﬁcate-seeking students. Academic Probation
The review for academic standing is completed at the end of the term
(fall and spring 16-week semester and 12-week summer semester) and
not at the end of each 8-week session. When a student’s cumulative
GPA falls below 2.0 at the end of the term, they will be placed
on academic probation and are required to complete an  Academic
Improvement Plan  (https://forms.gle/18CkFWtUWWWa5C487/ ), and, may
be restricted in enrollment. All students should be aware of the Academic
Standing policies of the University as found in the Academic Catalog.
SCPS follows the University policy parameters for academic probation,
continued on  probation, and dismissal for poor scholarship.
Students must be in good academic standing, cumulative GPA of 2.0 or
higher, to graduate and have their degree and/or certiﬁcate conferred.
Dismissed for Poor Scholarship
Students who do not meet the requirements of academic probation
and do not return to good academic standing will be dismissed for
poor scholarship.  SCPS  follows university standards, as outlined in the
academic catalog, for readmission consideration .
Once the requirement is met for readmission, students must apply for
admission to SCPS, submitting ofﬁcial transcripts from all other schools.
Grades from other institutions do not apply toward the computation
of your Loyola GPA. Re-admission is not guaranteed and is subject to
review. If a dismissed student is readmitted, it will be under the terms of
continued academic probation and/or any other conditions established
by the School of Continuing and Professional Studies Dean’s Ofﬁce.
Admission
Admission on Condition (Unofﬁcial Transcripts)
Conditional admission may be offered to those who have  submitted
unofﬁcial (self-submitted) or in-progress transcripts (applicant is
still enrolled at  previous  institution at the time of admission). These
admitted students must  request  that ofﬁcial transcripts be  submitted  to
gradapp@luc.edu  before the end of the ﬁrst term of enrollment, or a hold
will be placed on their account so that they may not register for future
terms.
Admission on Probation
Admission on probation may be offered to students who do not meet
the academic requirements for admission. These students will have the
opportunity to demonstrate their ability to succeed academically while on
academic probation.
For undergraduate students , the terms for admission on probation are as
follows:
•Students must pass CPST 200 Introduction to Degree Completion in
their ﬁrst session.  
•Students must earn a cumulative grade point average of 2.5 in their
ﬁrst 12 credit hours of coursework.  
At the completion of their ﬁrst 12 credit hours, the student’s record will be
reviewed to determine if the GPA and CPST 200 requirements have been
met and their status updated to one of the following:
•Good academic standing . If the student achieves the required 2.5 GPA
on the 12 credit hours and their cumulative GPA is 2.0 or higher.  
•Continued on probation . If the student achieves the required 2.5 GPA
on the 12 credit hours but still needs to bring their cumulative GPA to

--- Page 808 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 839
2.0 or higher, they will be given the opportunity to continue to improve
their GPA with future enrollment.  
•Dismissal for poor scholarship . If the student fails to earn a 2.5 GPA
on the 12 credit hours, they will be dismissed from the university.  
For graduate students , the terms of admission on probation are as
follows:
•Students must earn a cumulative grade point average of 2.8 (good
academic standing) by the end of their ﬁrst semester.  
At the completion of their ﬁrst semester, the student’s record will be
reviewed to determine if the GPA requirement has been met and their
status updated to one of the following:
•Good academic standing . If the student achieves the required 2.8
cumulative GPA or higher.  
•Dismissal for poor scholarship.  If the student fails to earn a 2.8
cumulative GPA, they will be dismissed from the university. 
Admission on Probation (Paralegal Studies Certiﬁcate
Students)
Students who do not meet the 2.5 minimum undergraduate GPA
requirement for the post-baccalaureate certiﬁcate programs may be
admitted on probation if the admission committee agrees that the
student has the potential for success in paralegal studies at t his level.
These students will have the opportunity to demonstrate their abilities by
achieving a 2.5 minimum GPA in the ﬁrst two sessions of study. At that
point, their ﬁles will be reviewed for a change in status to unconditional
admission or dismissal for poor scholarship.
Auditing a Course
All degree and non-degree seeking students auditing a course must ﬁrst
receive approval from the SCPS Assistant Dean. Course auditing will
be allowed only in rare and special circumstances. Students auditing a
course will be assessed tuition on a per-credit basis at 50% of the normal
tuition rate.
Students must complete the University’s undergraduate audit request
form, email it to the Assistant Dean, and on approval it will be submitted
to the Ofﬁce of Registration & Records. This form is found on the
Registration & Records website here:  https://www.luc.edu/regrec/
aboutus/forms/
The completed form must be received by the SCPS Dean’s ofﬁce before
the audit deadline as stated on the academic calendar on the SCPS
website. SCPS will not approve a request received after the deadline.
Please note: Paralegal (PLST) courses may not be audited.
All university policies on auditing undergraduate courses apply and can
be found in the academic catalog.
Class Attendance / Student Accountability
Expectations of Students  
Students are expected to treat their classroom and SCPS community
obligations as they would treat any serious professional engagement.  In
addition to adhering to the university’s undergraduate attendance policy,
students must follow the SCPS attendance guidelines outlined in the
SCPS policy catalog.  The following expectations  apply to all students
within the SCPS community at all times :•Students are expected to behave ethically and respectfully within the
SCPS community, and according to the Academic Integrity policy and
Community Standards as found in the Academic Catalog.
•Students must use and check Loyola email and Sakai for all
correspondence with SCPS faculty and staff.
•Students  are responsible for  reviewing and understanding University
and SCPS policies and calendars.
•Students should meet regularly with their academic advisor
Students should also adhere to the following expectations before and
during their courses:
Before classes:
•Complete Mastering Learning Tools (new degree-seeking students).
•Attend the SCPS orientation, when applicable.
•Purchase books or obtain course materials prior to the start of the
course.
•Review the syllabus carefully prior to the start of the course and
contact  instructor  with questions.
•Enroll prior to the session/term start date. Late enrollment is highly
discouraged. Instructors  are not required to  make accommodations
or accept late assignments due to late enrollment.
•Students who  have accessibility needs  must work with the Student
Accessibility Center  (SAC)  prior to the start of class . Students should
start the process with SAC at least two mont hs prior to the start of
the 8-week session.
During Classes:
•Adhere to deadlines and timetables  established  by the instructor
and submit  work on time. Any variations/conflicts must be
communicated in advance and approved by the instructor.
•Proactively communicate with instructors and  academic  advisor
about any concerns, difﬁculties, or scheduling conflicts or missed
sessions of the course.
•Prepare thoroughly for each session  in accordance with  the
instructor’s request.
•Arrive promptly for the start and remain until the end of each
synchronous  class meeting.
•Participate fully and constructively in all class activities and
discussions.
•Display  appropriate courtesy  to all involved in the class sessions.
Courteous behavior speciﬁcally entails communicating in a manner
that respects, and is sensitive to, the cultural, religious, sexual, and
other individual differences in the University community.
•Provide constructive feedback to faculty members  regarding  their
performance,  through the university’s formal course evaluation,
administered  at the end of  each  8-week  session .
Class Attendance/Student Accountability   
Due to the intensive nature of each course, students’ success in SCPS
courses will heavily depend on their attendance and participation in the
course.  The choice to pursue a degree or certiﬁcate will  likely involve
adjusting one's schedule to avoid conflicts whenever possible .  The value
placed on class participation as a  component  of the ﬁnal grade in any
course is at the discretion of the individual instructor and will be  stated  in
the syllabus .

--- Page 809 ---
840  School of Continuing and Professional Studies
Courses may include both synchronous and asynchronous components.
Asynchronous coursework is independent coursework students complete
within a certain  time frame , but students  are not required to  be online at
a speciﬁc day or time. Synchronous coursework refers to online meetings
that occur at a designated date and time as set by the course instructor.
Required synchronous meetings will be communicated in advance of a
student registering for a course and are included within the SCPS course
schedule and are held in the evening (6-9pm, CST) or on Saturdays (9am-
Noon, CST).
Students are expected to be present for every required synchronous
meeting of the course. If they are unable to attend a class meeting or if
they will be late for a class, they must notify the instructor in advance of
the absence.  Requests for missed class meetings should only occur for
circumstances that are truly  unavoidable  and students are responsible
for reaching out to their instructor in advance of the start of the session.
Each course’s instructor reserves the right to make judgment on
accepting and/or making up assignments missed because of class
absence for a required meeting. That policy will be clearly expressed
in the course syllabus. Unexcused absences may result in failing the
course.  Please understand, if an instructor allows an excused absence,
even with an approved modiﬁcation to the required meetings for a
course, any change to the required components of a course will  impact
the student’s experience and can  impact  a student’s learning and
performance.
Understanding When a Class Begins  
All classes start with the start of the 8-week session and not when the
ﬁrst required meeting date is scheduled for the course. Any required
meeting a class has, whether it is a synchronous meeting for an online
class or an on-campus meeting, will be clearly listed within the SCPS
course schedule for the semester.
Non-Participation in Class and Withdrawal  
Students must withdraw from a course within LOCUS  to be considered
withdrawn. Non-participation in a class, without formal withdrawal in
LOCUS, does not constitute a withdrawal from a course.  Students who do
not withdraw from a course in LOCUS will have their grade  computed  on
the basis of  the work complete d and  may receive  an ‘F’ grade .
Paralegal Studies Attendance and Participation Policy  
Regular class attendance is  required  for Paralegal Studies (PLST)
classes . Absences in PLST courses are excused only for serious,
unavoidable situations, and you are expected to notify the instructor in
advance of your absence. Absences from classes rescheduled because
of public holidays are not excused, as these dates are provided at the
time of registration.  If you stop attending a class but do not ofﬁcially
withdraw from it, your grade will be computed on the basis of what work
you did complete; you may receive an F if that is the resulting grade.
This accelerated program of paralegal studies requires a heavy
commitment of time and energy. We are all balancing personal and
professional demands. Our responsibility to you is speciﬁcally to prepare
you for a paralegal career. When you miss a class, you lose the beneﬁt
of our knowledge and experience in the legal workplace, as well as our
personal interest in your progress. Your absence may also be unfair to a
group project.In particular, your  absence from class  generally cannot  be excused
because of your job responsibilities.  You are expected to register for a
reasonable course load in light of other demands on your time.
Your success in this program will depend heavily on your attendance and
participation in the classroom.  The instructor has the discretion to decide
whether to accept a late assignment or allow a makeup assignment, and
if so to impose a deduction in the grade for that assignment.  Also, the
value placed on class participation as a  component  of the ﬁnal grade in
any course is at the discretion of the individual instructor.
Any student who has  more than two absences, excused or unexcused,
in a single 8-week session course will not be allowed to continue  in that
course without the Director’s permission.  The student will receive a ﬁnal
course grade calculated on the basis of zero scores on all subsequent
tests and assignments.
The student must petition the Director for this permission in writing
within three business days of the third absence. Relevant factors will
include the student’s performance in the class, the teacher’s assessment
of the student’s ability to master the missed classes and assignments,
and the reason for the absences. As noted above, absences from classes
rescheduled because of holidays are not excused, as these dates are
provided at the time of registration.
If some of the student's absences are excused, the student will have
the opportunity to withdraw from the course,  as long as  the deadline for
dropping a course has not yet passed. The student's grade will then be
recorded as W. However, the student is still responsible for the course
tuition  in accordance with  the University's ofﬁcial withdrawal schedule.
Please note that teachers may continue to use class attendance as part
of the grading criteria. Also, it is at the teacher's discretion to consider
absent a student who arrives late to class or leaves early.
If you cannot attend a class, you are expected to make arrangements
to obtain notes and assignments from other students, and to submit
any assignments due by the appropriate deadline.  It is not  appropriate
to expect your teacher to give you his or her class notes; this would be
unfair to the students who attended the class. Nor is it  appropriate to  ask
the teacher to review or summarize the class for you. Of course, you may
ask the teacher questions after you have reviewed the material.
Students who miss exams or quizzes in a PLST course must immediately
send a message requesting  a makeup  to both the instructor and the
Director. The makeup will be allowed only on  agreement  of the Director
and instructor that a serious, unavoidable situation (such as illness,
family emergencies, or religious holidays) caused the absence.  The
Director and instructor have the discretion to impose a deduction in the
grade for that exam or quiz.
The makeup exam or quiz must then be taken as soon as possible, before
the next class meeting, and during regular ofﬁce hours, 8:30 am to 5
pm. You will be expected to rearrange your work or personal schedule to
accommodate the makeup. To schedule a makeup exam or quiz, please
contact the Institute Ofﬁce, 312-915-6820. 
You may be asked to provide documentation of the reason for your
absence before you  will be  allowed to make up any quiz or exam. A
request to make up  more than one missed quiz or exam within two 8-
week sessions  generally will  not be approved by the Director.

--- Page 810 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 841
Course Registration
Students register for courses via the University’s LOCUS system. 
Registering for a course is the only way to guarantee a place in a course.
  Registration after the session start date will incur a late registration fee. 
SCPS does not operate waitlists for any of its courses.
When registration opens for a semester, SCPS students are advised to
enroll in all sessions within that semester. For example, for fall and spring
16-week semesters, students should enroll in both 8-week session I
and session II. Students who do not enroll in all available sessions may
encounter billing and/or ﬁnancial aid issues for the semester.
A student must be registered in a course before attending any classes or
participating in the course. No student may register for a course after the
late registration period.
Late Enrollments
Students may enroll in a course after it has begun only during the add/
drop period in Week 1 of each 8-week session during the fall and spring
semesters. The add/drop period for summer session courses are shorter,
about 1-2 days. Late registration fees apply to enrollment completed
during the add/drop period. Students should consult the academic
calendar on the SCPS website to learn the dates for add/drop.
Students are strongly discouraged from enrolling after the start of an
8-week session as late enrollment may lead to missed class sessions
and assignments. Students are responsible for informing instructors
immediately of their late enrollment. Instructors are not required to make
accommodations or accept late assignments due to late enrollment. 
Additionally, students should be aware that it takes up to 24 hours for
a student to be uploaded into a course’s Sakai site after enrollment in
LOCUS.
Directed Study
A directed study course is a version of an existing course run with fewer
than 6 students.
Students in a directed study course must provide evidence of learning
as in a regular course, i.e., they must meet learning outcomes and
the minimum expectation for meetings and/or interactions with the
instructor, depending on the number of credits needed. The course format
and time frame may be variable and will be determined between the
student and the instructor.
Students will pay regular tuition per credit for a directed study course.
Paralegal Studies (PLST) courses are not offered in a directed study
format.
Double Dipping
Students are permitted to complete multiple programs (i.e. certiﬁcates,
majors), even if program requirements overlap.
The exception to this is for students completing an individualized
concentration (typically linked to the BA in Applied Studies). Students
completing an individualized concentration may not double dip. Meaning
courses that satisfy Core or other program requirements cannot be
applied toward your individualized concentration.
For students completing multiple programs, conferral of your degree or
certiﬁcate will not be done until program requirements for all programs
have been completed. Please understand, while certiﬁcate requirementsmay be completed prior to ﬁnishing degree requirements, we are not able
confer the certiﬁcate at an earlier point in a student’s time at Loyola.
Conferral for all programs is completed at the same time.
Full Time Status / Registration Limits
To be considered a full-time student, SCPS students must be enrolled for
12 credit hours per 16-week semester.
Students are not required to meet or maintain full-time status to be
in good standing. However, some ﬁnancial aid (student loans and
scholarships), employer tuition reimbursement policies, and other
situations may require full-time status in an educational program. It is
recommended that students conﬁrm the number of courses they are
enrolled in for a given semester with Financial Aid to adjust their budgets
accordingly.
SCPS students, except for paralegal certiﬁcate-seeking students, may
register for no more than 9 credit hours in any one 8-week session. 
Students wanting to take more than the 9 credit hours in any 8-week
session must submit the Session Over Limit Registration Appeal form
(https://sites.google.com/view/scps-share-site/scps-students/student-
forms/?authuser=0 ).
Paralegal Studies Certiﬁcate Registration Limit
Paralegal students may register for no more than 6 semester hours of
courses (three 2-hour courses) in any one 8-week session. Certiﬁcate
students must be enrolled half-time (three 2-hour courses) in any
semester in which they obtain ﬁnancial aid; the Fall I and Fall II sessions
together are considered the Fall Semester, and the Spring I and Spring
II sessions together the Spring Semester. The Summer Session is
considered a separate semester.
Grade and Grading Policies
The University uses letter grades and plus/minus indicators to indicate
the quality of a student’s achievement in a course. The chart below
shows the standardized grading scale used by all SCPS faculty for
converting numerical scores into letter grades. No "A+" or "D-" grade is
available.GradeGrade Points
A 4.0A-3.67
B+ 3.33B3.0
B- 2.67C+2.33
C 2.0C-1.67
D+ 1.33D1.0
F 0
Minimum Grade Requirements
Minimum grades are also required in certain courses, as noted in the
chart below:
CPST 200  - Minimum required grade of " P"
CPST 201, CPST 397, and UCWR 110  - Minimum required grade of " C-"

--- Page 811 ---
842  School of Continuing and Professional Studies
Classes taken for LUC Core or IAI  - Minimum required grade of " D"
Major Classes  - Minimum Required grade of " C-"
Certiﬁcate or Concentration Classes  - Minimum required grade of " C-"
*If the student’s grade is NP , the student must repeat the class and earn a
passing (P) grade.
No Record (NR) Grade
The notation “NR” is assigned in LOCUS for any course in which the
student is enrolled but has not participated. Criteria for determining
participation includes, but is not limited to:
•Physically attending a class where there is an opportunity for direct
interaction between the instructor and students.
•Submitting an academic assignment.
•Taking an exam, an interactive tutorial, or computer-assisted
instruction.
•Attending a study group that is assigned by the institution.
•Participating in an online discussion about academic matters.
•Initiating contact with a faculty member to ask a question or discuss
a matter related to the course.
•For online or blended course, participation and attendance is deﬁned
as any class activity, including logging into the course on Sakai and
accessing any of the course materials.
Pass/No-Pass Option
Students may take a course on a pass (P)/no pass (NP) basis. SCPS
students adhere to university policy and students should review the
policy and process found in the Academic Catalog. The pass/no pass
option is not available for program required courses (major, certiﬁcate,
etc.)
CPST 200 Introduction to Degree Completion  is graded P/NP and is
counted in the total attempted credit hours.
Students should be aware that the appearance of "P" and "NP" grades
on their transcripts may have an adverse effect on transferring to other
schools and acceptance by graduate or professional schools.
Incomplete (I) Grade
SCPS expects students to complete all coursework by the end of the
session or term during which a course is taken. However, if a student and
the instructor make arrangements in advance, a student may receive a
grade of Incomplete (I) at the end of the session/term. The student is to
complete the outstanding work and submit it to the instructor a ccording
to a schedule approved by the instructor, subject to the following SCPS
policies.
A grade of Incomplete for a course is assigned at the instructo r’s
discretion, when justiﬁed by unexpected, disruptive situations or
circumstances beyond the student’s control. These may include personal
illness or injury, a death in the immediate family, a natural disaster,
or other such emergency. Documentation may be required, at the
instructor’s discretion.
Incomplete requests should only be submitted where a student has
completed a signiﬁcant portion of the course, and required coursework,
and circumstances prevent the student from ﬁnishing remaining
requirements by the end of the class. For example, if a student has
been actively participating in and keeping up with coursework and they
encounter life circumstances within the ﬁnal few weeks of a course thatprevents them from completing successfully, they should contact the
instructor to request an incomplete. This request is not meant to be
used in those situations where students have been non-participatory
throughout the course and need additional time to make up missed
assignments from the bulk of the course. In those cases, the student
should contact their primary academic advisor to discuss their options.
For any incomplete request, the student must initiate the request by
submitting the Incomplete form, found on the Registration and R ecords
website, to the instructor. The instructor will then complete and submit
the form according to its instructions and, if approved, enter the grade of
Incomplete for the student in LOCUS.
The student must comply with all conditions speciﬁed on the form. The
latest deadline permitted for submitting the missing work is six weeks
after the start of the subsequent semester, but the instructor may specify
an earlier due date. If the student does not submit the missing  work by
the deadline, the instructor enters a grade based on the work completed.
Late and Extra Credit Assignments
Instructors include an explanation of the grading criteria for each
course on the syllabus. Late assignments (if accepted) and exams or
quizzes taken late (if permitted) may be marked down, at the instructor's
discretion.
If an instructor chooses to offer extra credit assignments (there is no
obligation to do so), they will be noted on the course syllabus distributed
at the beginning of the course.  Students should not expect to make up
poor grades entirely through extra credit assignments.
 
Graduation / Commencement
The University awards degrees and certiﬁcates four times within each
academic year, after every semester: fall semester (December), J-
term(January), spring semester (May), and summer semester (August).
Prospective graduates must submit a graduation application in LOCUS. 
Deadlines for the LOCUS undergraduate application are as follows:
•Fall graduation: March 1
•Spring graduation: October 1
•Summer graduation: October 1
•J-term graduation: November 1
All ﬁnancial obligations to the University must be satisﬁed before the
diploma or certiﬁcate can be mailed.
Laudatory Status/Honors
Students with transfer credit applying toward their degree requirements
must complete a minimum of 60 graded Loyola credit hours (excluding
pass-no pass hours) to be eligible for academic honors. The computation
of a student’s Loyola cumulative GPA is based on the student's entire
academic career at Loyola.
Laudatory honors will be determined per the qualiﬁcations noted in the
Academic Catalog.
Paralegal Studies Certiﬁcate Graduates
Earning a certiﬁcate does not make a graduate a “certiﬁed paralegal. ”
No school can award the status of “certiﬁed paralegal, ” which is a
designation given only by professional associations (such as NALA
and NFPA) to persons who meet their qualiﬁcations. Employers who

--- Page 812 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 843
ask for “certiﬁed paralegals” are almost always seeking paralegals with
certiﬁcates; we know of no exceptions to this practice locally.
Commencement
The School of Continuing and Professional Studies has a commencement
ceremony each year at the end of the spring semester in May on the
Lake Shore Campus. Information can be found online at the University’s
Commencement website: https://www.luc.edu/commencement/
The May Commencement ceremony includes graduates from the fall,
spring, and summer semesters within that academic year.
Honor Societies
Alpha Sigma Lambda (ASL)
Invitations are sent via email in October/November of each year and  ASL
Inductees are recognized at an annual induction ceremony hosted by
SCPS  in December .
Alpha Sigma Nu (ASN)
Alpha Sigma Nu inductees rank in the top 15%, academically, of students
in the School of Continuing & Professional Studies. Loyola University
Chicago inducts fewer than 5% of its students each year, so it considers
Alpha Sigma Nu to be one of the highest honors the University can
bestow.
Eligible students are sent an invitation to apply and must meet the
following criteria:
•Actively enrolled at time of induction
•Undergraduate students must be juniors or seniors at the time of
induction.
•Undergraduate transfers must have completed 1-1/2 semesters at a
Jesuit institution.
•Graduate students must have completed 1/2 of their credit
requirements at the time of induction
•Must be in the top 15% of their class
•Demonstrated participation in service activities
Lambda Epsilon Chi (LEX)
Lambda Epsilon Chi (LEX)  is the National Honor Society in Paralegal/
Legal Assistant Studies sponsored by the American Association for
Paralegal Education.
Paralegal s tudents who have completed two-thirds of the program
requirements toward their original certiﬁcate or degree at Loyola are
eligible for induction into LEX if they  demonstrate  “superior academic
performance. ” The Institute faculty has deﬁned this standard as a
minimum of a 3.7  cumulative grade point average and placement in the
top 20% of eligible students. Two-thirds of the program requirements  is
calculated as 16  semester hours of PLST courses.
Only students working on their original paralegal certiﬁcates or degrees
at Loyola will be considered for LEX membership, and no more than the
ﬁrst 28 hours of PLST courses will be considered in  determining  the
student’s GPA for this purpose. Also, only Institute PLST courses will be
included in this GPA calculation.
LEX inductees are recognized at an annual induction ceremony hosted by
SCPS in December.SCPS Dean’s List
For the fall and spring semesters, students who complete 12 credit hours
during the semester and achieved a minimum semester GPA of 3.7 or
higher are named to the SCPS Dean’s List at the end of the semester.
Leave of Absence
Stop-Out Deﬁnition
A stop-out student is a student who has not enrolled for one semester/
term or more. Students who do not enroll in a single 8-week session
within the semester but enroll in the other 8-week session will not be
considered a stop-out student.
Leave of Absence Policy
We recommend that students  remain  continuously enrolled and
complete courses within the  time frame  set within your  initial  advising
appointment. However, we understand circumstances may require you to
step away from classes.
Students who need to stop-out of enrollment for anywhere from one
semester up to one year, may request a leave of absence. Students
should request a leave of absence before the start of the fall or spring
semester, and no later than the start of the 8-week second session for the
semester. Students choosing not to enroll in the summer semester do not
need to request a leave of absence.
Students must  submit  the leave of absence form to their primary
academic advisor to request a leave.
Paralegal Studies Certiﬁcate Students Time to
Completion
Paralegal post-baccalaureate certiﬁcate students have up to three (3)
calendar years to complete all program requirements and should consult
with their advisor when making any adjustments to their schedule.
Returning from Leave/Extending Leave
Students on leave should contact their primary academic advisor when
they are prepared to return to classes. Ideally, students should allow at
least one month prior to the start of the semester to prepare for a return
from leave.
If students need to extend their leave of absence, they should contact
their primary academic advisor with this request. Extensions can only be
provided to students who have requested  a leave  of less than one year, or
three consecutive semesters.
Discontinuation & Readmission
Students who do not return from a leave of absence will be withdrawn
from the university.
Withdrawn students may apply for admission to SCPS if they wish to
return to classes. Students will be held to the degree requirements of the
catalog year in which they are readmitted.
Applicants for readmission who have been dropped from Loyola for poor
scholarship may apply for readmission only after complying with all
terms outlined in their dismissal letter.
Applicants for readmission who have been dropped from Loyola for
disciplinary reasons must have their applications for readmission
reviewed by the Dean of Students Ofﬁce. If the Dean approves

--- Page 813 ---
844  School of Continuing and Professional Studies
readmission, the application will be reviewed according to the regulations
stated above.
Non-Traditional Credit
Non-traditional credit is credit earned by  demonstrating  knowledge
gained through experience, either personal or professional.  Adult
students , in particular, often  have a reservoir of college-level learning
gained through professional and personal accomplishments that they
can use to earn non-traditional credit toward select SCPS program
requirements.
Students may  apply  up to 36 non-traditional credit hours to the
completion of their undergraduate degree  with SCPS.
Non-Traditional Credit Parameters  
Non-traditional credits may not be applied toward the mission-speciﬁc
courses, SCPS school requirements, or to the Loyola residency
requirement .  Non-traditional credit does not factor into the Loyola GPA.
•Non-traditional credit may not be applied toward mission-speciﬁc
requirements (THEO or PHIL  courses ) or school  requirements
(CPST 200 , CPST 201 , CPST 397 , and UCWR 110  ).
•Non-traditional credit may be applied to no  more than  four ( 4) courses
toward major  requirements . If transfer credit is applied toward major
requirements, the availability of non-traditional credit options toward
the major may be reduced as half of the major must be completed
with Loyola academic credit.  (BA Management majors should refer
to the major speciﬁc policy within  the transfer credit p olicy section  of
the catalog.)
•Non-traditional credit may be applied to n o more than  two (2) courses
of an  18 credit  hour certiﬁcate or concentration
•Only select CLEP exams can complete speciﬁc CORE requirements
Accepted Forms of  Non-Tradi tional Credit  
SCPS  has identiﬁed  the following as accepted forms of non-traditional
credit:
•Credit by examination (CLEP /DSST)
•American Council on Education (ACE) evaluated credit
•Military  Training/Education (CCAF/JST)
•Police  Academy  Training
Credit by Examination (CLEP/DSST)  
Students may take CLEP and/or DSST examinations only if they:
•have not previously completed, failed, or received credit from Loyola
University Chicago (transfer or otherwise) in a comparable or more
advanced course in the speciﬁc examination area
•will not receive comparable credit in the CLEP examination area in the
same term the examination is taken or in a  subsequent  term.
Students must receive a passing score on a CLEP or DSST exams
approved by the University to count for college-level credit:
•CLEP Exam List
•DSST Exam ListAmerican Council on Education (ACE)  
The American Council on Education (ACE) evaluates 35,000+ workplace,
military and non-collegiate learning experiences and training programs
for college credit. Depending on the program or experience completed
and approved by ACE, students may apply those credits to major and/or
general elective hours, if applicable .
•For work already completed , students can move forward with ordering
the transcript from ACE. Once  submitted , your transcript will be
reviewed to  determine  how the credit will transfer.
•If a student is considering taking an exam or course that has
been reviewed by ACE, and they haven't  yet completed the work ,
they should work with their primary academic advisor ﬁrst to
determine  if the credit will be accepted and how it may apply toward
requirements.
Students who believe they have completed an evaluated program should
review the ACE National Guide .
Year Up  
The School of Continuing and Professional Studies is a partner with
Year Up Chicago. Year Up courses have been reviewed by the American
Council on Education (ACE). Students who have completed coursework
through Year Up should  submit  an ofﬁcial ACE transcript. All Year Up
courses will transfer as general elective credit and go toward the 120
credit hours students need to complete their bachelor's degree with
Loyola.
Military Training/Education  
Students who have completed military training should  order their military
transcript  (both JST And CCAF) through the American Council on
Education (ACE).
Police Training  
Students who have completed the education provided by the Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Police Academy will be awarded  20 credit hours
to be  applied  as general elective credits.
Students must  submit  a copy of their CPD Academic certiﬁcate of
completion to their academic advisor. This certiﬁcate of completion will
also be cross-checked against the  Illinois Law Enforcement Training and
Standards Board database .
Paralegal Studies Instructional Hours
Most PLST courses award 2 semester hours of credit. The ABA
Guidelines for the Approval of Paralegal Education Programs require
that a 2-s.h. course include 25 instructional hours. Therefore, in addition
to the 24 hours of classroom instruction (class meetings three hours
each week for eight weeks), each in-person PLST course will include an
additional hour of instruction, determined at the teacher’s discretion. For
example, a teacher may schedule a review session before an exam, a
Forums (discussion board) posting assignment on Sakai, or something
similar. Teachers will include this extra hour of instruction in their syllabi
each session.
 

--- Page 814 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 845
Repeated Courses
SCPS students must adhere to the repeated course policy found in the
Academic Standards and Regulations  (https://catalog.luc.edu/academic-
standards-regulations/undergraduate/ ).
CPST 200: Admission on Probation
Students who are admitted on probation to SCPS must successfully pass
CPST 200  in their ﬁrst session. Students who receive an ‘NP’ grade will be
dismissed from the program. Students on probation who withdraw from
CPST 200  in their ﬁrst session will be allowed to enroll in a subsequent
session. Students on probation who withdraw from CPST 200  in their
second attempt will be dismissed from the program.
CPST 200: Unconditional Admission
Students who are admitted unconditionally to SCPS must complete
CPST 200  in their ﬁrst session. Students who receive an ‘NP’ grade
in their ﬁrst attempt will be required to repeat the course in their next
enrolled session and will not be permitted to enroll in any other courses
unless permission is granted from the student’s advisor.
Incomplete grades will not be granted for students taking the class for
the second time. Students who do not pass CPST 200  on the second
attempt will be dismissed from the program.
Residency Requirement
Degree-seeking students must take their ﬁnal, uninterrupted 45 credit
hours, or a minimum of 60 total credit hours, in residence at Loyola
University Chicago. Residency requirements also apply to majors: half
of the credits applied toward the major must be earned at Loyola.  (BA
Management majors should refer to the  management  major speciﬁc
policy within the transfer credit policy section of the catalog.)
For certiﬁcates consisting of 18 credit hours, up to 6 credits may be
accepted in transfer or completed via non-traditional credit, and all other
required credits must be earned at Loyola.
The following certiﬁcates must be completed entirely with Loyola
academic credit:
•Computer Science certiﬁcate
•New Media Communication certiﬁcate. Students may apply transfer
credit toward COMM 175  but an additional COMM course must be
taken to earn the 9 total credit hours to complete the certiﬁcate.
The following certiﬁcates allow the application of 1 course (3 credit
hours) in transfer credit:
•Cybersecurity Technology Management certiﬁcate
•Introduction to Data Science (credit must be from work completed
within the last 5 years)
•User Experience Design certiﬁcate (credit must be from work
completed within the last 5 years)
•Web Design and Development certiﬁcate (credit must be from work
completed within the last 5 years)
There is no residency requirement for the transfer-oriented individualized
concentration which requires approval by the Assistant Dean or designee.
Students admitted to a SCPS certiﬁcate program can apply courses/
credit completed as part of the certiﬁcate program toward a future SCPS
degree program, where applicable.Transfer Credit
Loyola SCPS accepts transfer credit earned from regionally accredited
institutions. We can accept up to 64 credit hours across all two-year
institutions (community colleges), and an unlimited number of c redit
hours from four-year universities.
Students who have completed either an A.A., A.S., or  General Education
Core Curriculum  will have met Loyola's Core Curriculum requirements,
with the exception of mission-speciﬁc courses.
Loyola is a receiving institution in the Illinois Articulation Initiative
program for awarding transfer credit. Students who have completed 30
or more transfer credits may follow either the  Illinois General Education
curriculum  or the  Loyola CORE requirements  to satisfy general education
requirements. Students with less than 30 will follow the CORE.
Transfer courses that are remedial, not college level, may not be used to
satisfy degree requirements and will not transfer.
Grade Requirements  
College-level credit courses from regionally accredited institutions will
be accepted in SCPS if the student earned a passing grade . Courses
received in transfer  must also adhere to the grade requirements , found
under Grade and Grading Policies section , in order to satisfy program
requirements.  When transfer courses do not meet the grade requirements
for a program, a student may need to repeat the course at LUC. 
Enrolling in Courses Elsewhere  
Any coursework taken after a student starts courses with Loyola will
not be considered for transfer unless the student  submits  an appeal
and receives approval  before enrolling in the course(s) . Courses taken
elsewhere  must meet  the requirements outlined in the  Academic
Catalog. 
Certiﬁcates and Transfer Credit  
For certiﬁcates consisting of 18 credit hours, up to 6 credits may be
accepted in transfer or completed via non-traditional credit, and all other
required credits must be earned at Loyola.
The following certiﬁcates must be completed entirely with Loyola
academic credit:
•Computer Science certiﬁcate
•New Media Communication certiﬁcate.
Students may apply transfer credit toward COMM 175 but an  additional
COMM course must be taken to earn the 9 total credit hours to complete
the certiﬁcate.
The following certiﬁcates allow the application of 1 course (3 credit
hours) in transfer credit:
•Cybersecurity Technology Management certiﬁcate
•Introduction to Data Science (credit must be from work completed
within the last 5 years)
•User Experience Design certiﬁcate (credit must be from work
completed within the last 5 years)
•Web Design and Development certiﬁcate (credit must be from work
completed within the last 5 years)

--- Page 815 ---
846  School of Continuing and Professional Studies
Management BA Transfer Credit Policy  
SCPS students completing a Management BA are limited in the number
of business-related courses that can either be taken at Loyola or
transferred from another institution. These limitations are set in response
to the accreditation requirements  determined  by the Association to
Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). A business-related
course is a course where course content  includes:
•Accounting
•Economics
•Finance
•Management
•Marketing
•Quantitative methods
•Legal studies
•Management information systems
No more than 25% of a BA Management student's total program may
include business-related courses. The total degree requirement for a
BA student is 120 credit hours, which means BA Management students
may not transfer or take at Loyola more than a combined 30 credit
hours of business-related courses. Students should work with their
primary academic advisor to understand how this  impacts  their program
requirements.
Paralegal Studies  Certiﬁcate Transfer  Credit   
Transfer credit may be available for courses taken at another paralegal
program, or at an ABA-accredited law school,  before applying to the
Institute . The courses must be comparable to speciﬁc Institute paralegal
courses, including instruction in practical paralegal skills.
Transfer credit towards the post-baccalaureate paralegal certiﬁcate is
limited to 6 semester hours. University policy requires that the institution
offering the paralegal program be regionally accredited and that the
student have earned a grade of C- or higher. The student must  submit  an
ofﬁcial transcript conﬁrming the grade and may  be required  to provide
documentation of the course content. The Director has the  discretion  to
determine  whether transfer credit will be awarded.
Students currently enrolled in the Institute will not receive transfer credit
for courses taken elsewhere except with the advance approval of the
Director, which is granted only in unusual situations and at the Director's
discretion.
Special Note : Paralegal certiﬁcate students with transfer credit will have
access to all career  assistance  services at the Institute once they have
completed two-thirds of their required credit hours toward the Loyola
paralegal certiﬁcate.
Withdrawal / Registration Changes
A grade of "W" indicates ofﬁcial withdrawal from a course during
the withdrawal period (see academic calendar on SCPS website for
dates). The grade of "W" is not counted in computation of academic
standing as either attempted or earned credit hours, nor calculated in the
grade point average.
The ﬁnancial impact of changes after the late/change registration period
is determined in accordance with the University’s withdrawal schedule,
available on the Bursar’s website. The website provides the ofﬁcialschedule for each term, but generally, the schedule for fall and spring
semester 8-week sessions is as follows:
First week of session -  100% of tuition credit
Second week of session -  80% of tuition credit
Third week of session -  40% of tuition credit
Fourth week of session and after -  0% of tuition credit
The effective date of withdrawal is determined by the date the course
is dropped in LOCUS, not by class attendance. In an online or blended
course, participation and attendance are deﬁned as any class activity,
including logging into the course on Sakai and accessing any of the
course materials. A student who does not ofﬁcially withdraw from a
course will receive a grade based only on the work completed and will
remain responsible for all charges for that course.
Students may not withdraw after the withdrawal deadline and, after
the deadline date, will be assigned the grade earned based on work
completed. For students dealing with extenuating circumstances
preventing participation in a course, they may submit an appeal to
change for change in academic record.
Students may work with their primary academic advisor to learn more
about the appeal process and ﬁnd further information in the university’s
academic catalog  under Academic Appeals  (https://catalog.luc.edu/
academic-standards-regulations/undergraduate/ ).
The Financial Aid Ofﬁce is required to recalculate ﬁnancial aid eligibility
for students who withdraw from classes before 60% of the course has
been completed. This includes a recalculation for withdrawals where the
effective date of withdrawal is adjusted after an approved appeal.
Writing Requirement
Upon admission, degree-seeking students who haven’t
satisﬁed  UCWR 110 Writing Responsibly  with either transfer credit or
prior Loyola academic credit, must complete the Writing Placement
Assessment (WPA). Students will be sent an email with further details
about completing the WPA after admission.
Understanding the Writing Placement Assessment
(WPA) Score
•If a student tests at 110 they will take  UCWR 110  with Loyola in the
next session available.
•If a student tests at 100 they take  ENGL 100  (directed study) with
Loyola in the next available session followed by  UCWR 110  with
Loyola in the next available session.
•If a student tests at 103 they take  ENGL 103  (directed study) with
Loyola in the next available session followed by  UCWR 110  with
Loyola in the next available session.
•If a student tests at 219 they take  UCWR 109  (directed study)
and  UCWR 110  with Loyola concurrently in the next available session.
 

--- Page 816 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 847
Applied Criminal Justice Leadership
(ACJL)
ACJL 310   Organizational Leadership in Criminal Justice   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course provides an introduction to the study of criminal justice
organizations and leadership practices. It includes a review of leadership
styles, budgeting, communication with members, personnel problems,
maintaining organizational accountability, promoting and responding to
internal and externally-imposed reforms, and other leadership challenges.
Restricted to Applied Criminal Justice Leadership majors only.
Outcomes:
Discuss leadership challenges in criminal justice organizations
and institutions; Describe best leadership practices for continuing
improvement and effectiveness; Research and review the academic
literature associated with police leadership and management; Critically
assess the strengths and weaknesses of the major theories of police
leadership and management
ACJL 320   Ethics, Justice, Leadership   (3 Credit Hours)   
Study of ethical obligations of criminal justice personnel and the
meaning of justice, with emphasis on law enforcement and corrections
components; includes management strategies and accountability for
ensuring ethical conduct, civilian review and discipline, civil liability, and
importance of leadership in promoting and maintain an ethical and just
work environment. Restricted to Applied Criminal Justice Leadership
majors only.
Outcomes:
Apply basic principles of moral theory and concepts of justice to ethical
issues, moral dilemmas, and other challenges facing actors working
within the criminal justice system; Use methods and strategies for
effective leadership skills to promote an ethical environment in criminal
justice organizations; Foster an ethical organizational environment,
including ethics training, development of codes of ethics and rules of
professional responsibility; Adopt methods of promoting accountability,
including technological and civilian review of accountability systems, and
effective disciplinary mechanisms; Identify strategies for investigating
systemic criminal justice system misconduct
ACJL 330   Community Policing in the 21st Century   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines the history and development of police community
relations and its importance for crime control. Topics covered
include community policing, problem oriented policing, and the
effect of aggressive patrol strategies on community relations. The
recommendations of the President's Task Force on 21st Century Policing
are also examined. Restricted to Applied Criminal Justice Leadership
majors only.
Outcomes:
Examine the history and development of effective police community
relations and its importance for crime control; Recognize the role
of racial, class, and cultural identities in a diverse American society
and the effect of racial proﬁling and unconscious bias on community
relations; Describe community policing, problem-solving policing, and
other emerging strategies; Research and review the academic literature
associated with the study of community policing; Critically assess
the strengths and weaknesses of the major theories of community
policing; Discuss the recommendations of the President's Task Force
on 21st Century Policing, including the adoption of internal and external
procedural justice, a guardian culture, and less than lethal force
standardsACJL 340   Effective Communication in Criminal Justice   (3 Credit Hours)   
Effective written and oral communication for CJ personnel; includes
grammar, spelling, punctuation, chronological articulation, and writing
style in investigative reports and other documentation, public speaking,
active listening skills, conducting interviews, providing oral witness
testimony in criminal prosecutions, and managing media relations and
communications. Restricted to Applied Criminal Justice Leadership
majors only.
Outcomes:
Develop effective written and oral communication for rank and ﬁle and
supervisory criminal justice personnel; Use proper grammar, spelling,
punctuation, chronological articulation, and writing style in investigative
notes, reports, and other documentation; Practice effective public
speaking; Employ active listening skills and positive personal interactions
with citizens; Practice conducting interviews, providing oral witness
testimony in criminal prosecutions, and managing media relations and
communications
ACJL 350   Conflict Management and Communication   (3 Credit Hours)   
Study of challenges confronting police and correctional personnel in
conflict situations arising from order maintenance and other forms of
social control; the role of systemic social problems such as mental
illness, family violence, and substance abuse in conflict situations;
strategies and best practices for violence avoidance and de-escalation.
Restricted to Applied Criminal Justice Leadership majors only.
Outcomes:
Discuss the challenges confronting police and correctional personnel in
conflict situations arising from order maintenance, arrests, supervision
of offenders, and other forms of social control; Describe the role of
systemic social problems, mental illness, family violence, elder abuse and
neglect, and substance and alcohol abuse in conflict situations; Identify
strategies and best practices for violence avoidance and de-escalation;
Apply theories of how conflict happens; Practice the essential skills of
effective listening, negotiating, mediating, and leading others to resolve
conflicts
ACJL 360   Cyber-Crime Detection and Investigation   (3 Credit Hours)   
Reviews computer-based criminal activities and criminal investigative
methods used for investigation, apprehension, and prevention; includes
hacking, identity theft, bitcoins, stalking, human trafﬁcking, and other
forms of computer fraud and crime; reviews digital security methods,
cell phone tracking, social media, and other means of investigating such
crimes. Restricted to Applied Criminal Justice Leadership major s only.
Outcomes:
Describe contemporary, computer-based criminal activities, including
hacking, identity theft, bitcoins, stalking, human trafﬁcking, and
other forms of computer fraud and crime; Identify modern criminal
investigative methods used for investigation, apprehension, and
prevention; Evaluate digital security methods, cell phone tracking, social
media, and other means of investigating such crimes
ACJL 370   Crime Analysis   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides an overview of the analytical methods used by
criminal justice agencies including crime analysis, mapping, an d program
evaluation. The class will focus on best practices and the application of
current technology. Restricted to Applied Criminal Justice Leadership
majors only.
Outcomes:
Discuss issues in crime analysis and crime mapping; Critique cu rrent
practices; Identify technologies used in crime analysis; Describe the
techniques of crime analysis and crime mapping and how they are
practiced in everyday policing; Apply social science research methods
and data analysis to crime analysis

--- Page 817 ---
848  School of Continuing and Professional Studies
ACJL 380   Investigation Management   (3 Credit Hours)   
A review of best practices in the management of investigative personnel,
resources, and strategies in major and routine criminal investigation
including proactive and reactive tactics for crimes against property,
persons, vice, and narcotics. Traditional versus intelligence-led policing,
COMPSTAT , and state versus federal investigations are also covered.
Restricted to Applied Criminal Justice Leadership majors only.
Outcomes:
Describe best practices in management of investigatory personnel,
resources, and strategies in major and routine criminal investigation;
Assess proactive and reactive tactics for crimes against property,
persons, and vice and narcotics, traditional versus intelligence-led
policing, COMPSTAT , and state versus federal investigations; Research
and analyze the academic literature associated with managing criminal
investigations; Critically assess the practices used to manage criminal
investigations
ACJL 385   Advanced Criminal Procedure   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course reviews basic 4th Amendment search and seizure law,
including exceptions to the general warrant requirement, and exceptions
to the exclusionary rule. It proceeds to study individual and agency
liability for excessive force by law enforcement and correctional ofﬁcers,
unauthorized eavesdropping, digital information gathering, and related
topics. Restricted to Applied Criminal Justice Leadership major s only.
Outcomes:
Deﬁne the legal principles governing law enforcement emanating from
the 4th, 5th, and 6th Amendments to the Constitution of the US; Describe
the manner in which those principles have been derived from both the
text and the interpretations of those constitutional amendments; Practice
the language of criminal law practitioners and others in the co urthouse
"workgroup"; Identify legal issues arising from law enforcement criminal
investigations and methods in different factual circumstances; Apply
constitutional law principles for the resolution of criminal procedure
issues
ACJL 395   Special Topics in Criminal Justice Leadership   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course focusses on different relevant, special topics in criminal
justice. These include criminal proﬁling, terrorism, private security, new
constitutional developments in search and seizure law, gang intelligence,
militarization of police, and other timely topics. Restricted to Applied
Criminal Justice Leadership majors only.
Outcomes:
Students will learn about a speciﬁc, timely topic critical to c ontemporary
criminal justice functions
Continuing Professional Studies (CPST)
CPST 165   Special Topics   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Course titles and content vary from term to term. Permission is required
to enroll.
CPST 195   Special Topics in Management   (3 Credit Hours)   
Introductory course focusing on specialized areas in management
leadership.
Outcomes:
The student will become familiar with the practices of the speciﬁc
discipline under each subheading, as well as the technical and theoretical
means to accomplish the goals of each topicCPST 200   Introduction to Degree Completion   (3 Credit Hours)   
Enrollment is restricted to SCPS degree students only. CPST 200 exists
to give newly admitted adult students a chance to ease themselves back
into the academic environment while highlighting all of the tools and
services available through the university. Improved academic writing
through use of multiple drafts.
Outcomes:
Exposure to/familiarity with LUC resources
CPST 201   Civic Identity and Development   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CPST 200; Co-requisite: UCWR 110; Enrollment is restricted
to students in the School of Continuing and Professional Studies   
In this course, students will examine their interconnected identities
as engaged professionals in their communities using a variety of
frameworks. They will learn to leverage the assets of their communities
to enact positive change while also leveraging their own assets to grow
as individuals. This course will also prepare students for the design
and execution of the SCPS capstone project later on in their academic
program.
Outcomes:
Students will develop civic awareness through examination of their
identities and meaningful engagement with their communities
CPST 205   Prior Learning Assessment Portfolio   (1 Credit Hour)   
In the course, students will learn to develop a PLA Portfolio and
document their prior learning by reflecting on relevant prior experiential
learning and identifying college level learning outcomes.
Outcomes:
Submission of draft portfolio with resume, autobiographical essay,
proposed learning essays, and at least one completed section that
demonstrates learning and evidence of relevant professional and/or
personal experience
CPST 210   Introduction to Leadership Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course begins the Leadership certiﬁcate program and the Bachelor
of Arts in Leadership. This course consists of the SCPS Assessment
Center experience, a 2-day leadership assessment. At the conclusion of
the Assessment Center experience, students will receive an assessment
of the skills and knowledge in each of six domains. These are Problem
Solving and Decision Making, Organizing and Planning, Relationship
Building, Influence, Communications, and Intra-personal Leadership.
These are equated to the 6 courses in the Leadership certiﬁcate/major.
A credit award toward the course satisﬁed will be posted to the student's
transcript. The student will then enroll in the remaining courses and
will have one year from ﬁrst enrollment to complete the remaining
courses. Students in CPST 210 will subsequently meet with the advisor
and develop a plan for completion of the certiﬁcate/major. Students
who complete the SCPS Assessment Center and develop their plan for
completion of the certiﬁcate or major will have successfully completed
the course. Restricted to students in SCPS.

--- Page 818 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 849
CPST 215   Individual Finance & Planning   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the methods, features and techniques for
personal ﬁnancial planning. Tools applicable for ﬁnancial decision-
making, such as marginal analysis, opportunity cost, and the balancing or
risk and return will be covered in this class. The course will also discuss
the aspects of such topics as budgeting, credit cards, insurance 401k-
investments and portfolio investments. The course will concentrate
on personal ﬁnance topics with an emphasis on planning (budgeting,
tax and insurance coverage), ﬁnancing large asset purchases, money
management, investing strategies and retirement planning. Restricted to
students in the School of Continuing & Professional Studies. At the end
of the course the student will be able to 1. Develop a ﬁnancial plan and
create personal ﬁnancial statements 2. Evaluate present/future value of
a dollar/annuity 3. Describe components of interest rates 4. Identify risks
associated with money market investments and identity theft tactics
5. Manage credit scores and ﬁnancing options for personal loans (car/
house) 6. Protect wealth with insurance (auto, home, medical, life) 7.
Assess common types of investments, risk and rate of return 8. Analyze
a stock, bond value, diversiﬁcation, retirement plans and social security
9. Utilize different ﬁnancial tools such as budgeting, managing liquidity,
personal loans, insurance, and investing fundamentals (stocks, bonds,
mutual funds, asset allocation and retirement planning).
CPST 242   Design for the Web   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course prepares students to develop webpages through a study
of Hypertext Markup Language (HTML), Cascading Style Sheets (CSS),
Usability principles and Design principles. This course will teach students
to plan, design, and construct webpages to work properly in modern web
browsers, conforming to web standards while following best practices.
Students will be able to: identify graphic design principles th at relate to
web design, develop webpages with HTML; style webpages with CSS;
design and implement wireframes and mockups for websites.
CPST 243   Microeconomics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Restricted to students in the School of Continuing & Professional
Studies. Introduction to economic analysis of the smaller components
of the economy, household, ﬁrm and industry. Topics include economic,
socio-economic, and political economic issues; includes a focus on
behavioral economics; and provides students with an opportunity to
analyze real world economic and public policy decisions that have been
influenced by non-economic factors included within its ﬁeld.
Course equivalencies:  ECON201/201H/ACECO201/CPST243   
Outcomes:
1) Explain the law of supply and demand; 2) Distinguish characteristics of
different market structures; 3) Analyze how consumers maximize utility;
4) Apply behavioral theory to economic decision-making; 5) Analyze
real world microeconomic decisions; 6) Research a topic and present
recommendationsCPST 245   Macroeconomics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Restricted to students in the School of Continuing & Professional
Studies. Introduces economic analysis that studies system wide
phenomena including inflation, economic growth and development and
unemployment. Includes a focus on behavioral economics, and provides
students with an opportunity to analyze real world economic and public
policy decisions that have been influenced by non-economic factors
included within its ﬁeld.
Course equivalencies:  ECON202/ECON202H/ACECO202/245   
Outcomes:
1) Explain the law of supply and demand; 2) Describe the nature of
macroeconomic issues and problems; 3) Articulate the objectives of
monetary and ﬁscal policies and the function of the two principal policy
makers; 4) Analyze historical macroeconomic crises; 5) Discuss basic
macroeconomic goals such as GDP , CPI and unemployment; 6) Assess
public policy decisions from a behavioral economic perspective
CPST 247   Computer Concepts and Applications   (3 Credit Hours)   
An introduction to computer and internet resources and skills with an
emphasis on effective use of technology in the work place. Students will
learn to identify and provide recommendations for technology-based
issues in business using industry standard language, identify changes in
information technologies and assess the impact on business and society.
Restricted to students in the School of Continuing and Professional
Studies.
Outcomes:
Understand the purpose and composition of information systems
in business, and receive hands on experience developing business
applications with tools such as Microsoft Ofﬁce, social media, basic
website construction
CPST 248   User Experience Design Fundamentals   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students are introduced to UX research and learn techniques of how
to effectively evaluate and compare designs objectively. Students will
be able to read and draw actionable conclusions from UX studies.
Students will understand the UX Design process, including the use of
personas, task models, and user journey mapping. Students will be able
to: evaluate UX Design using objective metrics; conduct UX studies to
derive actionable conclusions from UX Research; Understand personas,
task models, and user journey mapping.
CPST 249   User Experience Design Tools and Techniques   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CPST 248 with C- or better   
The course focuses on user and task analysis (goal setting and problem
framing), ﬁeld research (interviews, personas, planning, etc.), usability
testing, the UX process (from wireframes through user journey mapping).
These topics are explored through Design assignments that utilize the
complete UX Design process. Students will be able to: apply the UX
Prototyping process and UX Design Tools; apply the UX Design process,
including the use of personas, task models, and user journey mapping.
CPST 250   Foundations of Organizations   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CPST courses are restricted to students in the School of
Continuing and Professional Studies   
An introduction to contemporary management with emphasis on
organizational culture, decision making, organizational structure and
design, planning, communication and information technology.
Course equivalencies:  MGMT201/201H/301/CPST250/ACMGT   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the managerial roles
in organizations, the four levels at which behavior is examined in
organizations and will develop a framework for basic business operations

--- Page 819 ---
850  School of Continuing and Professional Studies
CPST 265   Special Topics   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Course titles and content will vary from term to term. Permission is
required to enroll.
CPST 273   Building and Leading an Effective Workforce   (3 Credit Hours)   
Restricted to students in the School of Continuing & Professional
Studies. Coordinating operational aspects, overseeing employee
functions, and directing marketing efforts are components within this
survey of leadership skills. Course content to include: Hiring effectively,
Developing talent, Supervising the workforce, Maximizing resources
Deﬁne and implement the various stages of the hiring process. Identify
leadership styles and attributes relevant to small group effectiveness.
Coordinate systems and resources in a broad-based organization.
CPST 275   Successful Small Business Ventures   (3 Credit Hours)   
Restricted to students in the School of Continuing & Professional
Studies. Business development through case studies and best practices
in successful small businesses, incorporating risk assessment and
management. Dynamic roles and challenges of small businesses in
today's competitive global marketplace. Survey of ﬁnancial relationships
in small business development. Identify and discuss the role of small
business in U.S. economic development. Analyze components of
successful small business development and management. Discuss the
impact and changing potentials of small business at the local and the
global level.
CPST 277   Writing the Business Proposal   (3 Credit Hours)   
Restricted to students in the School of Continuing & Professional
Studies. Students will develop their own business proposal, incorporating
their vision as the proposal's foundation. The proposal will include
business description, product or service, organization, market analysis,
marketing strategies, ﬁnancial plan and projections. Course content
includes: - Technical Writing - Small Business Research Streams and
Techniques - Integration of Small Business functions in proposal design -
Presentation (graphic and oral) Techniques
Outcomes:
Develop a viable start-up plan for a desired small business; Create a
document that reflects the needed components within the business
proposal; Present a comprehensive business proposal with real-life
application
CPST 279   Tactical Communications for Small Businesses   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Restricted to students in the School of Continuing & Professional
Studies. Students focus on emerging contemporary communications
formats as they build upon marketing knowledge and communication
skills. Networking skills, promotional writing, and sales strategies are
integrated into written and oral constructs. Course content to include:
- Strategic marketing - Networking best practices and formats - Social
media applications - Presentation skills Implement best practices in
strategic communications relevant to small business and organizational
promotion and sustainability. Develop networking and social media
skills in promoting product and services within appropriate industry and
marketplace.
CPST 290   World Geography   (3 Credit Hours)   
Restricted to current SCPS BA students. This course introduces the four
main themes of the study of geography: physical, cultural, economic,
and historical. Using two basic approaches for the discipline: regional
and spatial, this course studies not only geographic locations, but also
provides an overview of modern globalization and the human impact on
the geographical world.
Outcomes:
Geographical knowledge of different continents, awareness of social-
political trends globallyCPST 291   Dynamic Programming Languages   (3 Credit Hours)   
Restricted to students in the School of Continuing & Professional
Studies. Introduction to programming in dynamically typed languages,
sometimes known as scripting languages. The primary language
example will be Python; the course will cover Python data types, control
structures, function deﬁnitions, objects and lambda expressions. A
second language may be Ruby, PHP , Scheme or a similar language. The
course will also briefly address how Javascript ﬁts into the category of
dynamic languages. - Ability to create a dynamic web page using Python
or some other language
Outcomes:
Ability to write short programs in Python, using loops, lists and
dictionaries; Ability to create graphical effects using Python; Familiarity
with the software-development process, and how software can be
organized using classes and functions; Familiarity with the advantages
and disadvantages of dynamic languages, versus static typing; Ability to
compare Python to some other dynamic language, such as Ruby or PHP
CPST 295   The Internship Experience   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CPST 200 and CPST 201 (minimum grade of C+);
Enrollment is restricted to SCPS degree seeking students; Minimum 2.5
GPA is required   
This course provides an opportunity to broaden work and experiential
base through immersion within a selected organization. Students spend
approximately 8 hours a week interning with their chosen company,
institution, nonproﬁt, small business or other professional setting.
Optional to extend the internship a second term.
Outcomes:
To gain real-world professional experience within a targeted work
environment; To apply skills and knowledge within context of selected
environment; To develop networking opportunities within new
professional workplace
CPST 310   Accounting Principles and Application   (3 Credit Hours)   
CPST courses are restricted to students in the School of Continuing and
Professional Studies. This course introduces major concepts in the areas
of ﬁnancial and managerial accounting and develops understanding
of accounting process and principles. Students will gain a deeper
understanding of ﬁnancial statements, accounting mechanics, accrual
accounting, ﬁnancial planning, variance analysis, internal controls and
ﬁnancial and ﬁnancial analysis.
Course equivalencies:  ACCT201/201H/CPST310/ACACT201   
Outcomes:
Students will gain a deeper understanding of ﬁnancial statements,
accounting mechanics, accrual accounting, ﬁnancial planning, variance
analysis, internal controls and ﬁnancial and ﬁnancial analysis; The
students will complete a ﬁnal course project that demonstrates their
ability to manage the ﬁnancial data of a ﬁctional organization

--- Page 820 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 851
CPST 314   Problem Solving and Decision Making in Leadership   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CPST 210; Restricted to Leadership majors only   
Problem solving and decision making call on critical thinking skills. Using
decision making formats, whether in teams or individually, provides a
roadmap to strategic, ethical, and well-analyzed decisions, in both usual
and crisis situations. Through a systematic approach which involves
root- cause analysis, creative thinking and risk analysis, problems are
delineated, information is gathered, ethical ramiﬁcations are analyzed,
alternative actions are evaluated, and follow-through is planned. At the
end of this course, the student will be able to 1. Apply techniques of logic
and problem analysis to organizational situations. 2. Assemble tools
used to identify and select the best decisions among alternatives. 3.
Review standards of ethics and quality control for decision-making. 4.
Develop implementation techniques and methods of follow-through.
CPST 315   Professional Technical Writing   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCWR 110; Restricted to students in the School of
Continuing and Professional Studies   
Technical Writing prepares students to design effective technical
documents for both written and digital media, with particular emphasis
upon technical memos, problem-solving and decision-making reports, and
organizational, product-support, and technical-information webs.
Outcomes:
Students able to write standard prose with appropriate citations, use a
range of current online platforms and technology
CPST 320   Program Evaluation   (3 Credit Hours)   
Enrollment is restricted to students in the School of Continuing
and Professional Studies. Conceptual frameworks and methods
related to program evaluation will be covered including process,
developmental, outcome, and impact evaluation. Students will be
exposed to best practices to measure and document change on the
individual, organizational, and macro level including the use of logic
models. Quantitative, qualitative, and mixed methods design will be
presented. Students will be exposed to analytical tools to interpret
qualitative and quantitative data. The use of Big Data will be explored
including the implications for behavioral change. Ethical issues in real
world evaluation will be addressed. Course Objectives 1. Describe the
main conceptual frameworks used in program evaluation including
process(formative), developmental, outcome and impact. 2. Compare and
contrast quantitative, qualitative, and mixed methods design for program
evaluation. 3. Evaluate best practices in relation to the measurement
and documentation of change (individual, organizational, and macro-
level). 4. Develop process and outcome objectives and logic models. 5.
Interpret data including Big Data to make judgements about the efﬁcacy
of program activities and intervention. 6. Describe ethical dilemmas with
real world research.CPST 322   Strategic Communication Tools for Applied Psych   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Communication tools commonly employed in the behavioral sciences will
be covered: interview development and implementation; best practices
for conflict management, negotiation, consultation and persuasion;
group facilitation best practices; change facilitation communication
techniques including motivational interviewing; the impact of computer
mediated communication on interpersonal dynamics; and cultural norms
and interpersonal communication. Students interested in counseling
and other helping professions, Human Resources, organizational
development and the persuasion sciences will beneﬁt from these tools.
Enrollment is restricted to students in the School of Continuing and
Professional Studies. Course Objectives 1. Identify best practices for
core communication tools used in applied psychology (and behavioral
sciences). 2. Develop skills in interview development and implementation,
group facilitation, and motivational interviewing. 3. Evaluate techniques
for conflict management, negotiation, consultation and persuasion.
4. Critique the impact of computer mediated communication of
interpersonal dynamics. 5. Describe culturally agile communication
techniques.
CPST 324   Organizing and Planning Techniques for Leaders   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CPST 210; Restricted to Leadership majors only   
This course provides the framework for setting and maintaining priorities
and setting efﬁciencies throughout the organization, balancing priorities
and time, and establishing team and individual roles. Integration of
ethical practices is reviewed within the processes of organizing and
planning high performance functions. At the end of this course, the
student will be able to 1. Identify best practices for large and small group
project organizing and planning. 2. Develop techniques for prioritizing
competing priorities and individual work responsibilities. 3. Establish
methods for building tactical and operational plans. 4. Differentiate team
roles and individual roles and required organizational structures.
CPST 325   Data Processing, Analysis, and Visualization   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  STAT 103; CPST 291 with C- or better; Restricted to
students enrolled in the School of Continuing and Professional Studies   
This course studies the concepts, methods, and tools required to infer
meaningful information and generate useful visualizations from large
data sets. Visualize and analyze structured data using appropriate
statistical data mining and visualization tools. Analyze distributed
computing frameworks for processing large data sets.
Outcomes:
Implement scripting to convert raw data to structured data
CPST 334   Relationship Building for Organizational Leaders   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CPST 210; Restricted to Leadership majors only   
Relationship building calls on the critical skill set of emotional
intelligence. This course develops the framework for productive leader-
follower relationships. Reflecting on intra-personal leadership skill and
building on inter-personal leadership capabilities is of primary focus.
Personal assessment and active assignments provide opportunity to
develop the important ability to perceive needs of followers in order to
ethically motivate towards accomplishment of organizational goals. At
the end of this course, the student will be able to 1. Identify and apply
skills of emotional intelligence. 2. Develop best practices for building
trust and motivation within teams. 3. Recognize the importance of
internal as well as external networking. 4. Differentiate between formal
and informal communication approaches.

--- Page 821 ---
852  School of Continuing and Professional Studies
CPST 335   Law and Regulations for Organizational Leaders   (3 Credit
Hours)   
The role of the organization (for proﬁt, non-proﬁt and governmental) from
the dual perspective of private and public law. Includes foundations of
law and judicial process; contracts, torts, and property law; intellectual
property rights; legal, securities and employment regulations; ethical
considerations and policy issues.
Outcomes:
-Differentiate ethics and law/private and public law -Discuss
Constitutional Law and government's role to regulate business -Apply
basic legal principles to the private market -Explain legal principles of
contracts
CPST 340   Marketing Concepts and Strategies   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CPST 250; Restricted to SCPS   
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the fundamental
principles of marketing identifying organizational goals, marketing
objectives, and variables that affect marketing. Students will examine the
roles of advertising, public relations, and sales; integrated and strategic
marketing within an organization.
Course equivalencies:  MARK201/201H/301/CPST340   
Outcomes:
Students will develop a comprehensive marketing plan analyzing a real
marketing problem, determining strategies, developing sample materials
and devising metrics to evaluate success for an organization
CPST 341   User Experience Design to Drive Business   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CPST 249 with C- or better   
In this course students will learn how to connect and align business
objectives with UX Design goals. Students will learn how to bring high-
level planning into concrete actionable steps. Students learn Strategy for
continuously Developing Brand and Identity through Design. Students
will be able to: Understand how effective UX is a strategic advantage for
business; Connect and align business objectives with UX Design goals;
Apply Design Thinking to create good UX.
CPST 342   Introduction to Web Application Development   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course studies the concepts, methods, and tools used in the
analysis, design, implementation, testing, and deployment of typical
multi-tier web applications. Speciﬁc topics include presentations,
business, and data access layers, as well as integration with database
systems. An introduction to webpage development using JavaScript,
jQuery and associated client-side tools.
Course equivalencies:  X- DIGH403/CPST342/COMP342   
Outcomes:
Experience with commonly used web application development
frameworks; Familiarity with database integration and deployment
environments; Create webpages using JavaScript and related tools and
protocols, and interface a webpage with a databaseCPST 343   Software Development for Mobile Devices   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 170 with C- or better; Restricted to students enrolled
in the School of Continuing and Professional Studies   
This course introduces software development for the Android
environment, using the App Inventor framework. The course also
introduces the basics of user-interface design and mobile architecture.
Development work may be done on either an Android device or on an
Android emulator running on a Windows/Mac/Linux laptop.
Outcomes:
Be able to develop simple Android applications using the App Inventor
framework; Be able to explain the basics of mobile-application
architecture and design; Be familiar with the basics of user-interface
design; Understand the role of mobile-device sensors, such as the
touchscreen, the accelerometer and GPS; Understand the use of Wi-Fi
versus mobile wireless, and the use of the cloud in mobile applications;
Be able to work with developers to create applications
CPST 344   Influence and Leadership   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CPST 210; Restricted to Leadership majors only   
Influence allows leaders to motivate follower movement towards
organizational goals. This course establishes methods for leveraging
expertise, communicating skillfully, and functioning with integrity. It
integrates general management skills with the motivation to assume
responsibility over others and create a positive and ethical organizational
climate. At the end of this course, the student will be able to 1.
Differentiate between the roles of leaders and managers, and various
sources of power. 2. Identify ethical influencing principles that guide
teams toward accomplishment of goals. 3. Develop a plan for leadership
identity and ethical application of personal influence. 4. Reco gnize best
practices for influencing others in situations of crisis.
CPST 345   Introduction to IT: Networking, Cloud & Security   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMP 170 with C- or better; Restricted to students enrolled
in the School of Continuing and Professional Studies   
This course covers the fundamentals of IT systems, networking, and
security. The course will cover fundamental computer networking
concepts and principles, including the basics of the TCP/IP model and
packet-based networking. Other topics include an overview of Wireless
Networking, Cloud Computing, and an introduction to Cybersecurity.
Course equivalencies:  CPST 345 / ITLS 445   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to: Describe how the Internet works; Make
connections between devices Assess how data is transferred end to
end; Perform basic Cloud Computing implementation and deployment;
Describe essential features of Mobile Computing; and, identify and
assess Cybersecurity threats and describe solutions to those threats
CPST 349   Project Management   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CPST 250; Restricted to students in the School of
Continuing and Professional Studies   
The art and science of project management as applied to a variety of
business, commercial, and public management situations. Covers all
phases of the project life-cycle; techniques for planning, scheduling and
control of projects; project organizations; and techniques for building
effective project teams. Student will gain a working knowledge of the
fundamental principles and techniques of effective project management,
and how to apply these principles and techniques in the business
environment.

--- Page 822 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 853
CPST 350   Human Resources Principles & Practices   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CPST 250; Students must be enrolled in the School of
Continuing and Professional Studies   
Students will gain understanding human of resource management
functions including the legal environment, equal employment
opportunities requirements; job design and analysis; recruiting,
orientation and training; performance appraisal; compensation systems;
labor relations; collective bargaining and grievance processes; and health
and safety.
Course equivalencies:  MGMT201/201H/MGMT 301/CPST 350   
Outcomes:
Students will make a presentation about human resource components
for an organization including job description, recruiting plan, hiring
procedures, performance evaluation and collective bargaining
considerations
CPST 354   Communications for Organizational Leaders   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CPST 210; Restricted to Leadership majors only   
Communicating clearly and persuasively is at the core of this topic.
Individuals can leverage their unique leadership style to effectively
communicate and inspire action. By developing practices for formal as
well as informal communication, students learn to manage frequency,
volume and medium chosen in order to construct messages that reach
various audiences. Practicing clear and effective oral communication is
established through multiple exercises in this course. At the end of this
course, the student will be able to 1. Identify leadership style and use for
connecting in verbal presentations. 2. Develop the ability to communicate
simply and effectively through written communication. 3. Evaluate
communication forms for inspiration and motivation. 4. Recognize the
importance of ethical communication and technology.
CPST 355   Introduction to Global Trade Compliance   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CPST 243 or ECON 201, CPST 245 or ECON 202, STAT 103
or ISOM 241, CPST 310 or ACCT 201; Restricted to students in the School
of Continuing & Professional Studies   
Understanding the principles of global trade compliance helps personnel
in compliance and other key functional areas (e.g., accounting, logistics,
talent, purchasing, R&D) understand the opportunities and risks
associated with international trade. Topics include key principles of
import and export compliance, the government's role in the regulatory
framework, and common risk areas that impact business activities.
At the end of the course, the student will be able to 1. Identify the
basic regulatory framework for import compliance (e.g., customs
valuation, tariff classiﬁcation and country of origin) 2. Identify the basic
regulatory framework for export compliance 3. Explain and understand
the role of voluntary cargo security programs (e.g., Customs-Trade
Partnership Against Terrorism) 4. Identify and analyze actual import/
export compliance risk areas (e.g., free trade agreements and associated
eligibility issues) 5. Create and implement a team project that identiﬁes
a compliance risk area and presents a cross-functional response to the
regulatory risk.CPST 356   Environmental Economics & Resource Management   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CPST 243 or ECON 201, CPST 245 or ECON 202, STAT 103
or ISOM 241, CPST 310 or ACCT 201; Restricted to students in the School
of Continuing & Professional Studies   
The purpose of this course is to help students understand the role of
economics in analyzing natural resource management and the role of
economics in the development of environmental policy. An understanding
economic models of efﬁciency is integral to any discussion of i nnovative
ways to approach our natural resource constraints in the 21st century
and beyond. The focus of the course will be on energy, energy efﬁciency
and renewable energy sources, and the cost of pollution and climate
change. The renewed interest in innovative technologies that reduce
emissions, waste and improve bottom lines provides a new impetus for
investment in renewables and new technologies. The second part of
the course will be devoted to highlighting opportunities for companies,
citizens and entrepreneurs to create jobs and improve communities. By
the end of the course, it is hoped that students will ﬁnd that as citizens,
entrepreneurs or corporate executives, they can do well ﬁnancially by
doing good environmentally. By the end of the course, the student will
be able to 1. Apply supply and demand models to natural resource
management 2. Evaluate the role of economics in the development of
environmental policy 3. Identify methods used in the economic valuation
of the environment 4. Discuss the transition from depletable to renewable
energy resources 5. Connect sustainable environmental practices with
economic growth
CPST 360   Development and Change in Organizations   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CPST 250   
Students will investigate the theory and practice of organizational
development, examine assumptions, strategies, models, intervention
techniques for organizational development and change processes.
Students will also study the formation of collaborative relationships,
overcoming resistance, gaining commitment and realigning culture.
Outcomes:
Students will provide case studies that integrate data; design
interventions, change strategies and an evaluation for diagnosing
organizations, groups and jobs
CPST 364   Intra-personal Leadership   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CPST 210; Restricted to Leadership majors only   
Intra-personal leadership principles highlight the drive, energy and
motivation one has toward leading effectively. Exploring what it means
to bring positive organizational energy to the leadership role in a way
that ethically supports organizational mission is at the foundation of this
course. Effectively leading through complexity begins at the individual
level and requires the ability to develop, motivate, and support the
accomplishment of others. At the end of this course, the student will be
able to 1. Examine personal goals for growth, challenge, achievement,
and success 2. Develop requirements for fulﬁlling relationships
and balancing work and life. 3. Establish personal parameters and
professional practices for ethical leadership. 4. Develop methods for
supporting goals and accomplishments of individuals and teams.
CPST 365   Advanced Special Topics   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Course titles and content vary. Variable (1-3) credit hours. Permission
required to enroll. Restricted to students in the School of Continuing &
Professional Studies. SCPS permission required to enroll.

--- Page 823 ---
854  School of Continuing and Professional Studies
CPST 370   Leadership Theories and Applications   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CPST 250   
Students will study leadership theory, concepts and the practical
application of leadership at all levels. Students will analyze historical
approaches to leadership and focus on influential contemporary
leadership perspectives such as servant leadership, situational
leadership, transformational leadership, and principle-centered
leadership.
Outcomes:
Students will complete a leadership development plan and apply
leadership theories to workplace situations through reflection, real-life
examples, and case studies
CPST 371   Organizational Finance   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CPST 243 or ECON 201, CPST 245 or ECON 202, STAT 103
or ISOM 241, CPST 310 or ACCT 201; Restricted to students in the School
of Continuing & Professional Studies   
Management involves the allocation and distribution of resources as well
as an ongoing knowledge of the ﬁnancial impact of the local, regional
and national economies. This course offers an overview of the inter-
relations of money and markets, investment, and ﬁnancial management.
It will focus on ﬁnancial analysis, design and reporting from a managerial
perspective, as well as organizational issues which have a ﬁnancial
impact on the entity. It will concentrate on organizational ﬁnance topics
with an emphasis on ﬁnancial analysis, ﬁxed income securities, stocks,
projects and their valuations, corporate valuation and governance and
cash distribution.
Course equivalencies:  FINC332/FINC 334/CPST271   
Outcomes:
At the end of this course, the student will be able to 1) Read, develop and
write ﬁnancial analyses for managerial roles; 2) Develop concrete skills in
regard to ﬁscal leadership; 3) Analyze cash flow and ﬁnancial statements;
4) Describe the time value of money, bonds, and bond valuation regarding
changes in interest rates; 5) Evaluate risk and return, valuation of stocks
and corporations, and ﬁnancial options in corporate ﬁnance; 6) Apply the
cost of capital and cash flows to capital budgeting; 7) Describe how local,
regional and national economies impact the success of the allocation of
ﬁnancial resourcesCPST 372   Banking & Financial Intermediaries   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CPST 243 or ECON 201, CPST 245 or ECON 202, STAT 103
or ISOM 241, CPST 310 or ACCT 201; Restricted to students in the School
of Continuing & Professional Studies   
This course is designed to provide the student with a knowledge of
banking and ﬁnancial intermediaries. Concepts covered in the course will
include the following: an overview of ﬁnancial markets and interest rates;
the functions and structure of the Federal Reserve System; the role of the
Federal Reserve system in setting monetary policy; commercial banking
operations and regulations; non-bank ﬁnancial intermediaries, including
thrift and ﬁnance companies; the role of insurance and pension fund
operations. As a result of taking this course, students will understand
the role that ﬁnancial institutions play in developing and implementing
monetary policies, as well as the inter-relationships between ﬁnancial
institutions and capital markets. At the end of this course, the student
will be able to 1. Describe the types of ﬁnancial markets, as well as the
role played by the various institutions comprising those markets. 2.
Recognize the market and institutional forces that contribute to the
determination of short and long -term interest rates. 3. Explain the
function and structure of the Federal Reserve system, as well as the role
played by the Federal Reserve in determining monetary policy. 4. Analyze
the nature and function of commercial banking including the sources and
uses of funds by banking operations, the regulatory environment in which
commercial banks operate, and the management of banking assets to
achieve desired management strategies. 5. Discuss the interrelationships
among commercial banks and other ﬁnancial intermediaries. 6. Identify
various non-bank ﬁnancial intermediaries, including thrifts, credit
unions, ﬁnance companies and mutual funds and explain how these
institutions interact with commercial banking operations, as well as with
end consumers. 7. Examine the role that pension and insurance funds
play in providing liquidity and security to consumers and businesses. 8.
Discuss interrelationships among pension and insurance funds and other
ﬁnancial intermediaries
CPST 373   Capital Markets   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CPST 243 or ECON 201, CPST 245 or ECON 202, STAT 103
or ISOM 241, CPST 310 or ACCT 201,CPST 372 Banking and Financial
Intermediaries; Restricted to students in the School of Continuing &
Professional Studies   
This course is designed to provide the student with a knowledge of
capital markets, banking, and measures of money supply. The course
will include an overview of ﬁnancial markets and interest rates; the
functions and structure of the Federal Reserve System; the role of debt
securities markets; the role played by equity securities markets; the
nature and function of derivative markets. As a result of taking this
course, students will understand the role played by capital markets, the
Federal Reserve system, debt, equity and derivative markets as well as
the inter-relationships between ﬁnancial institutions and capital markets.
Outcomes:
At the end of this course, the student will be able to 1) Analyze the
nature and function of the market for debt instruments, as well as the
various types of debt instruments currently in use, including Treasury
bills, commercial paper, CDs, repurchase agreements, federal funds,
mortgages and banker's acceptances; 2) Assess the valuation of debt
securities, pricing, and yields; 3) Describe the market for equity securities
and the types of equity securities available for investment; stock market
transactions, trading, and securities regulations; 4) Employ valuation
methods to evaluate equity securities and performance measures related
to them; 5) Explain the role that derivatives play in attempting to mitigate
risk, as well as the speculative nature of some derivative products and
the role of regulatory agencies in attempting to reduce speculative
transactions

--- Page 824 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 855
CPST 377   Data in Management Decision-Making   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CPST 250, STAT 103   
Data, technology, and analytics capabilities have a direct impact on
decision making. The integration of Financial/Enterprise Resource
Planning (ERP) Systems and business analytics drives the ability to
turn data into insights and action. This course will prepare students to
understand, manage and visualize data, while also focusing on effective
ways to communicate for decision-making. The course will introduce ERP
systems and technology and the use of analytical tools in organizational
decision-making.
Outcomes:
Utilize common enterprise systems and analytical tools in decision-
making; Evaluate the use of databases in data management and data
wrangling; Develop the ability to apply analytical techniques to data
through mining; Practice important data visualization techniques and
summary measures; Write to communicate insights gained from data
analysis
CPST 380   Leadership, Culture and Ethics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CPST 250   
Students examine organizational ethics, values, strategy, culture,
leadership and coaching. Students self-assess and reﬁne their own
concept of leadership and decision-making in the context of attitudes,
environments, cultures, and issues faced by leaders in organizations.
Outcomes:
Students will analyze descriptive and normative models of ethical
decision making in business, leadership strengths and management style
using real life situations, self-assessment and cases studies
CPST 381   Cybersecurity Governance   (3 Credit Hours)   
Effective Cybersecurity Leadership requires that there is a cogent
Governance structure. Students in this course will learn how to manage
Cybersecurity processes while meeting the needs of the Enterprise.
Students will learn how to establish a Governance program, Cybersecurity
management frameworks, how to develop and implement a Cybersecurity
strategy. Students will be able to: Explain the strategic importance of
effective, interdisciplinary, and multifunctional enterprise information
security governance and information security management program and
its execution.
CPST 382   Cybersecurity Incident Response Management   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Students in this course learn key aspects of Cybersecurity Incident
Response Management (CIRM). Students in this course will learn
how to plan for, respond to, investigate, and report on Cybersecurity
Incidents. Students in this course will learn from case studies of past
cyber incidents. Skills developed include the developing of an Incident
Response Plan; ethical, best practices on handling communications/
disclosures after an incident; incident investigation techniques
(forensics); interfacing with law enforcement; and post-incident recovery.
CPST 383   Cloud Security Strategy and Architecture   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course leverages cloud computing security guidelines set forth by
the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), National Institute
of Standards and Technology (NIST), European Union Agency for Network
and Information Security (ENISA), and Cloud Security Alliance (CSA)
to develop a Strategic perspective for the Cybersecurity practitioner.
Skills developed include knowing best practices and standards; the
ability to design and implement a cloud security architecture; and
carefully working with 3rd party cloud infrastructure providers and other
stakeholders.CPST 390   Organizational Theory and Practice   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CPST 380   
This course extends knowledge of organizations by examining
organizational behavior at the macro-level. Students will gain a deeper
understanding of organizational theory and research including historical
and modern era approaches. Students will also analyze organizational
behavior and settings including an in-depth case study of a single
company.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to explain and apply concepts within the main areas
of organizational structure, culture, communication and process
CPST 395   Advanced Special Topics in Management   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Permission required to enroll.
CPST 397   Capstone   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course must be taken by SCPS students during the last semester
prior to graduation. Students will collaborate with a community
organization of their choosing to design and execute a capstone project
that fulﬁlls the University Engaged Learning requirement. This includes
completing at least 20 hours of civic engagement, all necessary Center
for Engaged Learning, Teaching, and Scholarship (CELTS) documentation,
and a capstone project report. Grounded in Ignatian pedagogy, the
course emphasizes reflection, discernment, and action, guiding students
through individual and group exercises to deepen their learning and reﬁne
their project. By integrating knowledge from their SCPS coursework,
students will develop their capstone projects while preparing for life after
graduation as Civic-Minded Professionals.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Design and execute a capstone project with a community partner
organization of their choosing; Complete a minimum of 20 hours of civic
engagement with a community partner to satisfy the University Engaged
Learning requirement; Present a capstone project report
CPST 398   Professional Studies Internship Seminar   (2 Credit Hours)   
To enroll students must complete the internship forms through the
Center for Experiential Learning. The Internship Seminar is a w ay to earn
academic credit for an internship completed while ﬁnishing one of the
SCPS BA programs. Students taking CPST 398 must take CPST 399 the
following session to get complete credit for the internship.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  CPST398/UNIV390   
Outcomes:
Applied experience in a professional setting
CPST 399   Professional Studies Internship Seminar II   (2 Credit Hours)   
To enroll students must complete the internship forms through the
Center for Experiential Learning. The Internship Seminar is a w ay to earn
academic credit for an internship completed while ﬁnishing one of the
SCPS BA programs. Students taking CPST 399 must ﬁrst take CPST 398
the previous session to get complete credit for the internship.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Applied experience in a professional setting

--- Page 825 ---
856  School of Continuing and Professional Studies
Institute of Paralegal Studies (PLST)
PLST 331   Introduction to Paralegal Studies   (2 Credit Hours)   
Required of all students in their ﬁrst session of study. An introduction
to the function and sources of American law (including the U.S.
Constitution), the American legal system, the civil litigation process,
and legal practice, focusing on the role of the paralegal. Trends in the
paralegal ﬁeld, including regulation and career issues.
Outcomes:
Students will recognize typical paralegal responsibilities in various
areas of legal practice and be aware of recent developments in the ﬁeld,
especially regulatory proposals affecting paralegals
PLST 332   Legal Research and Writing I   (2 Credit Hours)   
Required of all students. An introduction to the fundamentals of legal
research, focusing on locating, analyzing and updating case law (court
opinions). Practice in researching case law in hard copy and online, and in
writing case briefs.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to use various reference books and online services
(LEXIS and WESTLAW) to locate, analyze, and update case law, and will
be able to write case briefs
PLST 333   Legal Research and Writing II   (2 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PLST 332   
Required of all students. Further instruction in legal research skills,
focusing on locating, analyzing and updating statutory and administrative
law. Practice in researching statutory and administrative law in hard copy
and online. Drafting routine legal correspondence.
PLST 334   Legal Analysis: Practical Applications   (2 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PLST 332 and PLST 333   
This writing intensive course will provide extensive practice analyzing
factual scenarios, summarizing and applying legal authority and
developing written legal arguments. Drafts and rewrites are required.
Outcomes:
To demonstrate comprehension of legal texts of varying levels of
complexity; To apply legal rules to factual situations to predict legal
outcomes; To use typical legal analytical tools to develop solutions to
legal issues; To write clear explanations of the process of analysis used
to resolve legal issues
PLST 335   Legal Ethics   (2 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PLST 331   
Required of all students. Ethical considerations in the practice of law that
paralegals are likely to encounter, especially the unauthorized practice
of law, client conﬁdentiality and conflicts of interest. Review of ethical
codes for attorneys and paralegals.
PLST 336   Corporate Topics for Litigation Paralegals   (2 Credit Hours)   
Required for the Litigation Practice Certiﬁcate. An introduction to the
basic principles of agency law, contract law, and the forms of business
organizations: sole proprietorships, partnerships (general, registered
limited liability and limited), limited liability companies, and corporations.
PLST 339   Secured Transactions and Bankruptcy   (2 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PLST 336 or PLST 362; Required for the Corporate Practice
Certiﬁcate (Water Tower Campus)   
An introduction to transactions under Uniform Commercial Code Article 9
(Secured Transactions) and federal bankruptcy law, primarily as it applies
to businesses.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to draft UCC forms to perfect security interests as
well as bankruptcy formsPLST 340   Civil Litigation I   (2 Credit Hours)   
Required for the Litigation Practice Certiﬁcate. An introduction to
the civil litigation process in state (Illinois) and federal courts, and
proceedings in administrative agencies generally, focusing on the initial
phases. Instruction in client interviews and pre-litigation investigations,
evidentiary issues, and practice in drafting pleadings initiating lawsuits
and proceedings through pre-trial motion practice.
Outcomes:
Students will understand the structure and basic operations of these
courts, and will be familiar with the rules of procedure governing civil
litigation proceedings
PLST 341   Civil Litigation II   (2 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PLST 340   
Required for the Litigation Practice Certiﬁcate. Further instruction in the
litigation process, focusing on the discovery, trial, and post-trial stages.
Topics include interrogatories, depositions, document production and
inspection requests, other discovery tools, settlement negotiations,
organization of case ﬁles, document control systems, trial preparation,
trial procedure, and post-trial proceedings. Overview of alternative dispute
resolution.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to conduct client interviews and pre-litigation
investigations, and to draft the pleadings initiating lawsuits and
proceeding through pre-trial motion practice
PLST 342   Litigation Technology & eDiscovery   (2 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PLST 340 and PLST 341; Previous completion of PLST 345
strongly recommended   
Required for the Litigation Practice Certiﬁcate. Hands-on instruction in
software programs (Relativity) commonly used for litigation support,
including electronic court ﬁling, eDiscovery, case management, document
control and trial presentation.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to assist attorneys in preparing for and conducting
trials
PLST 343   Real Estate Transactions I   (2 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PLST 336 or PLST 362   
An introduction to the concepts of real estate ownership and real estate
sales transactions. Practice in preparing standard documents required
for real estate transactions: purchase/sale agreements, deeds and
other closing documents, title insurance commitments and policies, and
surveys.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to draft documents for basic real estate
transactions and to assist attorneys in conducting real estate closings
PLST 344   Real Estate Transactions II   (2 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PLST 343   
Further instruction in real estate transactions, examining issues that
arise in all real estate transactions and especially the documentation and
closing of these transactions. Commercial real estate leasing.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to prepare documents for these transactions, and to
assist attorneys in conducting commercial real estate closings and other
transactions

--- Page 826 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 857
PLST 345   Law Ofﬁce Computer Applications   (2 Credit Hours)   
Required of all students. Hands-on instruction in software programs
commonly used in law ofﬁces: word processing (templates, redlining,
tables), spreadsheets (ﬁnancial data, charts and graphs), pdf
management (creating and combining pdfs, creating a portfolio,
redacting, adding security) and presentation graphics.
Outcomes:
Students will be proﬁcient in the fundamentals of word processing
(templates, redlining, tables), spreadsheets (ﬁnancial data, charts and
graphs), database management (organizing, sorting, and retrieving
information), and presentation graphics
PLST 346   Advanced Litigation Technology   (2 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PLST 340, PLST 341, PLST 342   
Additional instruction in online resources and software typically used in
litigation support (e.g. Relativity).
Outcomes:
Students will prepared to use typical litigation resources and software at
a basic to intermediate level
PLST 348   Advanced Online Research Skills   (2 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PLST 332   
This course focuses on research strategies for paralegals and speciﬁcally
develops skills in the area of online public database research. Students
practice researching within publically available online resources in a
wide variety of subject areas including court procedure and docketing,
business entities, real property, criminal law, environmental compliance,
etc. Multiple practical assignments as well as one main research
assignment.
Outcomes:
Students will research and write memoranda in support of motions, and
will be familiar with the mechanics of appellate court briefs
PLST 349   Torts   (2 Credit Hours)   
An introduction to civil tort liability, including the intentional torts,
negligence, strict liability, and product liability. Role of the paralegal in
personal injury litigation. Practice in client interviewing techniques. Basic
factual investigation techniques.
Outcomes:
Students will be familiar with the paralegal's role in personal injury
litigation from both the plaintiff's and defendant's viewpoints, including
typical pleadings and other documents
PLST 350   Medical Malpractice   (2 Credit Hours)   
Negligence lawsuits brought against health care organizations and
health care professionals, from both the plaintiff's and defendant's
viewpoints. Illinois law and rules of procedure for medical malpractice
cases. Practical skills for locating and organizing medical information.
Outcomes:
The student will be familiar with Illinois law and rules of procedure
governing medical malpractice lawsuits and will be able to draft
a malpractice complaint as well as locate and organize medical
information
PLST 351   Intellectual Property: Patents and Trade Secrets   (2 Credit
Hours)   
An introduction to the terminology, basic principles and documentation
requirements of patent protection. Subject matter of patents, the concept
of patentability, the patent application process and patent infringement
litigation. Trade secret misappropriation.
Outcomes:
Students will be familiar with the concept of patentability, the patent
application process (including preparation of basic forms and
documents), and patent infringement litigationPLST 352   Intellectual Property: Trademarks and Copyrights   (2 Credit
Hours)   
An introduction to the terminology, basic principles and documentation
requirements of trademark and copyright protection. Registration
procedures and infringement disputes.
Outcomes:
Students will be familiar with registration procedures (including
preparation of basic forms and documents) and infringement disputes
PLST 353   Securities Regulation   (2 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PLST 336 or PLST 362   
Federal and state regulation of securities transactions. The stock market
and the roles of brokers, specialists and underwriters. Requirements
for public offerings of stock, notably the registration statement and
prospectus, as well as the anti-fraud provisions.
Outcomes:
Students will be familiar with the requirements for public offerings of
stock, notably the registration statement and prospectus, and will be able
to complete basic forms required under these laws
PLST 355   Estates, Trusts & Wills   (2 Credit Hours)   
An introduction to basic principles of estate and trust administration.
Practical aspects of administration of estates and trusts for the
paralegal. Probate proceedings in Illinois, including the preparation of
probate court pleadings, inventories, collection and valuation of assets,
distribution of assets to beneﬁciaries, and accountings. Overview of tax
considerations.
Outcomes:
Students will be familiar with wills and will be able to prepare the
documents required to administer estates in Illinois
PLST 357   Family Law   (2 Credit Hours)   
An introduction to the laws governing family relationships, speciﬁcally
the Illinois Marriage and Dissolution of Marriage Act and related statutes.
Factual investigation, preparation of pleadings and other documents,
court procedures, settlement agreements, and post-decree modiﬁcations.
Brief overview of adoption and paternity proceedings.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to prepare pleadings, notices, settlement
agreements, and other documents, and to assist the attorney in domestic
relations court proceedings
PLST 358   Criminal Law and Litigation   (2 Credit Hours)   
An introduction to the purpose and scope of substantive criminal law,
considering various crimes against persons and property, criminal liability
and punishment, and defenses to crimes. Procedural topics, including
court forms and pleadings commonly used in the Illinois criminal trial
process.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to prepare court forms and pleadings commonly
used in the criminal trial process, and to assist attorneys preparing for
trial
PLST 359   Environmental Law   (2 Credit Hours)   
An introduction to federal environmental statutes regulating water
quality, waste management and remediation of hazardous substances
(Superfund). Issues leading to enforcement proceedings. Research
strategies for this technical area.
Outcomes:
Students will be familiar with permit applications, enforcement
proceedings, and research strategies for this technical area

--- Page 827 ---
858  Applied Psychology (BA)
PLST 360   Employment Law   (2 Credit Hours)   
An overview of the legal relationship between employers and employees,
including the employment-at-will doctrine, employment contracts,
federal and state anti-discrimination laws, and worker's compensation
proceedings. Administrative procedures and trial court actions.
Outcomes:
Students will be familiar with federal and Illinois law regulating
employment status, employment contracts, anti-discrimination claims,
and worker's compensation, and will be able to assist attorneys in
administrative agency proceedings and civil lawsuits
PLST 361   Immigration Law   (2 Credit Hours)   
An overview of U.S. immigration law with emphasis on the paralegal's
role. History of immigration law and current policy considerations.
Preparation of visa applications, admission and removal of immigrants
and non-immigrants, citizenship and naturalization, and humanitarian
relief. Document organization and preparation, working with clients,
litigation assistance, legal research, and ethical dilemmas.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to prepare various visa applications
PLST 362   Business Organizations   (2 Credit Hours)   
Required for Corporate Practice Certiﬁcate (Water Tower Campus and
Cuneo Cohort). This course focuses on the formation and operation of
sole proprietorships, partnerships (general, limited, and limited liability),
limited liability companies, and corporations. Preparation of standard
forms and agreements will be emphasized. Due diligence procedures for
mergers and acquisitions and other transactions will be covered.
PLST 363   Contract Administration & Analysis   (2 Credit Hours)   
Required for Corporate Practice Certiﬁcate (Water Tower Campus and
Cuneo Cohort). This course focuses on both common-law and Uniform
Commercial Code (UCC) Article 2 contracts. The elements of a valid
contract will be studied, as well as standard contractual provisions and
basic principles of contract interpretation. Students will work with several
sample contracts: a conﬁdentiality/nondisclosure agreement, a licensing
agreement, and a general trade agreement.
PLST 364   Topics in Corporate Practice   (2 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PLST 362 Business Organizations   
This course provides an overview of laws relating to business operations,
including secured transactions (Uniform Commercial Code Article 9),
federal bankruptcy law, and employment law. Compliance with various
regulatory requirements will also be covered.
PLST 366   Litigation Topics for Corporate Paralegals   (2 Credit Hours)   
Required for Corporate Practice Certiﬁcate (Water Tower Campus and
Cuneo Cohort). This course introduces the civil litigation process in
state (Illinois) and federal courts, from the initial phases of pre-litigation
investigations and pleadings through the discovery, trial, and post-trial
phases. Technological innovations affecting civil litigation, such as
electronic court ﬁling and e-discovery procedures, will be given special
emphasis.
PLST 368   Corporate Compliance Topics   (2 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PLST 362 or PLST 336   
This course provides an overview of various regulatory provisions
applicable to the ﬁnancial services industry, including the Anti-Money
Laundering (AML) and Business Continuity Plans (BCP) rules, the  Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act, and insider trading prohibitions. Compliance with
the requirements of these laws will be the focus of the course.
Outcomes:
Students will learn practices and procedures to monitor and document
compliance with these lawsPLST 369   Advanced Topics in American Law   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CPST 200; Enrollment is limited to students in the BA in
PLST degree program   
This course will build on students' knowledge of the American legal
system, examining the role of law in 21st century American society. The
course will focus on the interpretation of selected portions of the U.S.
Constitution and their effect on American life.
Outcomes:
Students will learn how the US Constitution governs the American legal
system and protects individual rights
PLST 370   Advanced Legal Analysis & Writing I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  UCWR 110; Enrollment is limited to students in the BA in
PLST degree program   
This course will provide students with extensive practice in reading
and summarizing case law, with particular attention to the rationale
for court decisions and the use of precedent, as well as statutory and
administrative law. This course will focus on analysis rather than retrieval
of legal reference sources.
Course equivalencies:  PLST334/PLST370   
Outcomes:
Students will learn how to prepare summaries of court decisions,
statutes, and administrative regulations
PLST 371   Advanced Legal Analysis & Writing II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PLST 370; Enrollment is limited to students in the BA in
PLST degree program   
This course will focus on the interaction of case law, statutory law, and
administrative law in resolving legal issues. Students will learn to develop
legal arguments and write a legal memorandum.
Outcomes:
Students will learn how to use court decisions, statutes, and
administrative regulations to develop legal arguments
PLST 395   Applied Paralegal Study   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  Director's permission required; this course is limited to
students in the BA in Paralegal Studies program   
This course will require students to explore a contemporary issue in the
paralegal ﬁeld or the practice of law generally. Students will be expected
to participate in a minimum of two class meetings and several online
activities, concluding with a presentation of their research.
PLST 398   Internship   (2 Credit Hours)   
Consent of Director and completion of 14-16 semester hours of
study. Limited to student's last or second-last term of study. Practical
experience (120 hours on site) for advanced students in applying
paralegal skills within selected law ﬁrms, corporate law departments and
governmental agencies. One mandatory class meeting, online journal,
online discussions, and ﬁnal paper. All internships are unpaid; only one
internship may be completed for credit toward certiﬁcate.
PLST 399   Internship   (3 Credit Hours)   
Consent of Director and completion of 14-16 semester hours of
study. Limited to student's last or second-last term of study. Practical
experience (160 hours on site) for advanced students in applying
paralegal skills within selected law ﬁrms, corporate law departments and
governmental agencies. One mandatory class meeting, online journal,
online discussions, and ﬁnal paper. All internships are unpaid; only one
internship may be completed for credit toward certiﬁcate.
Applied Psychology (BA)
Individual, organizational, and global problems require innovative
solutions based on psychological research concerning what motivates
people to change. Moreover, robotics and increased automation

--- Page 828 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 859
continues heightening demand for employees who are adept at systems
thinking to address the complexity of human behavior.
The BA in Applied Psychology program is a differentiated, high-quality
program tuned to the needs of adult learners. Expert faculty provide
training in the scientiﬁc study of human behavior, emotion, cognition, and
motivation and prepare students for occupations applying psychological
theory and methods to promote creative, evidence-based problem
solving, critical systems thinking, cultural agility, and persuasive
communication.
Related Programs
Major
•Applied Studies (BA)  (p. 859)
Master's
•Applied Social Psychology (MA)  (p. 1651 )
Curriculum
The BA in Applied Psychology comprises 120 credit hours. Courses are
offered in an 8 week session format with online and evening options.
Code Title Hours
Major CoursesPSYC 101General Psychology3
PSYC 304 Statistics 3PSYC 306Research Methods in Psychology3
PSYC 275 Social Psychology 3PSYC 362Industrial/Organizational Psychology3
CPST 322 Strategic Communication Tools for Applied Psych 3CPST 320Program Evaluation3
PSYC 373 Health Psychology 3TracksSelect one of the following Tracks: 12Organizational TrackCPST 250 Foundations of OrganizationsCPST 350Human Resources Principles & PracticesCPST 380 Leadership, Culture and EthicsPSYC 338Psychology of PersonalityCounseling TrackPSYC 273Developmental PsychologyCPSY 323 Theories of Counseling and PsychotherapyCPSY 324Career Counseling and DevelopmentCPSY 332 Multicultural CounselingSCPS CoursesCPST 200 Introduction to Degree Completion 3CPST 201Civic Identity and Development3
CPST 397 Capstone 3Core RequirementsThe number of hours remaining toward Core requirements can vary
due to transfer credit.  1Mission Speciﬁc RequirementsMission speciﬁc requirements can vary from 0 to 15 credit hours
based on your prior credit.General Elective RequirementsStudents may have some general elective coursework to complete
if their transfer credit and remaining required hours (Core, mission
speciﬁc, major, etc.) do not total 120.
1Core Requirements -  Learn More  (p. 1405 )
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The School of Continuing and Professional Studies provides a high-touch
advising model in order to incorporate the professional and educational
outcomes of the student as well as any transfer credit accepted.  In
order to provide students with maximum flexibility in their education and
because everyone’s academic background will vary, advisors will work
directly with students to determine an appropriate sequence of courses
starting at admission into their respective program based on their needs
and expected time to completion.
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Apply scientiﬁc thinking to solve individual, interpersonal,
organizational and social problems in real world case studies and
organizational/community projects.
•Analyze theories in human behavior, cognition, emotion, and
motivation in written assignments and oral presentations.
•Use strategic communication and persuasion skills based in the
behavioral sciences in role plays and real-world applications.
•Interpret statistical and evaluation data to discern meaningful
patterns and assess the impact of interventions in course work and
organizational/community applications.
•Recognize best practices including ethical and pragmatic constraints
of applied research with people in course work and organizational/
community projects.
Applied Studies (BA)
The B.A. in Applied Studies degree provides a strong foundation in
communication and business. The Applied Studies major represents the
best way to make the most of your prior credit in a particular subject and
accelerate your path to graduation. The required certiﬁcate may also
allow each student to focus on a complimentary discipline preparing
them to excel in the professional world. SCPS understands that adult
students often wish to take a wide range of courses to meet their
professional and personal interests, so we have designed this degree to
enhance your current career or establish a new one.
Related Programs
Major
•Applied Mathematics (BS)  (p. 530)
•Applied Psychology (BA)  (p. 858)

--- Page 829 ---
860  Computer Science Certiﬁcate
Master's
•Applied Social Psychology (MA)  (p. 1651 )
Curriculum
The B.A. in Applied Studies comprises 120 credit hours. Courses are
offered in an 8-week session format with online, evening, and Saturday
morning options.
Code Title Hours
Major CoursesCPST 250Foundations of Organizations3
CPST 243 Microeconomics 3
or CPST 245 MacroeconomicsCOMM 175Introduction to Communication3
CPST 310 Accounting Principles and Application 3CPST 247Computer Concepts and Applications3
STAT 103 Fundamentals of Statistics 3CPST 315Professional Technical Writing3
Communication SkillsSelect one of the following:3
COMM 101 Public Speaking & Critical ThinkingCPST 322Strategic Communication Tools for Applied Psych200-level (or higher) Communications courseTheoretical SkillsSelect one of the following: 3CPST 370Leadership Theories and ApplicationsCPST 360 Development and Change in OrganizationsCPST 340Marketing Concepts and StrategiesCPST 320 Program EvaluationRequired Concentration or Certiﬁcate(s)18
SCPS CoursesCPST 200Introduction to Degree Completion3
CPST 201 Civic Identity and Development 3CPST 397Capstone3
Core RequirementsThe number of hours remaining toward Core requirements can vary
due to transfer credit.  1Mission Speciﬁc RequirementsMission speciﬁc requirements can vary from 0 to 15 credit hours
based on your prior credit.General Elective RequirementsStudents may have some general elective coursework to complete
if their transfer credit and remaining required hours (Core, mission
speciﬁc, major, etc.) do not total 120.Total Hours 120
1Core Requirements -  Learn More  (p. 1405 )
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The School of Continuing and Professional Studies provides a high-touch
advising model in order to incorporate the professional and educational
outcomes of the student as well as any transfer credit accepted.  In
order to provide students with maximum flexibility in their education and
because everyone’s academic background will vary, advisors will workdirectly with students to determine an appropriate sequence of courses
starting at admission into their respective program based on their needs
and expected time to completion.
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Apply communication theories to promote change in personal and
professional settings.
•Demonstrate effective business writing in written narratives, memos,
argumentative narratives, and collaborative documents.
•Analyze organizational theory, structure, power dynamics and culture
in persuasive written and oral presentations.
•Describe the basic components of an organization’s control structure
and the role of accounting in an organization, through the analysis of
organizational ﬁnancial statements.
•Develop leadership skills through self-assessment exercises,
reflection activities, and critical thinking assignments.
Computer Science Certiﬁcate
This concise, nine-hour certiﬁcate program prepares you to enter the
computer science ﬁeld. It also positions you to complete a master’s
degree in Information Technology or Software Engineering as well. In this
program, you will: develop a thorough understanding of the principles
of object-orientation, such as abstraction, delegation, inheritance, and
polymorphism; learn basic design patterns; and gain programming
experience in mainstream object-oriented languages such as C++ and
Java.
Related Programs
Major
•Computer Science (BS)  (p. 360)
Certiﬁcate
•Cybersecurity Certiﬁcate  (p. 1905 )
•Cybersecurity Technology Management Certiﬁcate  (p. 861)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Certiﬁcate RequirementsCOMP 170Introduction to Object-Oriented Programming3
COMP 271 Data Structures I 3OptionsSelect a third course from one of the following options: 3Software Engineering OptionStudents who do well in COMP 271 are encouraged to complete
the Software Engineering option and complete:COMP 313Object-Oriented DesignInformation Technology Option

--- Page 830 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 861Completion of a project management course will provide a
good transition for students interested in the MS in Information
Technology (choose one course):CPST 349 Project ManagementCOMP 377IT Project ManagementWeb OptionCPST 342Introduction to Web Application DevelopmentMobile OptionCPST 343Software Development for Mobile DevicesTotal Hours9
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The School of Continuing and Professional Studies provides a high-touch
advising model in order to incorporate the professional and educational
outcomes of the student as well as any transfer credit accepted.  In
order to provide students with maximum flexibility in their education and
because everyone’s academic background will vary, advisors will work
directly with students to determine an appropriate sequence of courses
starting at admission into their respective program based on their needs
and expected time to completion.
Learning Outcomes
•Develop programs using fundamental programming constructs, data
structures, and algorithms, while demonstrating the ability to choose
appropriate solutions and justify their selections.
•Apply object-oriented principles (abstraction, delegation, inheritance,
and polymorphism) and design patterns, and demonstrate proﬁciency
in programming, testing, and debugging using a mainstream object-
oriented language.
Cybersecurity Technology
Management Certiﬁcate
The 3-course Cybersecurity Technology Management Certiﬁcate provides
students with a background in both the technological and managerial
skills needed to be an effective cybersecurity professional in today’s IT
enterprises.
Students will learn how to assess how organizational preparedness
against cyber threats and how to manage their aftermath, including
ensuring continuity of IT functions. Students also develop a strategy for
designing and building cloud security architectures. An emphasis on
ethical, legal, policy and regulatory concerns is embedded throughout the
program.
Related Programs
Major
•Cybersecurity (BS)  (p. 363)
Certiﬁcate
•Computer Science Certiﬁcate  (p. 860)
•Cybersecurity Certiﬁcate  (p. 1905 )
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Certiﬁcate RequirementsCPST 381Cybersecurity Governance3CPST 382 Cybersecurity Incident Response Management 3CPST 383Cloud Security Strategy and Architecture3Total Hours9
Optional:
•CPST 265 Special Topics : Advanced Topics in Cybersecurity
Technology Management: The optional course is included to address
up-to-the-minute topics, such as emerging threats, insider threats,
latest application delivery processes, and practices, etc.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The School of Continuing and Professional Studies provides a high-touch
advising model in order to incorporate the professional and educational
outcomes of the student as well as any transfer credit accepted.  In
order to provide students with maximum flexibility in their education and
because everyone’s academic background will vary, advisors will work
directly with students to determine an appropriate sequence of courses
starting at admission into their respective program based on their needs
and expected time to completion.
Learning Outcomes
•Explain the strategic importance of effective, interdisciplinary, and
multifunctional enterprise information security governance and
information security management program and its execution.
•Evaluate the effectiveness and potential application of multiple
information security governance structures and information security
management programs for variant enterprise scenarios with
consideration for strategic, operational, ethical, social, envi ronmental,
and risk factors.
•Apply foundational knowledge of governance, risk, and compliance
(GRC) concepts as they relate to legal, regulatory, and standards-
based environments, such as HIPAA, FISMA, NERC, PCI DSS, GLBA,
SOX, FERPA, COPPA, and others.
Information Technology (BA)
The B.A. in Information Technology is designed for those interested in
leadership roles in the growing and ever-critical IT job market. You can
begin the program with a minimal understanding of computers and ﬁnish
with skills to be an effective IT or software development practitioner.
Students have the option to pursue admission into the dual BA/MS
Information Technology program once they have completed 90 credit
hours toward their undergraduate degree. This positions students for
even more robust opportunities in their respective careers.
Related Programs
Certiﬁcate
•Cybersecurity Technology Management Certiﬁcate  (p. 861)
Combined
•Information Technology (BA/MS)  (p. 1251 )
•Information Technology/Computer Science (BA/MS)  (p. 1259 )
Curriculum
The B.A. in Information Technology comprises 120 credit hours. Courses
are offered in an 8 week session format with online and evening options.

--- Page 831 ---
862  Introduction to Data Science Certiﬁcate
Students will also have access to state-of-the-art computer labs to
support their studies.
Code Title Hours
Major CoursesCPST 250Foundations of Organizations3
CPST 310 Accounting Principles and Application 3CPST 349Project Management3
STAT 103 Fundamentals of Statistics 3COMP 170Introduction to Object-Oriented Programming3
COMP 251 Introduction to Database Systems 3COMP 271Data Structures I3
CPST 291 Dynamic Programming Languages 3CPST 325Data Processing, Analysis, and Visualization3
CPST 342 Introduction to Web Application Development 3CPST 343Software Development for Mobile Devices3
COMP 317 Social, Legal, and Ethical Issues in Computing 3CPST 345Introduction to IT : Networking, Cloud & Security3
SCPS CoursesCPST 200Introduction to Degree Completion3
CPST 201 Civic Identity and Development 3CPST 397Capstone3
Core RequirementsThe number of hours remaining toward Core requirements can vary
due to transfer credit.  1Mission Speciﬁc RequirementsMission speciﬁc requirements can vary from 0 to 15 credit hours
based on your prior credit.General Elective RequirementsStudents may have some general elective coursework to complete
if their transfer credit and remaining required hours (Core, mission
speciﬁc, major, etc.) do not total 120.Total Hours 120
1Core Requirements -  Learn More  (p. 1405 )
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The School of Continuing and Professional Studies provides a high-touch
advising model in order to incorporate the professional and educational
outcomes of the student as well as any transfer credit accepted.  In
order to provide students with maximum flexibility in their education and
because everyone’s academic background will vary, advisors will work
directly with students to determine an appropriate sequence of courses
starting at admission into their respective program based on their needs
and expected time to completion.
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.Learning Outcomes
Upon degree completion, graduates will be able to:
•Demonstrate a high level of proﬁciency in making informed and
strategic decisions, applying quantitative analysis, and implementing
project management strategies to effectively impact organizational
goals.
•Demonstrate knowledge of legal and ethical considerations in
information technology and apply technical and ethical solutions.
•Apply foundational knowledge of IT systems, computer networking,
and security, including cloud computing concepts, TCP/IP model,
packet-based networking, wireless networking, and cybersecurity
principles.
•Organize data in ways to emphasize relationships to elicit information
from a database that allows data to be mined, visualized and
graphically display via web interfaces.
•Develop programs using fundamental programming constructs, data
structures, and algorithms, while demonstrating the ability to choose
appropriate solutions and justify their selections.
•Apply object-oriented principles (abstraction, delegation, inheritance,
and polymorphism) and design patterns, and demonstrate proﬁciency
in programming, testing, and debugging using a mainstream object-
oriented language.
Introduction to Data Science
Certiﬁcate
This 3-course certiﬁcate introduces students to the key elements of Data
Science: Python programming, SQL & database design, data processing,
and analysis & visualization. The certiﬁcate provides any professional
valuable, widely applicable, and transferable skills.
Coursework explores the topics of data ethics and digital ethics. The
certiﬁcate is intended to help prepare the student for a dynamic career in
data analytic work, whether they seek to grow their existing career, switch
to a career within the data science realm, or explore data science as a
ﬁeld before committing to a degree program or advanced study in the
topic.
Related Programs
Major
•Data Science (BS)  (p. 378)
Certiﬁcate
•Computer Science Certiﬁcate  (p. 860)
Combined
•Data Science (BS/MS)  (p. 1080 )
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Certiﬁcate RequirementsCOMP 251Introduction to Database Systems3
CPST 291 Dynamic Programming Languages 3CPST 325Data Processing, Analysis, and Visualization3Total Hours9

--- Page 832 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 863
Optional:
•CPST 265 Special Topics  – 1-3 credits of directed study. Student will
solve a data science problem for a community non-proﬁt organization
under the guidance of a faculty member. Larger projects will be 3
credit hours held only on the 16-week semester schedule for either
fall or spring. Summer will not be an option for a 3-credit hour special
topics course. Interested students should start the process at least
6-weeks before the semester where you will potentially complete the
course.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The School of Continuing and Professional Studies provides a high-touch
advising model in order to incorporate the professional and educational
outcomes of the student as well as any transfer credit accepted.  In
order to provide students with maximum flexibility in their education and
because everyone’s academic background will vary, advisors will work
directly with students to determine an appropriate sequence of courses
starting at admission into their respective program based on their needs
and expected time to completion.
Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of the certiﬁcate, graduates will be able to:
•Create data analytic programs that perform rigorous statistical
analyses to address real-world questions in the social sciences.
•Evaluate datasets to determine how variables have been measured
and encoded, which statistical analyses can be performed upon them,
and which data cleaning and preparation protocols are necessary in
order to proceed.
•Apply the relational model to solving real-world problems using SQL
on standard DBMS platforms.
•Apply the programming languages of Python and SQL to speciﬁc data
analytic and visualization challenges, as well as to generate n ovel
code.
•Analyze the ethical considerations relevant to accurate data analysis
and reporting.
Management (BA)
The B.A. in Management degree program offers adult learners training
in critical skills, such as management principles, ethical leadership,
critical thinking and strategic planning. The grounding in these
principles elevates the impact our students have in their business
environments and positions them to pursue new career opportunities in
communications, community relations, and project management.
Related Programs
Major
•Management (BBA)  (p. 783)
Minor
•Management Minor  (p. 785)
Combined
•Management/Instructional Design (BA/MPS)  (p. 1270 )Curriculum
The B.A. in Management comprises 120 credit hours. Courses are offered
in an 8 week session format with online, evening, and weekend options.
Code Title Hours
Major CoursesCPST 250Foundations of Organizations3
CPST 310 Accounting Principles and Application 13CPST 340Marketing Concepts and Strategies 13
CPST 350 Human Resources Principles & Practices 3CPST 349Project Management3
CPST 243 Microeconomics 13CPST 245Macroeconomics 13
STAT 103 Fundamentals of Statistics 13CPST 371Organizational Finance3
CPST 335 Law and Regulations for Organizational Leaders 3CPST 247Computer Concepts and Applications3
COMM 175 Introduction to Communication 3Select one of the following:3
CPST 322 Strategic Communication Tools for Applied PsychCOMM 231Conflict Management and CommunicationCOMM 277 Organizational CommunicationSCPS CoursesCPST 200 Introduction to Degree Completion 3CPST 201Civic Identity and Development3
CPST 397 Capstone 3Core RequirementsThe number of hours remaining toward Core requirements can vary
due to transfer credit.  2Mission Speciﬁc RequirementsMission speciﬁc requirements can vary from 0 to 15 credit hours
based on your prior credit.General Elective RequirementsStudents may have some general elective coursework to complete
if their transfer credit and remaining required hours (Core, mission
speciﬁc, major, etc.) do not total 120.Total Hours120
1These courses are eligible for waiver to Loyola’s Quinlan School of
Business M.B.A. program. Final approval of waivers are determined by
a Quinlan academic advisor upon admission to the graduate program.
2Core Requirements -  Learn More  (p. 1405 )
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The School of Continuing and Professional Studies provides a high-touch
advising model in order to incorporate the professional and educational
outcomes of the student as well as any transfer credit accepted.  In
order to provide students with maximum flexibility in their education and
because everyone’s academic background will vary, advisors will work
directly with students to determine an appropriate sequence of courses
starting at admission into their respective program based on their needs
and expected time to completion.

--- Page 833 ---
864  New Media Communication Certiﬁcate
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
Upon degree completion, graduates will be able to:
•Demonstrate effective business communication in written
narratives, memos, argumentative narratives, oral presentations, and
collaborative documents.
•Develop productive team processes, team building, and leadership
skills through self-assessment exercises, reflection activities, role
playing and critical thinking assignments.
•Analyze organizational theory, structure, power dynamics and culture
in persuasive written documents and oral presentations.
•Describe the basic components of an organization’s control structure
and the role of accounting in an organization, through the analysis of
organizational ﬁnancial statements.
•Creatively solve business problems as evidenced by project
management simulations, strategic decision making, and quantita tive
analysis.
•Apply an understanding of law and regulation to business processes
as evidenced by course assignments.
New Media Communication
Certiﬁcate
This 3-course certiﬁcate will provide students with a foundation
in communication and marketing principles, with an emphasis on
social media and new digital media principles and tools. It int roduces
students to the principles and tools of communicating in the digital
space and includes coursework in communication theory and history,
communication literacy, digital media production, digital media ethics,
social media communication, online content production, and social media
literacy.
The certiﬁcate beneﬁts those who are seeking to remain current and
competitive within careers that are becoming increasingly digital, as well
as those seeking to pivot into positions involving digital strategy or social
media account management.
Related Programs
Major
•Communication Studies (BA)  (p. 823)
Minor
•Digital Media Minor  (p. 829)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Certiﬁcate RequirementsCOMM 175Introduction to Communication3
COMM 200 Digital Communication and Society 3COMM 261Social Media3Total Hours9
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The School of Continuing and Professional Studies provides a high-touch
advising model in order to incorporate the professional and educational
outcomes of the student as well as any transfer credit accepted.  In
order to provide students with maximum flexibility in their education and
because everyone’s academic background will vary, advisors will work
directly with students to determine an appropriate sequence of courses
starting at admission into their respective program based on their needs
and expected time to completion.
Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of the certiﬁcate, graduates will be able to:
•Explain how technology affects communication.
•Create audiovisual content using a variety of audio, visual, video, and
technical tools.
•Analyze communication research and audience data to tailor a media
outreach campaign.
•Understand how social media can contribute to organizational and
personal success.
•Create internet-optimized work (writing, audiovisual work, and social
media content) for the effective promotion of a business, nonproﬁt, or
personal project.
Organizational Development and
Leadership Certiﬁcate
This Organizational Development and Leadership Certiﬁcate is designed
for students looking to learn more about the theories, research and
practical applications of organizational development in the workplace.
Students explore how organizations work and acquire skills to assess,
diagnose and address structural and cultural problems. Students also
study human behavior in the workplace, which offers valuable knowledge
and skills for conflict management, motivation and morale, and employee
development.
Please Note: This certiﬁcate can only be completed by students working
toward an undergraduate degree within the School of Continuing &
Professional Studies.
Related Programs
Certiﬁcate
•Organizational Evaluation Certiﬁcate  (p. 2001 )
•Organizational Psychology Certiﬁcate  (p. 865)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Pre-requisites to CertiﬁcateCOMM 175Introduction to CommunicationCPST 250 Foundations of OrganizationsCertiﬁcate RequirementsCOMM 231 Conflict Management and Communication 3COMM 277Organizational Communication3
CPST 360 Development and Change in Organizations 3

--- Page 834 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 865CPST 370Leadership Theories and Applications3
CPST 380 Leadership, Culture and Ethics 3CPST 390Organizational Theory and Practice3Total Hours18
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The School of Continuing and Professional Studies provides a high-touch
advising model in order to incorporate the professional and educational
outcomes of the student as well as any transfer credit accepted.  In
order to provide students with maximum flexibility in their education and
because everyone’s academic background will vary, advisors will work
directly with students to determine an appropriate sequence of courses
starting at admission into their respective program based on their needs
and expected time to completion.
Learning Outcomes
Upon successful completion of the certiﬁcate, candidates will be able to:
•Explain organizational theory, structure, and power dynamics in
contemporary work settings.
•Demonstrate effective business writing in written narratives, memos,
argumentative narratives, and collaborative documents.
•Evaluate best practices in relation to assessment and solutions of
structural and cultural problems in the workplace.
•Analyze leadership best practices to promote productive
organizations.
Organizational Psychology
Certiﬁcate
The Organizational Psychology Certiﬁcate provides training on social
psychology, personality studies and industrial psychology. This certiﬁcate
is designed for those pursuing careers involving worker productivity,
assessment, training and human resources.
Please Note: This certiﬁcate can only be completed by students working
toward an undergraduate degree within the School of Continuing &
Professional Studies.
Related Programs
Certiﬁcate
•Organizational Development and Leadership Certiﬁcate  (p. 864)
•Organizational Evaluation Certiﬁcate  (p. 2001 )
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Pre-requisite to CertiﬁcatePSYC 101General PsychologyCertiﬁcate RequirementsPSYC 275Social Psychology3
PSYC 373 Health Psychology 3
or CPSY 433 Multicultural CounselingPSYC 338Psychology of Personality3
CPST 320 Program Evaluation 3CPST 322Strategic Communication Tools for Applied Psych3PSYC 362Industrial/Organizational Psychology3Total Hours18
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The School of Continuing and Professional Studies provides a high-touch
advising model in order to incorporate the professional and educational
outcomes of the student as well as any transfer credit accepted.  In
order to provide students with maximum flexibility in their education and
because everyone’s academic background will vary, advisors will work
directly with students to determine an appropriate sequence of courses
starting at admission into their respective program based on their needs
and expected time to completion.
Learning Outcomes
Upon successful completion of the Organizational Psychology Certiﬁcate,
candidates will be able to:
•Formulate analyses of organizational problems based on
psychological theory and propose evidenced based solution.
•Analyze key dynamics in employee personality, behavior, and
motivation.
•Critique leadership styles, group behavior and team dynamics.
•Practice effective organizational communication strategies related to
interviewing, persuasion, conflict resolution, and negotiation.
•Design evaluation to assess the impact of workplace programs.
•Evaluate best practices in relation to employee recruitment, selection,
performance evaluation, motivation, retention and training.
•Describe contemporary issues and approaches related to behavioral
health and counseling.
Paralegal Studies (BA)
From investigating facts and obtaining afﬁdavits to conducting legal
research and drafting documents, paralegals play a key role in supporting
the work of legal ofﬁces around the country. Successful attorneys,
meanwhile, understand the immense value a capable, skilled, and
knowledgeable paralegal brings to their organization, which heightens
competition for those with proven skills.
With a BA in Paralegal Studies, you position yourself to become a
prized, indispensable member of a legal team and create new career
opportunities for yourself.
Note: Paralegals may not provide legal services directly to the public
except as authorized by law.
Related Programs
Certiﬁcate
•Paralegal Studies - Corporate Practice Certiﬁcate  (p. 1929 )
•Paralegal Studies - Customized Certiﬁcate  (p. 1930 )
•Paralegal Studies - Litigation Practice Certiﬁcate  (p. 1931 )
Curriculum
The B.A. in Paralegal Studies comprises 120 credit hours. Courses are
offered in an 8 week session format with evening and Saturday morning
options.
All PLST courses carry 2 credit hours unless noted otherwise.

--- Page 835 ---
866  Strategic Digital Communication (BA)
Note: Institute students must complete at least 9 semester credit hours
of ABA-designated legal specialty courses through traditional classroom
instruction or synchronous online instruction.
Code Title Hours
Required Paralegal Core CoursesPLST 369Advanced Topics in American Law3
PLST 370 Advanced Legal Analysis & Writing I 3PLST 331Introduction to Paralegal Studies2
PLST 332 Legal Research and Writing I 2PLST 333Legal Research and Writing II2
PLST 335 Legal Ethics 2PLST 345Law Ofﬁce Computer Applications2
Practice Track RequirementsPLST 340Civil Litigation I2
PLST 341 Civil Litigation II 2PLST 342Litigation Technology & eDiscovery2
PLST 362 Business Organizations 2PLST 363Contract Administration & Analysis2
PLST 339 Secured Transactions and Bankruptcy 2Elective RequirementComplete 0-6 courses depending on transfer credit. 0-12SCPS CoursesCPST 200 Introduction to Degree Completion 3CPST 201Civic Identity and Development3
CPST 397 Capstone 3Core RequirementsThe number of hours remaining toward Core requirements can vary
due to transfer credit.  1Mission Speciﬁc RequirementsMission speciﬁc requirements can vary from 0 to 15 credit hours
based on your prior credit.General Elective RequirementsStudents may have some general elective coursework to complete
if their transfer credit and remaining required hours (Core, mission
speciﬁc, major, etc.) do not total 120.Total Hours120
1Core Requirements - Learn More  (p. 1405 )
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The School of Continuing and Professional Studies provides a high-touch
advising model in order to incorporate the professional and educational
outcomes of the student as well as any transfer credit accepted.  In
order to provide students with maximum flexibility in their education and
because everyone’s academic background will vary, advisors will work
directly with students to determine an appropriate sequence of courses
starting at admission into their respective program based on their needs
and expected time to completion.
Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of All BA in Paralegal Studies students will be able to: 
•Locate relevant legal sources from federal and state jurisdictions and
prepare  summaries of these sources. •Develop legal arguments using court decisions, statutes, and
administrative regulations. 
•Apply paralegal and attorney code of ethics to situations typically
encountered by paralegals. 
•Demonstrate intermediate competence using typical ofﬁce software
including Word, Excel, Adobe and PowerPoint.  
•Draft pleadings, collect and organize factual information and
pleadings to assist with investigation of the case, discovery and
preparation for trial.
•Assist attorneys who work for corporate clients document the
organization and operation of business entities. 
•Draft contract provisions and coordinate the administrative process
for contracts.
Strategic Digital Communication (BA)
Curriculum
The B.A. in Strategic Digital Communication comprises 120 credit hours.
Courses are offered in an 8-week session format with online, evening, and
weekend options.
Note : The following program is no longer accepting new students
Code Title Hours
Major CoursesCOMM 175Introduction to Communication3
COMM 200 Digital Communication and Society 3COMM 210Principles of Public Relations3
COMM 213 Digital Foundations 3COMM 261Social Media3
COMM 275 Web Design and Usability 3COMM 290Branding and Positioning3
COMM 318 Public Relations Writing 3COMM 360Digital Media Ethics3
COMM 363 Research Methods in Advertising/Public Relations 3SCPS CoursesCPST 200 Introduction to Degree Completion 3CPST 201Civic Identity and Development3
CPST 397 Capstone 3Core RequirementsThe number of hours remaining toward Core requirements can vary
due to transfer credit.  1Mission Speciﬁc RequirementsMission speciﬁc requirements can vary from 0 to 15 credit hours
based on your prior credit.General Elective RequirementsStudents may have some general elective coursework to complete
if their transfer credit and remaining required hours (Core, mission
speciﬁc, major, etc.) do not total 120.Total Hours120
1Core Requirements - Learn More  (p. 1405 )
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The School of Continuing and Professional Studies provides a high-touch
advising model in order to incorporate the professional and educational

--- Page 836 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 867
outcomes of the student as well as any transfer credit accepted.  In
order to provide students with maximum flexibility in their education and
because everyone’s academic background will vary, advisors will work
directly with students to determine an appropriate sequence of courses
starting at admission into their respective program based on their needs
and expected time to completion.
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
Upon degree completion, graduates will be able to:
•Analyze communication through a critical, historical, and theoretical
lens.
•Create effective communications in a variety of formats including
essays, news releases, pitch letters, fact sheets, public service
announcements, and web content.
•Apply theories regarding communication best practices to speciﬁc
audiences and messaging goals.
•Evaluate a message for its clarity, efﬁcacy, persuasive ability, and
utilization of digital technology.
•Understand the ethical issues involved in crafting an effective and
socially responsible message.
User Experience Design Certiﬁcate
User Experience (UX) Design is one of today’s fastest-growing
specializations. Applicable to everything from the web or mobile
applications to personal computers and other devices, UX Design seeks
to craft a meaningful and relevant experience speciﬁc to the product.
This 3-course certiﬁcate provides students with a foundation in the tools
and techniques of UX Design to either earn a position in UX Design or
advance their careers in the ﬁeld. Students learn how to conduct ﬁeld
research, objectively evaluate UX Designs, and take UX Design from
concept-to-prototype using appropriate tools, including personas, task
models, and user journey mapping. The application of UX Design in
business strategy is also explored.
Related Programs
Major
•Web Technologies (BA)  (p. 868)
Certiﬁcate
•Web Design and Development Certiﬁcate  (p. 867)
•Web Programming Certiﬁcate  (p. 1591 )
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Certiﬁcate RequirementsCPST 248User Experience Design Fundamentals3
CPST 249 User Experience Design Tools and Techniques 3CPST 341User Experience Design to Drive Business3Total Hours9
Optional:
•CPST 265 Special Topics  – 1-3 credits of directed study. Students will
complete a UX Design project community non-proﬁt organization or
another client under the guidance of a Faculty member.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The School of Continuing and Professional Studies provides a high-touch
advising model in order to incorporate the professional and educational
outcomes of the student as well as any transfer credit accepted.  In
order to provide students with maximum flexibility in their education and
because everyone’s academic background will vary, advisors will work
directly with students to determine an appropriate sequence of courses
starting at admission into their respective program based on their needs
and expected time to completion.
Learning Outcomes
Upon successful completion of the certiﬁcate, candidates will be able to:
•Critique website aesthetics, accessibility, and usability and apply
graphic design principles to strategically align business objec tives
with UX Design goals by effectively utilizing the User Experience (UX)
Design process.
•Effectively apply the User Experience (UX) Design process, utilizing
personas, task models, and user journey mapping techniques, to
connect and align business objectives with UX Design goals.
Web Design and Development
Certiﬁcate
The 3-course Web Design and Development Certiﬁcate equips students
with the marketable skillset needed to design and develop websites and
web applications for today's marketplace. Using WordPress, students will
learn about the design and accessibility of websites using a JavaScript-
based programming stack for web development (HTML/CSS/JavaScript/
React or similar JavasScript framework).
Upon successful completion of the program, students will have the skills
needed to seek out entry-level and freelance positions in web design and
development roles.
Related Programs
Major
•Web Technologies (BA)  (p. 868)
Certiﬁcate
•User Experience Design Certiﬁcate  (p. 867)
•Web Programming Certiﬁcate  (p. 1591 )
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Certiﬁcate RequirementsCOMM 275Web Design and Usability3
CPST 242 Design for the Web 3

--- Page 837 ---
868  Web Technologies (BA)CPST 342Introduction to Web Application Development3Total Hours9
Optional:
•CPST 265 Special Topics  – 1-3 credits of directed study. Students will
construct a website for a community non-proﬁt organization under
the guidance of a Faculty member.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The School of Continuing and Professional Studies provides a high-touch
advising model in order to incorporate the professional and educational
outcomes of the student as well as any transfer credit accepted.  In
order to provide students with maximum flexibility in their education and
because everyone’s academic background will vary, advisors will work
directly with students to determine an appropriate sequence of courses
starting at admission into their respective program based on their needs
and expected time to completion.
Learning Outcomes
Upon successful completion of the certiﬁcate, candidates will be able to:
•Apply graphic design principles and web standards to proﬁciently
plan, design, and construct modern, browser-compatible websites
while incorporating HTML, CSS, and JS.
•Develop and deploy modern, standards-compliant web applications
while demonstrating proﬁciency in best practices, utilizing
contemporary web technology solutions, and effectively managing
software project versions through version control techniques.
Web Technologies (BA)
Web technologies are ever evolving. New tools, apps, sites, and
algorithms constantly change norms and best practices in the ﬁeld
shift on a constant basis. Earning a degree in Web Technologies from
the School of Continuing and Professional Studies (SCPS) at Loyola
University Chicago prepares you for this fast-paced, ever-changing world.
Designed for those interested in careers in web development or design,
web or social media analytics, or software engineering, SCPS’s Web
Technologies degree program provides students a strong foundation in
the design and development of websites and web applications.
Related Programs
Certiﬁcate
•User Experience Design Certiﬁcate  (p. 867)
•Web Design and Development Certiﬁcate  (p. 867)
•Web Programming Certiﬁcate  (p. 1591 )
Curriculum
The B.A. in Web Technologies comprises 120 credit hours. Courses are
offered in an 8-week session format with online, evening, and weekend
options.
Code Title Hours
Major CoursesCOMP 317Social, Legal, and Ethical Issues in Computing3
COMM 275 Web Design and Usability 3CPST 242Design for the Web3CPST 342 Introduction to Web Application Development 3COMP 170Introduction to Object-Oriented Programming3
COMP 251 Introduction to Database Systems 3COMP 271Data Structures I3
CPST 291 Dynamic Programming Languages 3CPST 343Software Development for Mobile Devices3
CPST 325 Data Processing, Analysis, and Visualization 3CPST 248User Experience Design Fundamentals3
CPST 249 User Experience Design Tools and Techniques 3CPST 341User Experience Design to Drive Business3
SCPS CoursesCPST 200Introduction to Degree Completion3
CPST 201 Civic Identity and Development 3CPST 397Capstone3
Core RequirementsThe number of hours remaining toward Core requirements can vary
due to transfer credit.  1Mission Speciﬁc RequirementsMission speciﬁc requirements can vary from 0 to 15 credit hours
based on your prior credit.General Elective RequirementsStudents may have some general elective coursework to complete
if their transfer credit and remaining required hours (Core, mission
speciﬁc, major, etc.) do not total 120.Total Hours 120
1Core Requirements - Learn More  (p. 1405 )
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The School of Continuing and Professional Studies provides a high-touch
advising model in order to incorporate the professional and educational
outcomes of the student as well as any transfer credit accepted.  In
order to provide students with maximum flexibility in their education and
because everyone’s academic background will vary, advisors will work
directly with students to determine an appropriate sequence of courses
starting at admission into their respective program based on their needs
and expected time to completion.
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
Upon degree completion, graduates will be able to:
•Develop modern, standards-compliant web applications while
demonstrating proﬁciency in best practices, utilizing contemporary
web technology solutions, and effectively managing software project
versions through version control techniques.
•Critique website aesthetics, accessibility, and usability and apply
graphic design principles to strategically align business objec tives

--- Page 838 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 869
with UX Design goals by effectively utilizing the User Experience (UX)
Design process.
•Utilize client-side services to interact with server-side APIs, model
and implement structured and unstructured data, and perform data
analysis using standard toolkits and libraries.
•Develop programs using fundamental programming constructs, data
structures, and algorithms, while demonstrating the ability to choose
appropriate solutions and justify their selections.
•Apply object-oriented principles (abstraction, delegation, inheritance,
and polymorphism) and design patterns, and demonstrate proﬁciency
in programming, testing, and debugging using a mainstream object-
oriented language.
•Demonstrate knowledge of legal and ethical considerations in
information technology and apply technical and ethical solutions.
School of Education
Mission and Vision
Our Vision
At the School of Education of Loyola University Chicago, future education
leaders will have a transformational experience, one that prepares them
to address social inequalities in both their local and global communities
through the power of education and research.
Our Mission
The School of Education at Loyola University Chicago, a Jesuit Catholic
urban university, supports the Jesuit ideal of knowledge in the service
of humanity. We endeavor to advance equity in education in service of
social justice, engaged with Chicago, the nation, and the world. In pursuit
of our vision, the School of Education participates in the discovery,
development, demonstration, and dissemination of professional
knowledge and practice within a context of ethics, service to others, and
social justice.
Our mission is social justice, but our responsibility is social action
through education and research. We fulﬁll our responsibility by preparing
professionals to serve as teachers, administrators, counselors,
psychologists, and policymakers who work across the human
developmental continuum, and by conducting research on issues of
professional practice in schools, families, and communities. In our
immersive learning environment, students gain both second-to-none
foundational knowledge and a strategic system-wide vision working
alongside some of the top scholars and teachers in the nation. Through
our rigorous curriculum, students learn to be comfortable with the
uncomfortable, supported by our passionate and dedicated faculty, staff,
and administrators. And they leave with lasting relationships with each
other and an extensive alumni network of leaders in education across
Illinois, the U.S., and the world.
Undergraduate Programs
•Bilingual/Bicultural Education (BSEd)  (p. 887)
•Biology/Secondary Education (BS/MEd)  (p. 1020 )
•Early Childhood Special Education (BSEd)  (p. 890)
•Education Policy Studies Minor  (p. 892)
•Elementary Education (BSEd)  (p. 893)
•Elementary Education/International Affairs (BSEd/MA)  (p. 1089 )
•English (BA/BSED)  (p. 406)•English as a Second Language (ESL) and Bilingual Endorsement
Certiﬁcates  (p. 896)
•Leadership Studies Minor  (p. 897)
•Middle Grades (BSEd)  (p. 898)
•Physics/Secondary Education (BS/MEd)  (p. 1310 )
•Reading Teacher Minor  (p. 903)
•Secondary Education (BSEd)  (p. 904)
•Secondary Education/International Affairs (BSEd/MA)  (p. 1335 )
•Special Education (BSEd)  (p. 909)
•Special Education/International Affairs (BSEd/MA)  (p. 1372 )
•Special Education Minor  (p. 912)
•Teaching and Learning Minor  (p. 914)
University Policies
Please see University Policies for academic policies that supersede those
of academic units within the University
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Counseling Psychology (CPSY)
CPSY 100   Intro Var Chd Dev&Impl Sp Educ   (3 Credit Hours)   
No course description is available
CPSY 200   Psyc Acad & Persnl Effect   (3 Credit Hours)   
No course description is available
CPSY 220   Speech & Language Development   (3 Credit Hours)   
No course description is available
CPSY 224   Career and Life Planning Seminar   (3 Credit Hours)   
Because most students will make several career or job changes during
their lives, the purpose of this course is to teach students a decision-
making process that can be used when making career-related decisions.
planning; and planning an effective job search campaign.
Course equivalencies:  CPSY 224/UNIV 224   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to apply the decision-making process to a decision
they are trying to make (eg, choosing a major, choosing a career)
CPSY 273   Developmental Psychology   (3 Credit Hours)   
No course description is available
Course equivalencies:  X-CPSY273/PSYC273   
CPSY 323   Theories of Counseling and Psychotherapy   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines major theories of counseling and psychotherapy in
a culturally-diverse society.
Course equivalencies:  X - CPSY 323 / 423   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the relationship
between counseling theory and counseling practice, and the key
elements, concepts, and techniques associated with ten major theories of
counseling and psychotherapy; Students will also be able to apply each
major theory to potential client problem situations

--- Page 839 ---
870  School of Education
CPSY 324   Career Counseling and Development   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines research and theories on career development and
counseling and their applications to assessing, treating, and preventing
career-related problems across the life-cycle.
Course equivalencies:  X - CPSY 324 / 424   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of ﬁve major
theories of career development; the structure of vocational interests,
needs, and abilities and how each can be assessed, major sources of
occupational information; how to apply theory and research to problems
of career choice-making, job ﬁnding, and work adjustment
CPSY 332   Multicultural Counseling   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course provides an overview of the experiences of various cultural
groups with the United States, concerning issues of oppression, identity
development, and acculturation, for instance. The course aims to develop
multicultural competence by increasing students' awareness, knowledge
and skill base.
Course equivalencies:  X - CPSY 332 / 433   
Outcomes:
Students will increase their awareness of their own cultural background,
biases, and world view and their knowledge of the world view of culturally
diverse clients and will begin to develop appropriate interventions
strategies to work effectively with diverse populations
CPSY 333   Abnormal Psychology   (3 Credit Hours)   
No course description is available
Course equivalencies:  X-CPSY333/PSYC331/ACPSY280   
CPSY 334   Child, Family, and Community   (3 Credit Hours)   
No course description is available
CPSY 335   Attitudes, Values & Sexual Behavior   (3 Credit Hours)   
No course description is available
CPSY 337   Adolescent Development   (3 Credit Hours)   
Requirement: ANTH 100, PLSC 102, PSYC 100 or SOCL 101 for students
admitted to Loyola University for Fall 2012 or later. No requirement for
students admitted to Loyola prior to Fall 2012 or those with a declared
major or minor in the Department of Anthropology, Department of
Criminal Justice, Department of Economics, Department of Psychology,
Department of Political Science, the Department of Sociology, Human
Services or the School of Nursing. This course introduces students
to developmental processes, social context, variance (diversity),
and psychological/educational implications of the life stage called
"adolescence".
Outcomes:
Students will be expected to demonstrate an understanding the stages
of normal adolescent development within a variety of cultural contexts as
well as situations which compromise adolescent mental health and well
being
CPSY 338   Psychology of Personality   (3 Credit Hours)   
No course description is available
Course equivalencies:  X-CPSY338/PSYC338   
CPSY 341   Principles of Guidance   (3 Credit Hours)   
No course description is availableCPSY 342   Identity and Pluralism   (3 Credit Hours)   
Requirement: ANTH 100, PLSC 102, PSYC 100 or SOCL 101 for students
admitted to Loyola University for Fall 2012 or later. No requirement for
students admitted to Loyola prior to Fall 2012 or those with a declared
major or minor in the Department of Anthropology, Department of
Criminal Justice, Department of Economics, Department of Psychology,
Department of Political Science, the Department of Sociology, Human
Services or the School of Nursing. A critical examination of theory
and research on the role of culture in identity development. Particular
emphasis will be given to such concepts as racism, sexism, ethnicity,
culture, class prejudice, and ethnocentrism and how these help shape an
individual's identity and society's conceptualization of culture.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate ability to think critically about issues of
race, class, culture, and gender, and to analyze how these issues play
themselves out in our schools and school systems
Curriculum, Instruction & Educational
Psychology (CIEP)
CIEP L359   Reading - Elementary Lab   (1 Credit Hour)   
No course description is available
CIEP L362   Literacy Instruction in the Content Area-Lab   (1 Credit Hour)   
No course description is available
CIEP L414   Instructional Methods Lab   (1 Credit Hour)   
No course description is available
CIEP L421   Literacy Instruction Elementary Lab   (1 Credit Hour)   
No course description is available
CIEP L423   Advanced Literacy Instruction in Content Area-Lab   (1 Credit
Hour)   
No course description is available
CIEP LM60   Secondary Methods: Social Studies Lab   (1 Credit Hour)   
No course description is available
CIEP LM61   Secondary Methods: English Lab   (1 Credit Hour)   
No course description is available
CIEP LM62   Secondary Methods: Mathematics Lab   (1 Credit Hour)   
No course description is available
CIEP LM63   Secondary Methods: Modern Languages Lab   (1 Credit
Hour)   
No course description is available
CIEP LM64   Secondary Methods: Science Lab   (1 Credit Hour)   
No course description is available
CIEP LM83   Teaching Science in Elementary School-Lab   (1 Credit Hour)   
No course description is available
CIEP M03   Student Teaching: Infants, Toddlers and PreSchoolers   (6
Credit Hours)   
This course (along with the related ﬁeld experiences) serves as a
continuation of the Methods courses and meets the requirements of a
preprimary student teaching experience.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Teacher candidates will be provided with supervised applied experience
in assessment and instruction with children in early childhood special
education and will be prepared to work in an early childhood special
education setting

--- Page 840 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 871
CIEP M04   K-3 Student Teaching   (9 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CIEP M03   
This course is the culminating experience of the Early Childhood Special
Education Teacher Education Program. Candidates are placed in a
classroom with an experienced cooperating teacher.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
In addition to their planning and teaching responsibilities, student
teachers also are expected to reflect on their experience, develop their
planning and instructional skills, and compile a teaching portfolio
CIEP M13   Techniques of Teaching in Secondary Schools   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course introduces the secondary education student to the realities
of the public, urban middle or high school setting. It provides students
with an initial experience to the actual teaching of adolescents within
their major discipline. Supervision and feedback are provided by the
university course instructor and a subject speciﬁc high school teacher in
the ﬁeld. Students enroll concurrently in CIEP M14.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate principles of lesson design in a
speciﬁc subject content, create instruction designed for students in a
diverse urban setting, analyze and apply "best practices" pedagogy, and
develop a personal philosophy of teaching
CIEP M14   Secondary School Teaching in Context: Clinical Seminar   (1
Credit Hour)   
Directed classroom experiences that consist of a minimum of 30 clinical
hours that include lesson planning and teaching related to the course
content. The seminar meets only during the clinical ﬁeld experience. Co-
register with CIEP M13.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to observe exemplary practices in selected urban
high school classrooms, create and deliver instruction to students in that
setting, and analyze and reflect on those experiences
CIEP M15   Methods Teaching Art & Sec   (3 Credit Hours)   
No course description is available
CIEP M16   K-2 Literacy Methods for EC   (2 Credit Hours)   
This course is to introduce the preservice teacher candidate to the
teaching and learning processes associated with research based
comprehensive literacy instruction in K-2 elementary classrooms and
will emphasize the scientiﬁc foundations of reading instruction: phonics,
vocabulary, text comprehension and fluency.
Outcomes:
A student enrolled in CIEP M16 will demonstrate beginning competence
in the knowledge base, skills, and strategies stated in the Illinois
Professional Teaching Standards and ECE standards
CIEP M17   Early Childhood Math Methods   (2 Credit Hours)   
Two credit hour math methods course speciﬁcally for early childhood
special education majors. this course is designed to reflect current ISBE
standards, and best practices in early math. It addresses mathematical
thinking, concepts, and skills across the birth to grade 2 continuum.
Outcomes:
It addresses mathematical thinking, concepts, and skills across the birth
to grade 2 continuum
CIEP M20   Methods-Materials Elementary Science-Social Studies   (1
Credit Hour)   
No course description is available
CIEP M21   Methods-Materials Mathematics   (3 Credit Hours)   
No course description is availableCIEP M22   Problems-Materials Teaching Reading & Language Arts   (3
Credit Hours)   
No course description is available
CIEP M23   Introduction to Teaching and General Elementary Methods   (3
Credit Hours)   
This course is designed to help students examine the complex role of
the teacher and to understand principles and methods of curriculum,
instruction, and evaluation in the elementary school.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to design an instructional plan, analyze the
characteristics of an effective classroom, and articulate major challenges
facing school systems
CIEP M24   Practice in Instruction-Elem   (1 Credit Hour)   
No course description is available
CIEP M30   Academic Assessments and Interventions   (3 Credit Hours)   
In this course, students will learn about psychological and educational
assessment with a special focus on issues related to non-biased
assessment and the link between assessment and intervention in the
instructional consultative process.
Outcomes:
Students will develop and administer appropriate intervention plans
related to the instructional needs of students with disabilities
CIEP M31   Behavior Interventions: Assessments and Supports   (3 Credit
Hours)   
The purpose of this course is to develop the students ability to provide
positive support to learners whose behavior(s) impedes their learning or
the learning of others.
Outcomes:
The student will be able to plan and develop school wide group and
individual supports, make adjustments as needed to IEPS, and assess
the on-going progress being made by students for whom behavioral
interventions have been planned
CIEP M32   Exceptional Learner II   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides in depth understanding of the ethical and
professional issues related to collaborative service provision for children
with disabilities.
Outcomes:
By viewing ability within the broader context of human diversity, students
will learn instructional strategies that foster a student's meaningful
participation in heterogeneous classrooms as well as the larger
communities in which they live
CIEP M33   Accessing and Adapting the General Education Curriculum   (3
Credit Hours)   
Within this course, candidates explore methods to adapt the general
education curriculum in order to meet the individual needs of students
with disabilities. Issues of differentiating student needs, long and short-
term planning, technology-assisted learning, and vocational and social
skills curricula will be addressed along with behaviors and modiﬁcation
related to low incidence exceptionalities.
Outcomes:
Candidates will demonstrate an understanding of adapting the general
education curriculum for students with special needs through the design
of a universalized lesson plan, a synthesis of relevant literature, and
researching assistive technology

--- Page 841 ---
872  School of Education
CIEP M34   Family, Community and School-Based Consultation   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Within this course, candidates explore how members of families affected
by disability and school/community professionals can enter into
productive partnerships and create positive outcomes for students in
elementary and secondary schools. Different approaches to work on
school or community based teams, the different aspects of planning
and implementing team process, and the challenges and threats to that
process, are examined.
Outcomes:
Candidates will demonstrate an understanding of collaborative
relationships, and design and evaluate a wraparound plan for a student
with a disability based on case study information and research
CIEP M35   Methods of Instruction: Infants, Toddler and Preschoolers   (3
Credit Hours)   
This course is designed to prepare candidates to develop curriculum and
assessment strategies for working with infants, toddlers, and p reschool
children.
Outcomes:
Candidates will develop a strong foundation of so that they are able to
make more successful accommodations and modiﬁcations for children
with exceptionalities
CIEP M36   Methods of Teaching K-3: Social Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
The purpose of this course is to provide an overview of teaching social
studies to student in Kindergarten through third grades.
Outcomes:
Teacher candidates will become prepared to develop social studies
curriculum appropriate for students in the primary grades including the
development of a classroom management philosophy (and the necessary
skills for implementing it), as well as the development of instructional
techniques in preparation for student teaching
CIEP M37   Methods of Teaching K-3: Math and Science   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on math and science content and methods for
teachers in kindergarten through grade three.
Outcomes:
Candidates will learn, design, and teach curriculum and lesson plans in
math and science, as well as formal and informal assessment strategies
CIEP M38   Methods of Teaching K-3: Reading and Literacy   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course prepares candidates to guide young children from diverse
cultural backgrounds in learning to read and write.
Outcomes:
Teacher candidates will become familiar with and learn to 1) recognize
and describe the development stages of learning to read and write for 4-8
year olds, 2) identify factors that influence this learning process, and 3)
develop curricula for reading and writingCIEP M42   K-2 Special Education Methods for ECSE   (2 Credit Hours)   
In this context, methods to adapt the curriculum to individuali ze
instruction to meet the needs of students with special needs will be
discussed. Issues of differentiating student needs, long and short-term
planning, technology-assisted learning, and social skills curriculum will
be addressed. Students will also learn how to actively create learning
environments which promote positive learning results in general and
special curricula by modifying the learning environment, using direct
motivational and instructional interventions.
Outcomes:
Demonstrates current knowledge of integrated learning experiences
for children from birth through grade three and understands the central
concepts and tools of inquiry in each of the following content area:
language and literacy (English language arts); mathematics; science;
health, safety, nutrition, and movement (physical development and
health); art, music, and drama (ﬁne arts); and social science; understands
how to plan developmentally and culturally appropriate curriculum;
understands how to use and integrate appropriate technological
resources into classroom instruction
CIEP M43   Special Education Methods: Infants, Toddlers and
Preschoolers   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides an overview in curricular adaptations and
instructional strategies that address the needs of young children.
Outcomes:
Candidates will gain experience in developing strategies for meeting
the educational and developmental needs of infants and young children
with disabilities, as well as those who experience circumstances and
conditions that potentially interfere with optimal growth and development
CIEP M44   Special Education Methods K-3   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is designed to meet the needs of future general and special
education teachers in diverse and inclusive classrooms with particular
focus being given to whole-class models for addressing student diversity
and disabilities, followed by speciﬁc instructional strategies and
interventions for students with particular types of special needs.
Outcomes:
Candidates will become familiar with inclusive strategies and methods
for monitoring performance during pre-referral interventions
CIEP M47   Choral Conducting   (3 Credit Hours)   
No course description is available
Course equivalencies:  X-CIEPM47/MUSCM47   
CIEP M48   Art in the Elementary School   (1 Credit Hour)   
This course presents students with an overview of the elements and
principals of visual art, reviews arts materials and explores methods of
integrating arts with core curriculum: Language Arts, Math, Science and
Social Studies.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to identify the elements and principles o f art
and create visual art projects incorporating core curriculum with the
knowledge of art materials

--- Page 842 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 873
CIEP M60   Secondary Methods: Social Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
In this course students examine teaching and learning in the social
studies in grades 9-12. Students explore a variety of methods for
teaching each discipline within the social studies as distinct subjects
and as elements of interdisciplinary courses. The course emphasizes
curriculum planning, practice teaching in the social studies and ﬁeldwork
in schools and social studies-related organizations.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will design curricula and demonstrate instructional strategies
in the social studies that meet the needs of diverse learners and focus on
deep engagements with social studies content
CIEP M60L   Secondary Methods: Social Studies Lab   (0 Credit Hours)   
No course description is available
CIEP M61   Secondary Methods: English   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides an intensive examination of the methods utilized
in the teaching of language arts in grades 9-12. The course allows
opportunities for students to synthesize their philosophy, content
knowledge, and practice, in preparation for student teaching. In addition,
students will be able to design and implement meaningful literacy
experiences and curricula.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  X-CIEPM61/ENGL396   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to implement methods of teaching language,
composition, and literature, in grades nine through twelve
CIEP M61L   Secondary Methods: English Lab   (0 Credit Hours)   
No course description is available
CIEP M62   Secondary Methods: Mathematics   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is designed to provide students with the knowledge and
methods necessary for success in teaching in today's secondary
mathematics classroom.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to implement methods of teaching mathematics
and methods of assessment in grades sixth through twelve
CIEP M62L   Secondary Methods: Mathematics Lab   (0 Credit Hours)   
No course description is available
CIEP M63   Secondary Methods: Foreign Language   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is designed to prepare students to enter their student
teaching experience with having created a standards-based curricular
unit including assessments, goals, objectives, and activities/
assignments.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to implement methods of teaching a foreign
language and methods of assessment in grades sixth through twelve
CIEP M63L   Secondary Methods: Modern Languages Lab   (0 Credit
Hours)   
No course description is availableCIEP M64   Secondary Methods: Science   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is designed to help pre-service teachers develop the
theoretical background, practical knowledge, and skills essential for
successful science teaching at the high school level.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to draw Teaching Science in the Elementary/Middle
School connections among instructional planning, implementation, and
assessment of student learning through a ﬁeld experience as well as the
practice of instructional skills in peer teaching lessons
CIEP M64L   Secondary Methods: Science Lab   (0 Credit Hours)   
No course description is available
CIEP M65   Methods in Secondary School Music   (3 Credit Hours)   
No course description is available
Course equivalencies:  X-CIEPM65/MUSCM65   
CIEP M77   Bilingual/Bicultural Methods and Materials   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is designed to provide participants with the knowledge,
skills, and competencies needed to meet the needs of English Language
Learners in bilingual contexts.
Outcomes:
Students will understand the theoretical basis, methods, and techniques
needed for effective teaching in bilingual bicultural classrooms and will
be able to develop materials to put bilingual theory and methods into
practice
CIEP M78   Methods/Materials Teaching English as a Second
Language   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is designed as a practical hands-on course that exp lores best
practice in teaching in English with linguistic minority students.
Outcomes:
Students will learn methods of teaching listening, speaking, reading, and
writing in English and methods of integrating the teaching of language
and academic content, tailored to meet the needs of individual English
Language Learners
CIEP M80   Materials and Methods for Middle School Math
Instruction   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides students with a broad range of instructional
materials and activities for teaching standards-based mathematics in the
middle school.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to teach mathematics in departmentalized
programs in the elementary schools, utilizing a wide range of
manipulatives and technologies
CIEP M80L   Mtls & Mthds Math Instr Gr 6-8 Lab   (0 Credit Hours)   
No course description is available
CIEP M83   Teaching Science in the Elementary/Middle School   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course is designed to help students develop the theoretical
background, practical knowledge, and skills essential for successful
science teaching at the elementary and middle school levels.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to draw connections among instructional planning,
implementation, and assessment of student learning through a ﬁeld
experience as well as the practice of instructional skills in peer teaching
lessons
CIEP M83L   Advanced Instruction Subject Speciﬁc Lab   (0 Credit Hours)   
No course description is available

--- Page 843 ---
874  School of Education
CIEP M86   Middle School Science Methods   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course will be paired with one of the CAS science courses; it
emphasizes various advanced Instructional models such as inductive,
deductive, inquiry role development, technology integration, and
cooperative learning.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to understand and practice instructional models to
effectively teach ALL students and assess their learning
CIEP M96   Teaching Theatre in Secondary School   (3 Credit Hours)   
No course description is available
Course equivalencies:  X-THTR303/CIEPM96   
CIEP M99   Methods Teaching Speech Secondary School   (3 Credit
Hours)   
No course description is available
Course equivalencies:  X-CIEPM99/CMUN308   
CIEP MU1   Student Teaching: Special Education   (9 Credit Hours)   
No course description is available
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
CIEP MU2   Practicum (Student Teaching) BD II   (8 Credit Hours)   
No course description is available
CIEP MU3   Student Teaching-Early Childhood   (9 Credit Hours)   
No course description is available
CIEP MU4   Student Teaching in Music   (9 Credit Hours)   
No course description is available
CIEP MU5   Student Teaching: Elementary School   (9 Credit Hours)   
This capstone course engages the student in the actual activity of
teaching in the elementary school all day, every day, during the semester.
Those engaged in student teaching are closely monitored by an
experienced cooperating teacher at the school site and supervised by
university faculty who have had extensive classroom experience.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Student teaching gives the prospective teacher the opportunity to meld
theory with practice in the actual activity of teaching
CIEP MU6   Student Teaching: Secondary School   (9 Credit Hours)   
This capstone course engages the student in the actual activity of
teaching in the secondary school all day, every day, during the semester.
Those engaged in student teaching are closely monitored by an
experienced cooperating teacher at the school site and supervised by
university faculty who have had extensive classroom experience.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Student teaching gives the prospective teacher the opportunity to meld
theory with practice in the actual activity of teaching
CIEP 104   Mathematics for Teachers I   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides the foundation for teaching standards based
mathematics in the elementary school classroom. In this ﬁrst course,
students study geometry, measurement, data analysis and probability
and fulﬁll the civic engagement value of core by tutoring in the Chicago
Public Schools.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  X-CIEP104/MATH147   
Outcomes:
Students will broaden their understanding of elementary school
mathematics instruction and tutor elementary-aged studentsCIEP 105   Mathematics for Teachers II   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides the foundation for teaching standards based
mathematics in the elementary school classroom. In this second course,
students study algebra and numbers and operations.
Course equivalencies:  X-CIEP105/MATH148   
Outcomes:
Students will broaden their understanding of elementary school
mathematics instruction and teach math lessons in middle school
classrooms
CIEP 106   Math for Teachers III-Computer   (3 Credit Hours)   
No course description is available
CIEP 112   Strategies for Learning   (1 Credit Hour)   
This course is designed primarily for ﬁrst and second year students to
strengthen their academic skills. This course provides an opportunity for
students to evaluate their goals and motivation for studying at Loyola
and to develop effective strategies for academic success.
Course equivalencies:  CIEP 112/UNIV 112   
Outcomes:
Students will have a clearer view of their goals and the steps and
strategies needed for achieving academic success
CIEP 113   First Year Seminar   (1 Credit Hour)   
This one-credit seminar course is open to incoming ﬁrst-year STEP
students only. Students will complete assignments related to personal
and academic goals, and strategies for achieving academic success.
Course equivalencies:  UNIV 113/CIEP 113   
CIEP 113A   First Year Seminar I   (0 Credit Hours)   
No course description is available
CIEP 113B   First Year Seminar II   (1 Credit Hour)   
No course description is available
CIEP 114   Critical Skills   (1 Credit Hour)   
This course will focus on concepts and strategies for academic success
and critical thinking. We will explore models for developing skills that
will aid in success in educational, career, and personal endeavors.
This course will also focus on learning how to evaluate goals and on
motivation for studying at Loyola and how to develop effective strategies
for continued academic success. Students will participate in class
discussions, class projects, and service projects that are particularly
aimed at teaching each student a variety of skills that they will apply
to academic areas, the university community, and other critical areas.
Students will study critical thinking, societal pressures, problem solving,
and personal issues that may affect college success.
Outcomes:
This course will offer students a series of learning support, academic
success skills and specialized advising; The skills for academic
achievement and life-long learning are covered; Various aspects of
transitional and other motivational issues that traditionally impede
student success will also be explored; This course will also provide
students with a framework where they will be able to set personal goals
and develop strategies to succeed

--- Page 844 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 875
CIEP 185   Understanding Science for PK-12 Educators   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course explores the following questions: What is science? How does
it work? Why is it important? What challenges and threats does it face
in the 21st century? The course also addresses fundamental principles
of topics from the physical sciences and engineering within the context
of and for the purpose of extending PK-12 education. Alignment with the
respective National Science Teaching Association Standard is as follows
NSTA Standard 1: Content Knowledge.
Outcomes:
Students who take this course will understand the nature of scientiﬁc
knowledge; engage in scientiﬁc and engineering practices in order to
enhance their knowledge and understanding of the natural world and
of foundational concepts within the physical sciences and engineering
disciplines; make meaningful connections within and between science
disciplines; articulate core challenges and threats to science in the 21st
century; develop critical thinking and reasoning skills; develop strategies
to promote science acceptance and confront mis- and disinformation and
science denial; and develop strategies to promote equity and inclusion
within science and science education
CIEP 201   Seminar in Teaching I   (0-1 Credit Hours)   
The purpose of the Seminar in Teaching 1 is to provide a mechanism
for the development of a learning community composed of teacher
candidates and teacher educators. Teacher candidates enroll as
freshmen and meet formally, as a cohort, four times during each semester
throughout their senior year. The seminar serves to prepare future
teachers through a mentoring process by connecting teacher candidates
with each other and with the university faculty and 2 professional
teacher practitioners through shared learning experiences, which include
opportunities to observe and reflect on model teaching strategies. The
Seminar in Teaching 1 focuses on the development of critical thinking
and problem-solving skills that deﬁne the teacher in both urban and
suburban classrooms. Academic advising sessions will be scheduled to
monitor academic progress and to encourage professional development.
CIEP 202   Seminar in Teaching II   (1 Credit Hour)   
This seminar along with 201, 203, 204 prepares future teachers by
offering a monitoring process that connects teacher candidates to each
other and with university faculty and professional teacher practitioners
through shared learning experiences. Freshman has taken educational
psychology in this cohort, which meets weekly throughout the semester.
As a cohort, they discuss and relate their own cultural education and
backgrounds to understand how beliefs and experiences influence
decision-making or educations and how these experiences impact
teaching careers. Teacher candidates experience various teaching
strategies, address current and historical educational issues, and reflect
on modeling skills. Development of critical thinking and problem solving
skills revolve around curriculum issues such as beliefs and philosophies,
historical events that have helped to shape our current educational
system, schools in society, current social problems and how schools are
addressing these issues, partnerships in the school arena, and state and
federal regulations. Discussion based on outside work will be part of the
course agenda. Various technologies will be used to assist candidates
during the course.CIEP 203   Seminar in Teaching III   (1 Credit Hour)   
The purpose of the Seminar in Teaching III is to provide a mechanism
for the development of a learning community composed of teacher
candidates and teacher educators. This seminar was speciﬁcally
designed for transfer students to assist with their transition into the
Teachers for the 21st (T21C) program. The seminar also serves to prepare
future teachers through a mentoring process by connecting teacher
candidates with each other, with the university faculty, and with the
professional teacher practitioners through shared l earning experiences
that include opportunities to work with students and teachers in Chicago
Public Schools.
CIEP 204   Seminar in Teaching IV   (1 Credit Hour)   
The Seminar in Teaching IV continues an exploration of the challenges
and rewards of teaching. The purpose of the Seminar in Teaching IV is
to provide an on-going mechanism for the development of a learning
community composed of teacher candidates and teacher educators.
Teacher candidates meet formally, as a cohort, four times during each
semester throughout the teacher preparation program. The seminar
serves to prepare future teachers through a mentoring process by
connecting teacher candidates with each other and with university
faculty and professional teacher practitioners through shared learning
experiences.
CIEP 206   Children's Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is designed to explore the genres of children's literature.
Coursework involves reading and responding to various genre and
engaging in professional book discussions to learn key strategies for
teaching.
Course equivalencies:  X-CIEP206/ENGL206   
Outcomes:
Students will read and respond to multiple texts written for the
adolescent reader, design instructional strategies to encourage reader
response in classroom settings, and create a thematic literature-based
teaching unit
CIEP 210   Early Childhood Development: Typical and Atypical   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course provides a framework for studying the process of human
development and explores the physical, cognitive, social, and emotional
development of children birth through age eight.
Outcomes:
Candidates learn milestones in each area of development in the ﬁrst eight
years of life and learn to recognize typical and atypical development in
young children
CIEP 211   Introduction to the Profession: Early Childhood/Special
Education   (3 Credit Hours)   
In this course, candidates will investigate the profession of early
childhood special education, including a historical overview of early
education, a review of theoretical program models and types of early
childhood programs, discussion of available community resources,
professional organizations, and exploration of contemporary trends and
issues in programs for children with special needs ages birth to eight.
Outcomes:
Candidates will interpret and analyze trends in early care and education,
including diversity, early intervention and special education legislation,
public policy, and educationally appropriate practice

--- Page 845 ---
876  School of Education
CIEP 229   Introductions of Educational Psychology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students will learn basic to apply psychological principles in varied
instructional settings, including theories of learning and development.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of basic educational
psychological principles and their application to learning and instruction
in the classroom
CIEP 260   Interdisciplinary Wrkshp: Sqnc Two-Intro Responsive &
Inclusive Classrooms   (1-4 Credit Hours)   
The modules in Sequence Two explore how the school is itself a
community and how the organization and environment of a school
influence student learning. exploration of the local communities
that schools are situated in. This course builds on candidates' initial
explorations of diverse learning environments and continues to develop
candidates' understanding of the School of Education's mission of
professionalism in service of social justice and the core tenets of
culturally responsive pedagogy; deepens teacher candidates' introduction
to learning and development through consideration of the importance of
healthy learning environments; builds on candidates' initial explorations
of learning and the core tenets of culturally responsive pedagogy as
candidates are introduced to backward design and Universal Design for
Learning, The sequence addresses TLLSC Enduring Understandings 1, 3,
7, and 9.
Outcomes:
TLSC 140: Teaching, Learning and Leading for Social Justice: This
module builds on candidates' initial explorations of diverse learning
environments and continues to develop candidates' understanding
of the School of Education's mission of professionalism in service of
social justice and the core tenets of culturally responsive pedagogy;
TLSC 150: Constructive Learning Environments for Diverse Students:
This module deepens teacher candidates' introduction to learning and
development through consideration of the importance of healthy learning
environments; TLSC 160: Analyzing Culturally Responsive Classroom
Instruction: This module builds on candidates' initial explorations of
learning and the core tenets of culturally responsive pedagogy as
candidates are introduced to backward design and Universal Design for
Learning
CIEP 261   Computer Application to Education I   (1 Credit Hour)   
No course description is available
CIEP 290   Fact, Fiction, or Somewhere In Between?   (3 Credit Hours)   
The course investigates misconceptions about science, math,
humanities, and social sciences through the lens of learners¿ varied
social identities, prior knowledge and lived experiences, and research
about how people learn. Students will identify misconceptions commonly
learned in K-12 classes, reflect on how those misconceptions may shape
ones¿ current understandings, and explore approaches for uncovering
and confronting misconceptions and false beliefs in productive ways. -
Effective instruction is guided by research-based principles of how people
learn - Student learning is facilitated through effective instruction and
assessment - Instruction that promotes intellectual virtues including
open-mindedness and intellectual humility, courage, and diligence can
help prepare students to better resist misinformation and also promote
empathy, caring, and responsibility
Outcomes:
Students who take this course will understand that: - Misconceptions are
derived from a variety of sources including information environments,
prior experiences, peers, culture, language, teachers¿ explanations, and
instructional materials and are often resistant to change
CIEP 304   History of Math for Teachers   (3 Credit Hours)   
No course description is availableCIEP 305   Reading Teacher Practicum   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is the culminating experience in the reading teacher
endorsement minor.
CIEP 311   Seminar in Teaching V   (1 Credit Hour)   
No course description is available
CIEP 312   Seminar in Teaching VI   (1 Credit Hour)   
The purpose of the Seminar in Teaching is to provide a mechanism
for the development of a learning community composed of teacher
candidates. The Seminar will provide an opportunity for teacher
candidates to acquire a foundational knowledge base focusing on the
tenets of good teaching and effective teaching strategies. Teacher
candidates will also have the opportunity to reflect on their personal
philosophies and beliefs about teaching, learning, and expectations about
the students they will encounter. The Seminar serves to prepare future
teachers through a mentoring process by connecting teacher candidates
with each other and with the university faculty and professional teacher
practitioners through shared learning experiences, which include
opportunities to observe and reflect on model teaching strategies and
to explore research-based concepts that focus on helping students to
become successful in their academic, personal, and social lives. The
Seminar in Teaching focuses on the development of critical thinking and
problem-solving skills that deﬁne the teacher in both urban and suburban
classrooms.
CIEP 313   Seminar in Teaching VII   (1 Credit Hour)   
No course description is available
CIEP 314   Seminar in Teaching VIII   (1 Credit Hour)   
The purpose of the Seminar in Teaching VIII is to provide a mechanism
for the development of a learning community composed of teacher
candidates. This course provides an opportunity for teacher candidates
to reﬁne and further develop a foundational knowledge base focusing
on the tenets of good teaching and effective teaching strategies.
Teacher candidates will also have the opportunity to reflect and reﬁne
their personal philosophies and beliefs about teaching, learning, and
expectations about the students they will encounter. The Seminar
serves to prepare future teachers by connecting teacher candidates
with each other and with the university faculty and professional teacher
practitioners through shared learning experiences. Teacher candidates
will be encouraged to grow professionally through membership and
participation in professional meetings and conferences.
CIEP 315   Language Development and Literacy   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course develops candidates' understanding of typical and atypical
language development and principles that govern the process.
Outcomes:
Candidates learn how quality children's literature in early childhood
programs can be used to maximize language and literacy development
through authentic group experiences and activities

--- Page 846 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 877
CIEP 327   Teaching English Language Arts in the Middle Grades   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course is based on the fundamental beliefs that people learn to
write by writing; writing is a process; writing is a tool for thinking, and
that writing is a social process. Candidates will be introduced to research
based strategies, design effective writing lessons, develop a philosophy
of teaching writing based on best practices, and recognize elements of
valid writing assessment.
Outcomes:
Teacher candidates will recognize the signiﬁcance of their role as writing
models and will recognize and create connections to literacy instruction
across the curriculum; Teacher candidates will become familiar with
developmental issues related to learning to write across grades K -12,
and issues related to struggling writers and students with culturally and
linguistically diverse backgrounds
CIEP 328   Assessment and Diagnosis of Reading Problems   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This assessment and diagnosis course provides the foundation
knowledge and experiences in reading assessment and diagnosis that
would be necessary for elementary or secondary classroom reading
teachers.
Outcomes:
Reading teachers will recognize that reading is an active and complex
process that involves skills, strategies, prior knowledge and purposes for
reading within a goal-oriented process
CIEP 329   Materials, Resources, & Strategies for Reading Teacher   (3
Credit Hours)   
The purpose of this course is to provide teacher candidates in the
reading teacher endorsement minor with an in depth knowledge and
understanding of materials, resources, and strategies available to
teachers whose primary teaching responsibility is the teaching of literacy.
CIEP 330   Typical and Atypical Development   (3 Credit Hours)   
The purpose of this course is to study the stages of psychological and
cognitive development in children and adolescents with special attention
to the similarities and differences among individuals with and without
disabilities.
Outcomes:
Students will use their knowledge of typical/atypical development to
design lessons, arrange learning environments, and select instructional
strategies to promote their students' learning and social/emotional
development
CIEP 332   School Wide Applications   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course focuses on the needs of a school as it develops and
implements a LRE plan. It examines the planning involved in the
development of comprehensive, school wide positive behavior support
programs, the application of universal design to curriculum development,
and the on-going evaluation of progress made by students for whom
intervention is needed Outcome: Students will develop and school-wide
behavior support plan.
Course equivalencies:  CIEP 341 / CIEP 331 / CIEP 332   
CIEP 333   Education of The Urban Child   (3 Credit Hours)   
No course description is available
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora   
Course equivalencies:  X-CIEP333/BWS 333   
CIEP 334   Child, Family & Community   (3 Credit Hours)   
No course description is availableCIEP 336   Child Development and Implications for Education   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Survey of theory and research relevant to the cognitive, emotional and
social development of children.
CIEP 337   Assessment of Infants and Preschool Children   (3 Credit
Hours)   
The purpose of this course is to provide an overview of assessment
practices for young children and their families.
Outcomes:
Candidates will become familiar with developmental screening,
diagnostic evaluations, play-based assessment, curriculum/criterion-
referenced assessments (including work sampling and portfolios), and
ecological assessment of social and family contexts
CIEP 338   Theories of Learning   (3 Credit Hours)   
The purpose of this course is to investigate the factors that influence
how students access, process, store, retrieve, and make use of
experiences to (1) increase their understanding of academic content;
(2) establish appropriate personal-social interactions; and (3) make
transitions into the broader community.
Outcomes:
Students will apply theory strengthened by documented research ﬁndings
to (1) design lesson plans consistent with the students' developmental
levels and ways of knowing (learning styles) and (2) develop strategies to
assess students' learning
CIEP 339   The Exceptional Child   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to the concept of exceptionality
dealing with the educational implications of atypical child growth and
development. Focus is given to the psychology and teaching of culturally
diverse and atypical children including those with learning disorders.
Outcomes:
Students will have an increased understanding and demonstrate
skills in: the connection between civil-rights issues and people with
exceptionalities, and where the ﬁeld of education has been, is now, and
is going with regard to providing supports for people with special needs,
their teachers, and family members
CIEP 340   Professional Applications in Special Education   (3 Credit
Hours)   
This course will introduce candidates to research-based, hands-on
teaching and learning tools to be implemented in the classroom.
Designed to be taken during the special education student teaching
experience, candidates will create appropriate learning tools to meet
students' abilities and needs. Course
Outcomes:
Candidates will 1) develop competencies in the collaborative and
consultative roles of special educators in the integration of individuals
with disabilities into the general curriculum as well as educational and
alternative settings; 2) reflect on their own practice to improve instruction
and guide professional growth

--- Page 847 ---
878  School of Education
CIEP 342   Transition Planning   (3 Credit Hours)   
The purpose of this course is to provide a background for transition
education services-from childhood to adulthood- for individuals with
disabilities. Students will look at legal mandates for transition planning
and service provision, as well as how the People First movement has led
to changes in our thinking and talking about people with disabilities and
the speciﬁc challenges faced by adolescents with disabilities as they
transition to adulthood. Students will examine instructional strategies
for teaching functional, occupational, and career identiﬁcation skills
in The purpose of this course is to provide a background for transition
education services-from childhood to adulthood- for individuals with
disabilities. Students will look at legal mandates for transition planning
and service provision, as well as how the People First movement has led
to changes in our thinking and talking about people with disabilities and
the speciﬁc challenges faced by adolescents with disabilities as they
transition to adulthood. Students will examine instructional strategies
for teaching functional, occupational, and career identiﬁcation skills
in secondary school and community settings. Current perspectives on
self-determination and quality of life issues as they relate to individuals
transitioning to adulthood will be introduced.
CIEP 343   Adaptive and Assistive Technology   (3 Credit Hours)   
In this course, students will learn how to make all physical and virtual
aspects of school fully accessible for their students, other fa culty, and
family members. They will have hands-on experience with a wide range
of assistive and adaptive technologies (low, medium, and high tech) and
become familiar with the A/A terminology and the most recent legislation
related to AAT .
Outcomes:
Students will be able to integrate AAT into assessment plans, the IEP
process, lesson planning and review, and daily classroom routines;
Keeping in mind the speciﬁc characteristics of individual students,
they will choose and then make use of appropriate technology to
accomplish speciﬁc instructional/academic, physical, and social/
emotional objectives
CIEP 350   Adolescent Literature   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces the languages arts education student to the
relevance and need for incorporating adolescent literature in the middle/
secondary classroom and to the development and strengthening of
literacy.
Outcomes:
Students will have broad and detailed understanding of the realities and
intellectual context of middle/secondary language arts education and the
role of adolescent literature within this context
CIEP 351   Curriculum and Teaching in the Middle School   (3 Credit
Hours)   
The purpose of the course is to help students construct a conceptual
framework within which they can effectively respond to the needs of
middle school students.
Course equivalencies:  X - CIEP 351 / CIEP 455   
Outcomes:
Students will learn the middle level philosophy and will examine how
those beliefs and values affect both teaching and learningCIEP 354   Classroom Management   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is designed to help teachers develop a classroom
environment conducive to quality instruction and optimal student
learning by helping them establish classroom procedures, rules, and
consequences; teach the social skills; unite the student teams;  and solve
behavior problems.
Outcomes:
Students will learn ways to take proactive steps to prevent many
discipline problems before they happen as well as ways they can address
those problems quickly and effectively when they do occur
CIEP 359   Teaching Reading   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces the student to the teaching and learning
processes associated with balanced literacy instruction in the elementary
school. Developmental stages of learning to read and write, interactive
teaching methods and materials are the focus of this course.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to make informed decisions regarding literacy
instruction; They will be able to apply curriculum knowledge and
instructional strategies in the development and teaching of literacy
lessons
CIEP 359L   Teaching Reading-Elementary Lab   (0 Credit Hours)   
No course description is available
CIEP 360   Interdisciplinary Workshop: Culture & Identity
TLSC 140/150/160 Rome, Italy   (3 Credit Hours)   
The modules in Sequence 2 explore how the school is itself a community
and how the organization and environment of a school influence student
learning. This sequence builds off of Sequence 1's exploration of the
local communities that schools are situated in. The sequence addresses
TLLSC Enduring Understandings 1, 3, 7, and 9.
Outcomes:
TLSC 140: Teaching, Learning and Leading for Social Justice: This
module builds on candidates' initial explorations of diverse learning
environments and continues to develop candidates' understanding
of the School of Education's mission of professionalism in service of
social justice and the core tenets of culturally responsive pedagogy;
TLSC 150: Constructive Learning Environments for Diverse Students:
This module deepens teacher candidates' introduction to learning and
development through consideration of the importance of healthy learning
environments; TLSC 160: Analyzing Culturally Responsive Classroom
Instruction: This module builds on candidates' initial explorations of
learning and the core tenets of culturally responsive pedagogy as
candidates are introduced to backward design and Universal Design for
Learning
CIEP 361   Computer Application to Education II   (2 Credit Hours)   
In this course students will become familiar with concept mapping
techniques, constructing web quests, and organizing classroom
gradebooks and records. The purpose of these activities is to prepare
students to meet the nine technology standards mandated by the Illinois
content standards for teaching.
CIEP 362   Literacy Instruction in the Content Area   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course emphasizes reading and writing instruction as it applies to
the subject areas taught in most elementary and secondary schools.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to plan lessons, create materials, and integrate the
teaching of reading/writing in content areas (language arts, mathematics,
science, social studies)
CIEP 362L   Reading & Writing Content Areas Lab   (0 Credit Hours)   
No course description is available

--- Page 848 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 879
CIEP 363   Workshop in the Individualization of Instruction   (3 Credit
Hours)   
A workshop designed to assist elementary and secondary teachers,
supervisors and administrators to implement instruction based on
individual differences in learning styles and abilities.
Outcomes:
Individualized based on student's instructional needs
CIEP 364   Classroom Assessment   (2 Credit Hours)   
This course is designed to prepare teacher students to address the
assessment and evaluation of student progress towards meeting
targeted objectives, competencies, goals and standards.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to provide an accurate report of student
achievement
CIEP 365   Health/Fitness Education   (2 Credit Hours)   
Through course readings, discussions, and assignments, issues
related to health education in K-8, ideas and resources associated
with maintaining a healthy lifestyle will be explored. The importance of
nutrition and exercise as part of wellness and prevention of disease in the
K-8 student locally & globally will frame course topics.
Outcomes:
Candidates will be able to: 1) demonstrate an understanding of human
body systems and the importance of nutrition and exercise as part of
wellness and prevention of disease; 2) Reflect on their roles as citizens
in local and global societies, in health and wellness interactions and in
advocacy roles involving health promotion for children
CIEP 366   Special Topic Seminar   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a seminar for Special Topics for SOE undergraduate
students. This seminar will allow SOE to pilot newly developed and
approved courses. This seminar will be used by SOE - ADSU, TL,
and SPSY - programs covering various educational subjects and
interdisciplinary topics.
Outcomes:
Seminar outcomes will be speciﬁc to the topic and program
CIEP 375   Theoretical Foundations of Teaching English ELL and
Bilingual   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is designed to introduce students to an understanding of the
historical, political, philosophical, socioeconomic, and educational issues
that led to the formation of ESL/BE (English as a Second Language/
Bilingual Education) educational policies, programs, and services for
culturally diverse populations.
Outcomes:
Students will understand aspects of language learning and acquisition
theories as they pertain to ESL/BE as well as contemporary issues in
linguistic and cultural revitalization through bilingual education; Students
will discuss current state and national educational legislation that
impacts English Language Learners
CIEP 376   Assessment of ELLs   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is designed to focus on recent developments and trends in
the assessment of ﬁrst and second language learning and content  area
learning for English Language Learners.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to use, analyze, and evaluate assessments in
current use in K-9 schools systems with an emphasis on the use of
assessment in planning instructionCIEP 390   Field Study in Education   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides an opportunity to work with a small group of 8th
graders from underserved Chicago public schools to improve their math
achievement.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
CIEP 398   Independent Study   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
The student and a sponsoring faculty member will determine an
advanced topic for the student to work on. Independent study of selected
topics in Education under the supervision of a faculty member.
Educational Leadership & Policy Studies
(ELPS)
ELPS 125   Introduction to Leadership Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is designed to provide an introduction to foundational theory
and perspectives related to leadership. This includes an exploration of
contemporary leadership knowledge and skills that are transferable to a
variety of disciplinary contexts.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to describe various historical and contemporary
perspectives on leadership as well as recognize critical knowledge and
skills associated with leadership practice across various disciplines
ELPS 219   History of American Education   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  HIST 101 or HIST 102   
No requirement for students with a declared major or minor in History.
This course examines the history, aims, organization, and control of
public and private schools in the United States. Emphasis is placed on
the historical examination of issues of diversity, inclusion and exclusion
as they relate to education.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate the ability to evaluate and explain the forces of
historical continuity and change in American education
ELPS 222   Foundations of Ethics and Social Justice in Leadership   (3
Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ELPS 125   
This course introduces theories of ethics and social justice as critical
frameworks through which to interpret leadership. Attention toward the
process of ethical decision-making, using critical reflection as a tool for
understanding complex leadership issues, and strategies for advancing
leadership focused on social responsibility.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate competence in applying ethical and social
justice frameworks in the interpretation and analysis of complex
leadership issues as well as in the practice of leadership across a variety
of disciplines
ELPS 223   Contextual Influences in Applied Leadership: Internship   (3
Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ELPS 125 and ELPS 222; Leadership Minor   
This online and experiential course provides a platform for students
to apply learning associated with leadership theory, ethics, and social
justice in practice through an applied internship experience. The
internship site will provide a discipline speciﬁc experience through which
to integrate and reﬁne core skills and competencies associated with
socially responsible leadership.
Outcomes:
Students will increase their capacity to engage effectively in socially
responsible leadership in a discipline speciﬁc work context

--- Page 849 ---
880  School of Education
ELPS 224   Cross Cultural Leadership: Lessons from Rome   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ELPS 125; Leadership Minor   
This course is designed to examine global and cultural influences on the
manifestation of leadership using Rome as a historical and contextual
reference point and learning laboratory. The course will examine cultural
influences in the understanding of power, authority, and social justice
as they relate to leadership and the development of cross-cultural
competence.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to identify and describe cultural and global
influences associated with power, authority, and social justice on
leadership in social contexts
ELPS 230   Globalization, Education and Childhood   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines contemporary global shifts and transformations
in how schools and other educational settings are set up and operate.
In tandem with this the course examines the experience of childhood
and notions of what it means to be a child both in terms of how this
varies culturally, socioeconomically, and regionally, as well as how these
experiences and conceptualizations are presently being transformed.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Global Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of how global
and local issues are interwoven with regard to education; Students will
be able to articulate a nuanced understanding (as regards schooling
and education) of the ways that social justice concerns are being both
advanced and hindered in our contemporary globalized world
ELPS 240   Urban Education: Policy and Practice   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces students to some of the central policy questions
currently afoot in American public education through consideration of
one particular ﬁeld of concern, Urban Education. Explores the sociological
dimensions of schooling, the important questions of how race, social
class and ethnicity impact American education, and the relationship
between resources and outcomes at the heart of arguments about
schools. Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the
ways that policy is connected to practice in urban education.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze the multiple and contested factors that
influence urban education in the US
ELPS 265   Cultural and Educational Policy Studies Internship   (3 Credit
Hours)   
The Internship in Cultural and Educational Policy Studies course
is intended to help students integrate theoretical and research
coursework with a practical ﬁeld-based experience to reflect on their own
development as professionals working in the ﬁeld of education.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students develop and reﬁne their professional skills and competencies;
Students will be able to identify key education issues domestically and/or
internationally and critically analyze them in terms of the relationship(s)
between policy and practice
ELPS 300   History of Education   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces students to the history of education in the
United States, exploring the ideologies and theoretical frameworks that
have been paramount in different historical periods and the ways they
have shaped the social, cultural, economic, and political dimensions of
educational institutions in America.ELPS 301   History of Western Education   (3 Credit Hours)   
A historical analysis of the rise and development of educational
movements, trends, institutions, and policies in the multicultural context
of American society.
Course equivalencies:  X-ELPS301/HIST302   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate a historical understanding of
the development of educational policy and schooling institutions, and
demonstrate a knowledge of the historiographic approaches and debates
in the history of education
ELPS 302   Philosophy of Education   (3 Credit Hours)   
Requirement: PHIL 130 for students admitted to Loyola University for
Fall 2012 or later. No requirement for students admitted to Loyola prior
to Fall 2012 or those with a declared major or minor in the Department
of Philosophy or Department of Political Science. Study of major
philosophical theories about educational practice, especially as these
relate to pedagogical practice, curriculum development, and the response
of schools to particular individual, community, and societal interests.
Outcomes:
The student will become adept at identifying philosophical issues
embedded in current educational practice and controversies, especially
as these relate to promoting the values of a democratic society,
accommodating the interests of the society and particular groups within
it, and the realization of social justice
ELPS 310   Leadership: Group Dynamics and a Mission Centered
Approach   (1 Credit Hour)   
This course is designed to familiarize Resident Assistants/Managers
with a variety of topics that have been formulated to assist them in
building community, developing interpersonal relationships, creating
intentional programs, and improving their crisis intervention skills. Topics
may include, but are not limited to: identity formation, counseling, ethics,
diversity, health, and current events in higher education.
Outcomes:
To inform and therefore improve students performance within university
housing through reflection exercises and solution-based problem solving
skills
ELPS 311   Student Leadership: Using Social Justice in Developmental
Models   (1 Credit Hour)   
This class will examine social justice as it relates to building
communities and creating positive interpersonal relationships between
both the Resident Assistant/Manager and hall residents as well as
among residents themselves. Topics may include, but are not limited
to: program planning, the use of technology, service learning, vocation,
career development, and the RA/RM impact on students.
Outcomes:
To inform and therefore improve students performance within university
housing through reflection exercises and solution-based problem solving
skills
ELPS 325   Leadership Studies Capstone   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ELPS 125; ELPS 222; ELPS 223; and enrollment in the
Leadership Minor   
This course will explore topics such as social change and globalization,
creative conflict resolution, the nature of power, oppression and influence,
and systemic leadership.
Outcomes:
Students will understand the role of and capacities associated with
leading personal and social transformation within their career ﬁelds and
communities

--- Page 850 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 881
ELPS 350   Finding Jesuit Jesus:Preparing Prof Life-Live Sprtual Exercise
St. Ignatius   (3 Credit Hours)   
An adapted version of the Spiritual Exercises of St. Ignatius of Loyola,
founder of the Jesuits, this 14-day course in Rome, Italy@JFRC provides
students the structured time and study to reflect more deeply on faith,
the power of God's love and relationships with others as they frame their
professional life design. Time for personal prayer, reflection, liturgies,
thematic walks and talks are embedded in this course and all of which
will help assist students in their faith journey and as they discern, plan
and prepare for a professional life. The course intends to advance
opportunity for student exploration and understanding of Jesuit history,
values and principles - what does it mean to walk, live, discern and
work, as people of Ignatius regardless of faith origin. This course is an
invitation to imagine and to plan to live a life of service regardless of
profession or career choice.
Course equivalencies:  ELPS 350/ELPS 450   
Outcomes:
To further student understanding of diversity of ideas and beliefs in
the world; To enhance student knowledge of concepts and designs of
social justice while exploring the ancient history of Rome; To better
understand Ignatian spirituality and faith in action in our global and
diverse world; To engage in service learning to better understand the
plight of refugees around the world and expand student knowledge in the
service of humanity through learning, discerning and faith; To advance
opportunity for student discernment and understanding of personal and
professional vocation; what does it mean to walk, and work as people of
and with Ignatius - regardless of faith origin
ELPS 398   Independent Study   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an independent study under the supervision of a faculty
member.
Outcomes:
The outcome for this course is an independent project, paper or other
product that demonstrates advanced knowledge of a topic
Research Methods (RMTD)
RMTD 380   Statistical Methods   (3 Credit Hours)   
This undergraduate course provides an introduction to descriptive and
inferential statistical methods used in education, psychology and the
health professions.
Course equivalencies:  RMTD380 / CPSY380   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze quantitative data using a statistical
computing package, to interpret and communicate the results of a
statistical analysis in written and oral presentations, and to understand
the assumptions and limitations of using statistical methods for analysis
Teaching, Learning & Leading (TLSC)
TLSC M42   Special Education Methods   (2 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BSEd students only   
In this context, methods to adapt the curriculum to individuali ze
instruction to meet the needs of students with special needs will be
discussed. Issues of differentiation student needs, long and short-term
planning, technology-assisted learning, and social skills curriculum will
be addressed. Students will also learn how to actively create learning
environments which promote positive learning results in general and
special curricula by modifying the learning environment, using direct
motivational and instructional interventions.TLSC 110   The Profession and Our Program (TLLSC)   (1 Credit Hour)   
This module (course) introduces teacher candidates (students) to the
profession and our program (TLLSC) with a focus on collaborative
relationships within and among schools, families, and communities. This
module (course) will expose teacher candidates (students) to speciﬁc
knowledge and skill indicators necessary for educators to embody the
dispositions of the profession.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Teacher candidates (students) will reflect on the knowledge, skills, and
dispositions of educators with regard to teaching diverse students,
the mission of Professionalism in Service of Social Justice, and the
connection between research and practice related to collaborative
relationships
TLSC 120   Bringing Language, Learning & Development Theory into
Practice   (2 Credit Hours)   
In this module, students will observe and learn key principles and stages
developmental and learning theories via clinical experiences in birth
to grade 12 settings (including infant/toddler, preschool, elementary,
middle, and high schools). The primary focus of these experiences is to
explore the ways in which physical characteristics, communication skills,
cognitive capacities, and social-emotional needs of children be used to
understand theory and inform adult-child interaction and developmentally
appropriate pedagogical practices in birth to grade 12 settings with both
typically and atypically developing children.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Through guided observation, students will explore the ways in which
social, cultural, and environmental contexts shape the development
and cognitive processing at each age, and use this knowledge to inform
recommendations for developmentally appropriate adult-child interaction
and pedagogical practices with every age range from birth through grade
12
TLSC 130   Sequence One: 130 Community Immersion   (1 Credit Hour)   
This module (course) is designed to engage teacher candidates
(students) in an authentic exploration of the inherent relationship
between P-12 schools and the surrounding community. Teacher
candidates (students) are introduced to the concepts of cultural and
social capital as they work in small groups to explore a thematic
component of these communities. Must be registered for TLSC 110 and
TLSC 120 concurrently.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Teacher candidates (students) will complete a Community Map Project,
which includes a map of community elements, concept map depicting
the relationship between elements and resources, narrative analysis of
ﬁndings, and personal reflection
TLSC 140   Teaching, Learning and Leading for Social Justice   (1 Credit
Hour)   
Co-requisites:  (TLSC 110, 120, and 130) OR CIEP 360; Restricted to All SOE
Undergraduate Majors   
Prerequisites or This module (course) builds on candidates' initial
explorations of diverse learning environments and continues to develop
candidates' understanding of the School of Education's mission of
professionalism in service of social justice and the core tenets of
culturally responsive pedagogy. Candidates will complete a self-
documentation project in which they explore their own identities and
recognize how their thinking, behavior, and being are influenced by their
own personal experiences, race/ethnicity, social class, language, religion,
age, etc.

--- Page 851 ---
882  School of Education
TLSC 150   Constructive Learning Environments For Diverse Students   (1
Credit Hour)   
Co-requisites:  (TLSC 110, 120, and 130) OR CIEP 360   
This module (course) deepens teacher candidates' introduction to
learning and development through consideration of the importance of
healthy learning environments. Candidates will complete a classroom
management self-assessment and develop a related action plan for
enhancing a constructive classroom environment. Prerequisites or
Restricted to All SOE Undergraduate Majors
TLSC 160   Analyzing Culturally-Responsive Classroom Instruction   (1
Credit Hour)   
Co-requisites:  (TLSC 110, 120, and 130) OR CIEP 360   
This module (course) builds on candidates' initial explorations of
learning and development and the core tenets of culturally responsive
pedagogy as candidates are introduced to backward design and
Universal Design for Learning. Candidates will conduct a lesson analysis
to assess the effectiveness of a lesson based on established criteria
for culturally responsive teaching. Prerequisites or Restricted to All SOE
Undergraduate Majors
TLSC 210   Educational Policy For Diverse Students   (2 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  TLSC 140, 150, and 160 with a minimum grade of "C" or
better; Restricted to All SOE Undergraduate Majors   
This module (course) speciﬁcally engages teachers in looking at the
policy related to diverse students in schools, particularly language policy
(affecting ELLs and bilingual students) and special education policy
(affecting students with special needs). Candidates will learn the policies,
laws and court cases that impact classrooms, see how educational
policies are enacted into classroom practice to support students, and
make suggestions on continued ways to improve the achievement of
students in urban classrooms and schools. Teacher candidates will
explain the role of policy in educational practice, including the role of the
teacher in advocating for change within the educational institution
TLSC 220   Individualized Assessment & Instruction for Diverse
Students   (4 Credit Hours)   
This module is speciﬁcally designed for candidates to appreciate, discern
and utilize the individual needs of students to plan instruction and
support student achievement. In this module, student achievement
is not only conceptualized as academic, but also social, emotional,
behavioral, cultural and linguistic; in this way, candidates will explicitly
focus on the multifaceted nature of planning for students with special
needs and those who have been labeled as ELL. Through the use of
case study research to collect individualized, authentic language and
literacy assessment with one student, candidates will apply learning to
the speciﬁc instructional context of a student who qualiﬁes with at least
one of the following labels: (a) student with special needs, (b) English
language learner, or (c) struggling reader.TLSC 221   Individualized Instruction and Assessment for Diverse
Learners   (2 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  TLSC 140, 150, and 160 with a minimum grade of "C" or
better; Restricted to All SOE Undergraduate Majors   
This module is designed for teacher candidates to appreciate, discern,
and utilize the individual needs of students to plan instruction and
support student achievement, particularly students with diverse learning
and behavioral needs. Through the use of case study research to conduct
individualized assessments with diverse learners, candidates will work
with students with special needs or those at risk of this being identiﬁed
as having a disability. Candidates will apply learning to the instructional
context with academically, behaviorally, culturally, cognitively, and
socially/emotionally diverse students.
Outcomes:
- Use research and evidence-based practices to design instruction
that includes the alignment of goals, objectives, assessments and
instructional strategies to meet the individual needs of students; - Use
data to drive instruction and assess teaching and learning effectiveness;
-Apply deep understanding of both content and pedagogy to provide
developmentally appropriate instruction to all students; -Hold high
expectations and build on the assets of diverse students (including,
but not limited to, race, ethnicity, culture, language, SES, immigration
status, exceptionality, ability, sexual orientation, gender, gender identity);
-Explicitly integrate the teaching of reading, writing, communication and
technology across content area; -Create and support safe and healthy
learning environments for all students
TLSC 222   Authentic Assessment and Instruction for Bilingual
Learners   (2 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  TLSC 140, 150, and 160 with a minimum grade of "C" or
better; Restricted to All SOE Undergraduate Majors   
This module is designed for teacher candidates to appreciate, discern,
and utilize the individual strengths and needs of students who speak
a language other than English to plan instruction and support student
achievement. Through the use of case study research, candidates
conduct individualized, authentic assessments that focus on cultural
backgrounds and language development of focal students. Candidates
apply their learning with bilingual learners to support language and
literacy development and acclimation to learning in the academic context
Outcomes:
Use research and evidence-based practices to design instruction
that includes the alignment of goals, objectives, assessments and
instructional strategies to meet the individual needs of students; Use
data to drive instruction and assess the effectiveness of their teaching
and students' learning; Apply deep understandings of both content and
language pedagogy to provide developmentally appropriate instruction
to students who are learning English as an added language, who may
have interrupted schooling, and/or who may have experienced trauma
as a result of their immigration experiences and/or dangerous issues in
their home country; Hold high expectations and build on the assets of
students from different cultural and linguistic backgrounds (including,
but not limited to, ethnicity, culture, language, SES, immigration status);
Integrate the teaching of language and literacy across all content areas
and in ways that use a variety of media to do; and Create and support
safe and supportive learning contexts for all students

--- Page 852 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 883
TLSC 230   Teaching Written Communication in Elementary Grade
Classrooms   (2 Credit Hours)   
This module introduces teacher candidate's (students) to instruction
in written communication across the curriculum. Candidates will learn
evidence based practices for teaching writing, responding to writing
and integrating best practices in writing instruction across content area
instruction. The role of audience and purpose across types of texts (i.e.,
opinion, expository, narrative and research) will be emphasized.
Outcomes:
Teacher candidates (students) will develop, teach, and reflect upon
content area writing lessons that address the stages of the writing
process, incorporate the use of technology and include support for
writers with diverse skills throughout the writing process
TLSC 231   Teaching Science/Writing in Elem and Middle Grades   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  TLSC 210, TLSC 221, TLSC 222, Co-requisite TLSC 232;
Minimum grade of "C"; Restricted to ELMS-BSED, SPED-BSED, BILI-BSED
majors   
This course introduces candidates (students) to the discipline and culture
of science; provides experiences that engage candidates in the teaching
and learning of science across varied school and non-school contexts;
develops knowledge and skills to teach science through an inquiry
approach and integrate writing.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Candidates will develop, implement, analyze, and reflect upon
instructional and materials that ensure rigorous, relevant, inquiry-based
science instruction is accessible to all students; Candidates complete an
authentic personal inquiry project
TLSC 232   Integrated Teaching/Learning Social Studies & Writing in
Elementary Grades   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  TLSC 210, TLSC 221, TLSC 222, Corequisite TLSC 231;
Minimum grade of "C"; Restricted to ELMS-BSED, SPED-BSED, BILI-BSED
majors   
This introduces candidates (students) to the disciplines of the social
studies; provides experiences engaging in the teaching and learning of
elementary social studies across varied school and non-school contexts;
develops knowledge and skills to teach social studies through an inquiry
approach and integrate writing.
Outcomes:
Candidates will develop, implement, analyze, and reflect upon instruction
that ensure rigorous, relevant, inquiry-based social studies instruction is
accessible to all students; Candidates complete an authentic personal
inquiry projectTLSC 235   Teaching Science and Writing in the Middle Grades
Classroom   (3 Credit Hours)   
The content of this module focuses on the Framework for K-12 Science
Education and the related Next Generation Science Standards (NGSS).
A strong emphasis will be placed on disciplinary literacy within science,
including reading comprehension strategies, facilitating scientiﬁc
discussions, and integrating writing instruction that supports student
learning. Students will engage with important science ideas, identify
high quality resources, and undergo the process of planning cohesive
storylines that could be implemented in middle grade classrooms.
Outcomes:
As a part of this module, candidates will understand that effective
educators: - Maintain and utilize global perspectives and international-
mindedness when engaging in teaching, learning and leading, including
the awareness and application of the social, cultural, inter-cultural and
linguistic facets of student achievement; - Use research and evidence-
based practices to design instruction that includes the alignment of
goals, objectives, assessments and instructional strategies to meet
the individual needs of students; - Apply deep understanding of both
content and pedagogy to provide developmentally appropriate instruction
to all students; - Explicitly integrate the teaching of reading, writing,
communication and technology across content areas
TLSC 236   Teaching Social Studies and Writing in the Middle Grades
Classroom   (3 Credit Hours)   
This sequence addresses social studies instruction with a speciﬁc focus
on middle grade classrooms. Teacher candidates will be introduced to
the ﬁeld of social studies and the disciplines within it have experiences
engaging in the teaching and learning in this ﬁeld, and speciﬁcally work to
integrate literacy in powerful and purposeful ways. Candidates will learn
culturally responsive teaching practices, choose and use high quality
texts and resources, and utilize reading comprehension and analysis
strategies as students ask essential questions that explore the important
connections between history and current events.
Outcomes:
Each sequence and module in the Teaching and Learning with Schools
and Communities Program (TLLSC) focuses on speciﬁc professional
dispositions and candidates are offered opportunities to receive feedback
on their dispositional growth; The teacher candidate commits to
appropriate professional and interpersonal behaviors in this module by:
- demonstrating professionalism and reflective practice in collaborating
with teachers, students, administrators, families, and communities to
improve achievement for all students (9N) (lB) (D4); - participating in
ongoing professional development, reading, and research in order to
deepen their knowledge and expand their repertoire of skills (90) (IB)
(D5); - valuing and utilizing the unique identities and backgrounds of
all students, families and communities as essential assets in learning
environments (9L, 9N) (IB) (D7); - demonstrating that authentic literacy
instruction is the responsibility of all teachers, across all disciplines and
grade levels (2H, 6A) (IB) (D9); - valuing and promoting curiosity, creativity,
and life-long learning in students (IB) (Dl5)

--- Page 853 ---
884  School of Education
TLSC 240   Language, Culture, and Pedagogy in Bilingual Classrooms   (3
Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  TLSC 210, TLSC 221, AND TLSC 222 (Grade "C" or better);
Restricted to BILI-BSED, and BILI-MINR   
This module deals with bilingual education, schools, classrooms, and
learners, with an emphasis on building off of students' cultural and
linguistic resources to utilize and maintain native language. In order
to accomplish these important building blocks of bilingual education,
teacher candidates will inquire into and analyze the school's approach
to family and community involvement with a speciﬁc lens on L1
maintenance and bilingualism. Candidates will engage with parents,
families, and communities to inform the analysis of the school and
classroom's alignment to language use in homes and communities.
TLSC 241   Language, Culture, and Pedagogy in Spanish Language
Classrooms   (0-3 Credit Hours)   
This module offers a cultural, linguistic, and pedagogical immersion in
a school setting to prepare teachers who will use Spanish as a medium
of instruction. Participants spend two weeks in Mexico City living in a
homestay and pairing with an elementary school teacher for a classroom
teaching experience. Teacher candidates surround themselves with the
rich cultural heritage and linguistic resources of Mexico, gaining a better
understanding of the largest group of linguistically diverse students in
Chicago and the broader United States.
TLSC 250   Developmentally Appropriate Practice with Infants/Toddlers &
Their Families   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  TLSC 210, TLSC 221, and TLSC 222 (Minimum of "C" grade);
Co-requisite: 251, 252, 253; Restricted to ECSE-BSED   
Infants-Toddlers-EI 1 is the ﬁrst of two clinically-based modules
emphasizing specialized knowledge and skills for working with children
from birth to age three in early intervention (EI) and EHS (Early Head
Start) settings. This course explore current knowledge and research
ﬁndings about high-quality, developmentally appropriate early childhood
care and education in the context of programs for infants and toddlers
(including those with special needs) and their families and is designed to
prepare future teachers to ﬁll the role of an effective early interventionist
and infant/toddler specialist.
Outcomes:
As a result of this experience (which includes components related
to assessment, intervention, work with families, and infant/toddler
development), students will demonstrate proﬁciency at designing safe,
supportive environments of nurturing care for infants and toddlers
(including those with special needs) and their families by applying the
principles of developmentally appropriate practice in curriculum design/
delivery, assessment, and interventionTLSC 251   Family-Centered Assessment and Intervention in Early
Intervention   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  TLSC 210, TLSC 221, and TLSC 222 (Minimum of "C" grade);
Co-requisite: 250, 252, 253; Restricted to ECSE-BSED   
Infants-Toddlers-EI 1 is the second of two clinically-based modules
emphasizing specialized knowledge and skills for working with
children from birth to age three in early intervention (EI) and EHS
(Early Head Start) settings. This course includes intensive clinical
experiences in EI with infants and toddlers with special needs and
their families, and is designed to complement Infants-Toddlers-EI 1
(Developmentally Appropriate Practice (DAP) with Infants/Toddlers and
their Families) in preparing future teachers to ﬁll the role of an effective
early interventionist and infant/toddler specialist.
Outcomes:
As a result of this experience which (like I-T -EI 1) includes components
related to assessment, intervention, diverse families, and infant/toddler
development, students will develop their skills in working directly with
families in designing assessment systems and interventions for infants
and toddlers with special needs that address family resources, priorities,
and needs
TLSC 252   Foundations, Settings, and Studies of Effective Early
Childhood Education   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  TLSC 210, TLSC 221, and TLSC 222 (Minimum of "C" grade);
Co-requisite: TLSC 250, TLSC 251, TLSC 253; Restricted to ECSE-BSED   
This ﬁeld-based module provides an introduction to the diverse settings
in which children birth-8 are served. Candidates will investigate the
interlaced professions of early childhood education and early childhood
special education.
Outcomes:
Students will interpret and analyze trends in early care and education
TLSC 253   Developmentally Approp Practice Assmt&Intervention Young
Children Spcl Nds   (2 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  TLSC 210, TLSC 221, and TLSC 222 (Minimum of "C" grade);
Co-requisite: TLSC 250, TLSC 251, TLSC 252; Restricted to ECSE-BSED   
This course frames sequence 4 in the TLLSC teacher preparation
program. It addresses knowledge and skills in understanding the
development of young children with special needs and the implications of
that understanding for assessment and intervention in birth to ﬁve.
Outcomes:
Candidates will develop classroom environments, curriculum,
and instructional strategies for working with infants, toddlers,
and preschoolers, as well as demonstrating mastery of authentic
assessments required for IL state credentialing
TLSC 260   Typical and A-Typical Development   (2 Credit Hours)   
This module (course) further develops and deepens
candidates' (students) understanding and application typical and a-
typical development of youth. Candidates use information about human
development to develop individualized support plans for students with
special needs.
Outcomes:
Teacher candidates (students) will reflect information related to the ways
children develop a-typically and develop a mock individualized support
plan for review

--- Page 854 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 885
TLSC 261   Signiﬁcant Disabilities and Life Planning   (2 Credit Hours)   
This module (course) further develops and deepens
candidates' (students) understanding and application of the develop
support for people with disabilities. Candidates use information regarding
special needs to identify appropriate support and intervention models.
Outcomes:
Teacher candidates (students) will apply information related to students
with signiﬁcant support needs within individualize education plans
TLSC 262   Assistive and Adaptive Technology   (2 Credit Hours)   
This module (course) further develops and deepens
candidates' (students) understanding of support for people with
disabilities. Candidates use information regarding special needs to
identify appropriate assistive and adaptive technology supports.
Outcomes:
Teacher candidates (students) will apply information related to students
with signiﬁcant support needs when identifying assistive and adaptive
technology to be incorporated within individualize education plans
TLSC 263   Transition Planning   (2 Credit Hours)   
This module (course) further develops and deepens
candidates' (students) understanding of support for people with
disabilities. Candidates use information regarding special needs to
develop transition support plans.
Outcomes:
Teacher candidates (students) will apply information related to students
with signiﬁcant support needs when supporting the development of the
transition components of individualized education plans
TLSC 300A   Professional Learning Communities   (0 Credit Hours)   
Professional learning communities (PLCs) provide the opportunity
to engage in collaboration with a community of learners - discussing
and making meaning of all learning and experiences in schools and
communities. At the close of each semester, following the completion
of the PLCs by specialty area and submission of the summative
assessments for other sequences, teacher candidates will reflect upon
their personal and professional learning during that semester. Teacher
candidates will (a) share learning from various school-based experiences,
(b) apply learning through completion of summative assessments, and
(c) synthesize learning through reflection and discussion related to EUs
and dispositions.
TLSC 300B   Professional Learning Communities   (1 Credit Hour)   
Professional learning communities (PLCs) provide the opportunity
to engage in collaboration with a community of learners - discussing
and making meaning of all learning and experiences in schools and
communities. At the close of each semester, following the completion
of the PLCs by specialty area and submission of the summative
assessments for other sequences, teacher candidates will reflect upon
their personal and professional learning during that semester. Teacher
candidates will (a) share learning from various school-based experiences,
(b) apply learning through completion of summative assessments, and
(c) synthesize learning through reflection and discussion related to EUs
and dispositions.TLSC 310   Language and Literacy for Diverse Students   (2 Credit Hours)   
This module (course) introduces teacher candidates (students) to
essential foundations in teaching reading. Emphasized will be skills
developmentally appropriate for the candidate's teaching endorsement
level including phonological awareness, phonics, vocabulary, fluency and
text comprehension. A balance of instructional practices appropriate for
a variety of narrative and informational texts will be included.
Outcomes:
Teacher candidates (students) will learn to design and teach lessons,
focusing on standards based reading skills to linguistically diverse
students, through use of research based reading strategies
TLSC 320   Using Classroom Data in a Collaborative Env to Advance
Student Achievement   (2 Credit Hours)   
This module (course) develops candidates' ability to collect, represent,
and analyze appropriate classroom data. Students will use this ability to
determine the level of objective mastery and measure student growth.
Reflection on the analysis will guide candidates' decisions regarding
instructional adjustment and individual student needs
Outcomes:
Teacher candidates will be proﬁcient in the use of data based decision
making that informs instruction and guides students' academic and
behavioral modiﬁcations
TLSC 325   Teaching Internship in Informal Education Settings   (3 Credit
Hours)   
The internship experience builds on experiences teacher candidates
have in the TLLSC program working with local museums. Candidates will
complete internship hours on site at assigned museum, working d irectly
with the museum's Ed department. In addition, they will participate
in online seminar meetings designed to make sense of the internship
experiences , digest the relevant literature and draw research to practice
connections. Develop and assess personal learning objectives following
Loyola Center for Experiential Learning protocols.
TLSC 326   Informal Science Education Seminar   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines current issues around teaching and learning in
informal science education (ISE). Students will develop and apply an
understanding of learning theories related to learning in informal science,
collaborations between informal and formal science education, issues
around access and equity, and research and evaluation related to informal
science education. Course
Outcomes:
- Describe characteristics of teaching and learning in informal science
settings; - Describe practices that support learning and development
in informal science settings; - Summarize theories and frameworks
relevant to understanding teaching, learning and development in informal
science settings; - Explain the ways in which out-of-school science
programs collaborate with and support in-school science teaching and
learning; - Explain challenges and barriers to collaboration between in
and out of school science teaching and learning; - Debate the s trengths
and challenges of particular programs and/or institutions in terms of
promoting science interest, engagement, and learning; - Critique efforts to
broaden participation in informal science and learning, including people
with physical disabilities, diverse learning needs, and from minority
backgrounds; - Summarize current and historical research and evaluation
priorities, approaches and ﬁndings related to informal science education

--- Page 855 ---
886  School of Education
TLSC 330   Discipline-Speciﬁc Literacy for Diverse Students   (2 Credit
Hours)   
This module (course) supports teacher candidates (students) in
developing their knowledge and skills in teaching and assessing literacy
in discipline speciﬁc contexts. Emphasized will be the identiﬁcation
and use of culturally responsive texts, evidence based strategies, data
based decision making skills and new literacies (technology and online
resources) designed to target all students' literacy needs, including
those with linguistically diverse backgrounds. They will be required to
collect and utilize data to teach targeted standards based reading skills
to linguistically diverse students and to utilize technology in their lesson
delivery.
Outcomes:
Teacher candidates (students) will apply understanding of literacy lesson
design, assessment and instruction in discipline speciﬁc contexts
TLSC 340   Teaching and Learning in an Area of Specialization   (2 Credit
Hours)   
This module (course) further develops and deepens
candidates' (students) understanding and application of designing
instruction in an area of specialization. Candidates use data, select
essential content, implement strategic pedagogy, and integrate
technology to meet the needs of PreK-12
Outcomes:
Teacher candidates (students) will reflect on their implementation of the
full instructional cycle and after analysis of the data generated from that
instruction will identify research that informs instruction future teaching
TLSC 350   Teaching and Learning with a Global Framework   (4 Credit
Hours)   
Teacher candidates (students) will work with PreK-12 teachers to develop
and implement a transdisciplinary/interdisciplinary curriculum unit with
a service component. This module's (course) experiences are speciﬁcally
designed to prepare candidates (students) for teaching in schools that
offer an International Baccalaureate program.
Outcomes:
Teacher candidates (students) assess their instruction using a global
framework in this module (course) and develop an action plan to improve
practice as they move into the ﬁnal phase of the teacher preparation
program
TLSC 360   Developing Rigorous and Relevant Instruction &
Assessment   (3 Credit Hours)   
This module (course) requires candidates, with increasing independence
and more limited support from a mentor teacher, to develop rigorous and
relevant instruction and assessment. Candidates will demonstrate their
ability to use individual student data to plan appropriate and relevant
instruction and assessment for all.
Outcomes:
Teacher candidates will obtain and analyze a variety of individual and
whole class data and use this data to inform their development of
differentiated and rigorous instruction and assessmentTLSC 370   Design&Implement Rigorous&Rlvnt Instrctn&Assmt: Tching
Perform Assmt Prep   (3 Credit Hours)   
This module (course) requires candidates, with increasing independence
and more limited support from a mentor teacher, to implement rigorous
and relevant instruction and assessment. Candidates will, while delivering
the instructional unit designed in Module 7.1, be required to use a
variety of assessments, provide reflection and feedback on the results
of assessment using assessment data and make adaptations in order to
improve student achievement.
Outcomes:
Teacher candidates will explain how what they have learned from the
assessment data will influence their planning and future instruction for
students

--- Page 856 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 887
TLSC 380   Tching, Lrning & Leading with Schools & Communities
Internship: Stud Tching   (6-12 Credit Hours)   
This module (course) represents the candidates' full-time student
teaching experience. Candidates will complete three of the edTPA
tasks required for certiﬁcation (edTPA: Designing Instruction Task;
edTPA: Assessing Learning Task; and edTPA: The Culminating Teaching
Experience Task) in order to document and demonstrate each candidate's
ability to effectively teach his/her subject matter. Candidates will also
engage in focused reflection on student teaching and their entire teacher
preparation program. Candidates will complete the School of Education's
Professional Practice Proﬁle (PPP) essay at the end of the module. (1C,
4L, 4N, 4Q, 5M, 5N, 5J, 8I, 8O, 8S, 9K, 9N) (IB) EU9 S7, S8; Demonstrate
understanding and proﬁciency in core concepts, constructs and working
principles from theories and research when making decisions and taking
actions related to speciﬁc TLLSC EUs and EU indicators. (1C, 2A, 2B, 2C,
2I, 2J, 2G, 3A, 3Q, 4A, 4L, 5A, 5B, 5E, 5F , 5S, 6B, 6C, 7A, 7B, 7C, 7F , 9L) (IB)
EU10 K1, K2, K3, K4, S1, S2; Demonstrate the ability to recognize and
value student diversity and the differences in how students learn and
provide instruction to accommodate such diversity. (1K, 2K, 5M, 7M, 8J)
(IB) EU11 S2, S3, S4, S6; Support and deliver instruction in cooperation
with their assigned co-teacher. (1H, 1I, 1L, 3I, 3J, 3M, 3P , 4C, 4K, 4N, 5I,
7P , 9J)(IB) EU1 S7, EU2 S8, EU4 S7; Provide a written analysis of each
observed lesson, with a focus on their ability to make content accessible,
the level of student engagement, the use of developmentally appropriate
teaching practices, and the teaching of English language learners and
students with special needs. (1H, 3J, 5H, 5K, 5M, 5P ,7Q)(IB) EU3 S10,
S11, S16, S18 EU4 S5; Reflect in writing and discussion on their ability
to deliver and adapt relevant instruction and assessments, classroom
management and professional interaction with teachers, students and
families. (5H, 5J, 9K) (IB) EU6 S12 EU2 S9; Conduct regular pre- and post-
observation conferences with Internship Coaches and Co-teachers to
evaluate personal instructional style, preparation, use of technology,
collaboration to promote learning and professional interactions to
determine their impact on barriers to student learning, student success,
self-esteem and inclusion (4K, 4N, 5K, 5M, 5N, 8I, 8J,8O, 8R,8S, 9G, 9K, 9N)
(IB) EU9 S6, S8.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Utilize research and evidence-based practices to design instruction
that includes the alignment of goals, objectives, assessments and
instructional strategies to meet the individual needs of students EU3;
Create and support safe and healthy learning environments for all
students EU9; Utilize information from theories and related research
based practices when making decisions and taking action in their
professional practice EU10; Maintain and utilize global perspectives
and international-mindedness when engaging in teaching, learning
and leading, including the awareness and application of the social,
cultural, inter-cultural and linguistic facets of student achievement
EU11; Enact principles of social justice in the school and community
by focusing on the intellectual, social and emotional development of all
students, promoting human rights, reducing inequalities, and increasing
the empowerment of society's most vulnerable groups EU1; Hold high
expectations and build on the assets of diverse students (including, but
not limited to race, ethnicity, culture, language, SES, immigration status,
exceptionality, ability, sexual orientation, gender, and gender identity)
EU7; Engage in collaborative relationships with fellow teachers, school
personnel, administrators, students, families and communities and
promote collaboration among students to ensure the academic success,
and social and emotional well-being of all students EU2; Design and
implement standards-based units and lesson plans to maximize learning
for all students by using an appropriate variety of assessments, culturally
responsive practices, multiple resources/representations and questioning
to encourage critical/high-order thinking inquiry and problem solving
based on high expectations for each student's learning and behavior
(3H, 3I, 3N, 3Q, 5I, 5L, 5M, 5Q, 5S, 7K, 7P , 8N, 9A) (IB) EU3 S2, S3, S5, S6,
S9; Use data to evaluate and monitor students' needs, instruction and
collaboration for impact on teaching and learningBilingual/Bicultural Education (BSEd)
Overview
The BSEd program in Bilingual/Bicultural Education was designed for
students who seek to become licensed bilingual teachers of elem entary-
aged children. Loyola's Bilingual/Bicultural Education program prepares
candidates to teach in two languages in the growing number of bilingual
programs in the Chicago area and across the country. Building from
candidates’ rich bilingualism, they are prepared with knowledge and
pedagogy to make a positive impact on the lives of multilingual students.
All of Loyola’s Bachelor of Science in Education (BSEd) majors complete
the Teaching, Learning, and Leading with Schools and Communities
(TLLSC) curriculum. This unique, research-based approach emphasizes
authentic practices in ﬁeld-based learning experiences in school
and community settings. These modules were designed with four
Cornerstones in mind—partnering with schools and communities,
classroom diversity, ongoing classroom experience, and participating in
professional learning communities.
Upon program completion, Bilingual/Bicultural Education majors
earn a BSEd in Bilingual/Bicultural Education. They are eligible for the
Illinois State Board of Education Professional Educator License (PEL)
in Elementary Education (grades 1 through 6), as well as the Bilingual
Education and English as Second Language (ESL) endorsements.
Graduates are also entitled to the International Baccalaureate certiﬁcate. 
All of these credentials are built into the Elementary Education major.
Related Programs
Certiﬁcate
•English as a Second Language (ESL) and Bilingual Endorsement
Certiﬁcates  (p. 896)
Combined
•Secondary Education/International Affairs (BSEd/MA)  (p. 1335 )
•Special Education/International Affairs (BSEd/MA)  (p. 1372 )
Curriculum
The Bilingual/Bicultural Education (BLBC) major includes Core Curriculum
and School of Education courses.  In addition, all majors complete
ﬁeld-based learning modules carrying a TLSC preﬁx. Each of these
types of requirements is explained in the table below. Specialized BLBC
Education sections begin in Phase Two of the program. Consult the SOE
undergraduate advisor and the Suggested Sequence of Classes table for
the speciﬁc requirements of the BLBC Education major.
Course Requirements
Code Title Hours
University Core CoursesUniversity Core requirements are typically met by taking 16 courses
across ten central areas of knowledge and inquiry. Some Core
requirements are met by taking pre-approved courses within
the School of Education: CIEP 104 (Quantitative), CIEP 206 (Tier
2 Literacy), ELPS 219 (Tier 2 Historical) and ELPS 302 (Tier 2
Philosophical). Tier 1 Literacy Core requirements are also waived for
BLBC majors. Consult the SOE undergraduate advisor and Suggested
Sequence of Classes table to identify Core requirements that apply to
each student's pathway.School of Education CIEP and ELPS courses

--- Page 857 ---
888  Bilingual/Bicultural Education (BSEd)Education degree requirements include a number of courses offered
within the School of Education and designed for all Education
majors. At times, these courses will also address a speciﬁc portion of
the Core (CIEP 206, ELPS 219, ELPS 302). Other courses address key
knowledge and instructional skills (CIEP 104, CIEP 105, CIEP 359).CIEP 104 Mathematics for Teachers I 3CIEP 105Mathematics for Teachers II3
CIEP 206 Children's Literature 3CIEP 359Teaching Reading3
ELPS 219 History of American Education 3ELPS 302Philosophy of Education3
School of Education ﬁeld-based TLSC modulesTLSC modules must be taken in order and in established groups
(called Sequences) each semester. As students move through
the TLLSC Phases, they gain extensive ﬁeld experience, as well
as knowledge and skills to effectively support elementary aged
students. Specialized modules for BLBC majors begin with Phase
Two. The TLLSC curriculum includes a one-year internship (TLSC 360,
TLSC 370, TLSC 380) under the supervision of a licensed and
experienced bilingual teacher and University supervisor. In addition,
students must enroll in Professional Learning Communities (PLCs)
each fall (TLSC 300A) and spring (TLSC 300B) and collaborate
with the others in the major. PLCs are led by a faculty member with
expertise in bilingual education. Consult the SOE undergraduate
advisor and visit the Suggested Sequence of Classes tables to learn
more about the four-year BLBC BSEd curriculum.Phase One: ExplorationTLSC 110The Profession and Our Program (TLLSC)1
TLSC 120 Bringing Language, Learning & Development
Theory into Practice2TLSC 130Sequence One: 130 Community Immersion1
TLSC 140 Teaching, Learning and Leading for Social Justice 1TLSC 150Constructive Learning Environments For Diverse
Students1
TLSC 160 Analyzing Culturally-Responsive Classroom
Instruction1TLSC 210Educational Policy For Diverse Students2
TLSC 221 Individualized Instruction and Assessment for
Diverse Learners2TLSC 222Authentic Assessment and Instruction for Bilingual
Learners2
TLSC 300A Professional Learning Communities ((4 @ 0
credits) BLBC Education majors must enroll each
fall in the TLSC 300B section that corresponds
with their major. Fall/Spring PLC credit is issued
in the spring. Students must enroll in PLCs every
semester for all four years.)0TLSC 300BProfessional Learning Communities ((4 @ 1 credit)
BLBC Education majors must enroll each spring
in the TLSC 300B section that corresponds with
their major. Students must enroll in PLCs every
semester for all four years.)1
Phase Two: ConcentrationTLSC 231Teaching Science/Writing in Elem and Middle
Grades3
TLSC 232 Integrated Teaching/Learning Social Studies &
Writing in Elementary Grades3TLSC 240Language, Culture, and Pedagogy in Bilingual
Classrooms3
TLSC 310 Language and Literacy for Diverse Students 2TLSC 320Using Classroom Data in a Collaborative Env to
Advance Student Achievement2
TLSC 330 Discipline-Speciﬁc Literacy for Diverse Students 2TLSC 340Teaching and Learning in an Area of Specialization2
TLSC 350 Teaching and Learning with a Global Framework 4Phase Three: SpecializationTLSC 360 Developing Rigorous and Relevant Instruction &
Assessment3TLSC 370Design&Implement Rigorous&Rlvnt
Instrctn&Assmt: Tching Perform Assmt Prep3TLSC 380Tching, Lrning & Leading with Schools &
Communities Internship: Stud Tching12Total Hours74
Suggested Sequence of Courses
This sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested path for
completing coursework. Bilingual/Bicultural Education majors must
consult their SOE advisor for assistance with course selection and to
ensure that all Education degree requirements are met. Note that TLSC
modules must be taken in a prescribed order. Students must complete
each sequence before moving on to the next. Major-speciﬁc CIEP courses
are linked to a sequence and must be taken within that semester.
Course Title Hours
Sequence 1
TLSC 300A Professional Learning Communities ( BLBC ) 0TLSC 110The Profession and Our Program (TLLSC)1
TLSC 120 Bringing Language, Learning &
Development Theory into Practice2TLSC 130Sequence One: 130 Community Immersion1
UCWR 110 Writing Responsibly 3CORETheological and Religious Studies Tier I3
SPAN 250 Composition & Conversation I 3UNIV 101First Year Seminar1Must required l documentation and background check prior to
program entry  Hours14
Sequence 2
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities ( BLBC ) 1TLSC 140Teaching, Learning and Leading for Social
Justice1
TLSC 150 Constructive Learning Environments For
Diverse Students1TLSC 160Analyzing Culturally-Responsive Classroom
Instruction1
CIEP 104 Mathematics for Teachers I 3CIEP 206Children's Literature ( Tier II Literary )3
SPAN 251 Composition & Conversation II 3COREHistorical Knowledge Tier I3 Hours16
Sequence 3TLSC 300AProfessional Learning Communities ( BLBC )0

--- Page 858 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 889
TLSC 210 Educational Policy For Diverse Students 2TLSC 221Individualized Instruction and Assessment
for Diverse Learners2
TLSC 222 Authentic Assessment and Instruction for
Bilingual Learners2ELPS 219History of American Education ( Tier II
Historical )3
SPAN 270 Introduction to Critical Analysis in Spanish 3COREScientiﬁc Literacy Tier I3 Hours15
Sequence 4TLSC 300BProfessional Learning Communities ( BLBC )1
CIEP 359 Teaching Reading 3CIEP 105Mathematics for Teachers II ( Core
Quantitative )3
TLSC 231 Teaching Science/Writing in Elem and
Middle Grades3TLSC 232Integrated Teaching/Learning Social
Studies & Writing in Elementary Grades3
SPAN 271 Introduction to Iberian Literature and
Culture3Recommended to take the Language Proﬁciency Test for
Transitional Bilingual Spanish from IL Licensure Testing Service All candidates must pass Elementary Education licensure test &
Language Proﬁciency Test prior to Licensure.  Hours16
Sequence 5
TLSC 300A Professional Learning Communities ( BLBC ) 0TLSC 310Language and Literacy for Diverse
Students2
TLSC 320 Using Classroom Data in a Collaborative
Env to Advance Student Achievement2TLSC 330Discipline-Speciﬁc Literacy for Diverse
Students2
TLSC 240 Language, Culture, and Pedagogy in
Bilingual Classrooms3PHIL 130Philosophy & Persons ( Tier I Philosophical )3
CORE Societal & Cultural Knowledge: Tier I 3Apply for One-Year Internship by October 1  Hours15
Sequence 6TLSC 300BProfessional Learning Communities ( BLBC )1
TLSC 340 Teaching and Learning in an Area of
Specialization2TLSC 350Teaching and Learning with a Global
Framework4
PHYS 101 Liberal Arts Physics ( Tier II Scientiﬁc ) 3PLSC 101American Politics ( Tier II Societal )3COREArtistic Knowledge3 Hours16
Sequence 7
TLSC 300A Professional Learning Communities ( BLBC ) 0TLSC 360Developing Rigorous and Relevant
Instruction & Assessment3TLSC 370 Design&Implement Rigorous&Rlvnt
Instrctn&Assmt: Tching Perform Assmt
Prep3ELPS 302Philosophy of Education ( Philosophical Tier
II)3
CORE Theological and Religious Studies Tier II 3COREEthics3Apply for May Graduation in LOCUS by October 1  Hours15
Sequence 8
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities ( BLBC ) 1TLSC 380Tching, Lrning & Leading with Schools
& Communities Internship: Stud Tching
(Engaged Learning )12All candidates must pass Elementary Education licensure test &
Language Proﬁciency Test prior to licensure.  Hours13 Total Hours120
School of Education Requirements
Undergraduate students in the School of Education must complete all
degree requirements with a grade of C or better in order to graduate and
be entitled for the Illinois State Professional Educator License (PEL).
They must also enroll in and pass PLCs each semester. In order to enroll
in TLSC modules, all students must complete required documentation
procedures, including background checks, at designated points in their
pathway and as required by ﬁeld sites. TLSC modules address the
University requirement for Engaged Learning.
Licensure Requirements
In order to be entitled for the Illinois State Professional Educator
License (PEL), students must pass the Illinois Elementary Education
licensure exam prior to their ﬁnal internship semester. Bilingual/Bicultural
Education majors must also demonstrate proﬁciency in their selected
language by passing the appropriate Language Proﬁciency test. This test
is waived for students who have the Seal of Biliteracy on ﬁle in School
of Education. Program faculty can provide more speciﬁc information on
these requirements.
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•You'll have accrued the equivalent of one year of full-time teaching
experience through all the hands-on, experiential learning
opportunities in Chicago's classrooms and community organizations,
so you will be ready to be at the head of your own classroom. With
the foundational knowledge from your Loyola education, you will
utilize theories, data, and research practices when making decisions
in your classroom and for your students and when assessing the
effectiveness of teaching on learning.

--- Page 859 ---
890  Early Childhood Special Education (BSEd)
Early Childhood Special Education
(BSEd)
The Early Childhood Special Education program is designed for any
student who is interested in working with the youngest children, whether
in general education, special education, or inclusive settings from birth to
age 8. It emphasizes inclusive, specialized teaching practices to develop
meaningful learning experiences for both typically developing children
and those with disabilities.
Upon program completion, graduates earn a BSEd in Early Childhood
Special Education. They are eligible for the Illinois State Board of
Education Professional Educator License (PEL) in ECSE, which includes
general and special education across the full range of birth to age 8. The
ECSE also includes the English as Second Language (ESL) endorsement
and three other Illinois early childhood credentials:
•The Illinois Early Intervention credential in Developmental Therapy
•Gateways Level 5 Infant/Toddler credential
•Gateways Level 5 Early Childhood credential
All of Loyola’s Bachelor of Science in Education (BSEd) students
complete the Teaching, Learning, and Leading with Schools and
Communities (TLLSC) curriculum as their foundation. For ECSE majors,
this unique, research-based approach emphasizes authentic learning
of practices through direct work with infants/toddlers, preschoolers,
and school-aged children. TLSC modules largely take place in school
and community settings and were designed with four Cornerstones in
mind—partnering with schools and communities, classroom diversity,
ongoing classroom experience, and participating in professional learning
communities. Learn more by reading through the Early Childhood Special
Education Program Viewbook .
Related Programs
Major
•Elementary Education (BSEd)  (p. 893)
•Special Education (BSEd)  (p. 909)
Minor
•Special Education Minor  (p. 912)
Curriculum
The Early Childhood Special Education (ECSE) BSEd program includes
Core Curriculum and School of Education courses, as well as ﬁeld-
based learning modules that carry a TLSC preﬁx. Each of these types
of requirements is explained in the table below. ECSE-speciﬁc sections
begin in Phase Two. Consult the SOE undergraduate advisor and the
Suggested Sequence of Classes table for complete information on the
requirements of this major pathway.Course Requirements
Code Title Hours
University Core CoursesUniversity Core requirements are typically met by taking 16 courses
across ten central areas of knowledge and inquiry. Some Core
requirements are met by taking pre-approved courses within the
ECSE major (e.g., CIEP 104 (Quantitative), CIEP 206 (Tier 2 Literacy),
ELPS 219 (Tier 2 Historical) and ELPS 302 (Tier 2 Philosophical).
Consult the SOE undergraduate advisor and Suggested Sequence of
Classes table to identify Core requirements that apply to you.School of Education CIEP and ELPS coursesYour Education degree requirements include a number of courses
offered within the School of Education and designed for all Education
majors and minors. At times, these courses will also address a
speciﬁc portion of the Core (see above). CIEP 315 and all CIEP M
courses were designed speciﬁcally for ECSE majors. These courses
are linked with speciﬁc Sequences and ﬁeld experiences and must be
taken when indicated in the Suggested Sequence of Classes table.CIEP 104 Mathematics for Teachers I 3CIEP 206Children's Literature3
CIEP 315 Language Development and Literacy 3CIEP M16K-2 Literacy Methods for EC2
CIEP M17 Early Childhood Math Methods 2CIEP M42K-2 Special Education Methods for ECSE2
CIEP M43 Special Education Methods: Infants, Toddlers and
Preschoolers3ELPS 219History of American Education3
ELPS 302 Philosophy of Education 3School of Education ﬁeld-based TLSC modulesTLSC modules must be taken in order and in established groups
(called Sequences) each semester. As students move through the
TLLSC Phases, they gain extensive ﬁeld experience, as well as
knowledge and skills for working effectively with young children and
their families. The TLLSC curriculum includes a one-year internship
(TLSC 360, TLSC 370, TLSC 380) in a preschool setting under the
supervision of a licensed and experienced ECSE teacher. In addition,
students must enroll in Professional Learning Communities (PLCs)
each fall (TLSC 300A) and spring (TLSC 300B) and collaborate with
all others in the ECSE major. PLCs are led by a faculty member
who specialized in early childhood education. Consult the SOE
undergraduate advisor and visit the Suggested Sequence of Classes
tables to learn more about the four-year ECSE curriculum.Phase One - ExplorationTLSC 110 The Profession and Our Program (TLLSC) 1TLSC 120Bringing Language, Learning & Development
Theory into Practice2
TLSC 130 Sequence One: 130 Community Immersion 1TLSC 140Teaching, Learning and Leading for Social Justice1
TLSC 150 Constructive Learning Environments For Diverse
Students1TLSC 160Analyzing Culturally-Responsive Classroom
Instruction1
TLSC 210 Educational Policy For Diverse Students 2TLSC 221Individualized Instruction and Assessment for
Diverse Learners2
TLSC 222 Authentic Assessment and Instruction for Bilingual
Learners2

--- Page 860 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 891TLSC 300AProfessional Learning Communities (ECSE majors
must enroll each fall in the TLSC 300B section
that corresponds with their major. Fall/Spring PLC
credit is issued in the spring. Students must enroll
in PLCs every semester for all four years.)0
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities (ECSE majors
must enroll each spring in the TLSC 300B section
that corresponds with their major. Students must
enroll in PLCs every semester for all four years.)1Phase Two - ConcentrationTLSC 250 Developmentally Appropriate Practice with
Infants/Toddlers & Their Families3TLSC 251Family-Centered Assessment and Intervention in
Early Intervention3
TLSC 252 Foundations, Settings, and Studies of Effective
Early Childhood Education1TLSC 253Developmentally Approp Practice
Assmt&Intervention Young Children Spcl Nds2
Phase Three - SpecializationTLSC 310Language and Literacy for Diverse Students2
TLSC 320 Using Classroom Data in a Collaborative Env to
Advance Student Achievement2TLSC 330Discipline-Speciﬁc Literacy for Diverse Students2
TLSC 340 Teaching and Learning in an Area of Specialization 2TLSC 350Teaching and Learning with a Global Framework4
TLSC 360 Developing Rigorous and Relevant Instruction &
Assessment3TLSC 370Design&Implement Rigorous&Rlvnt
Instrctn&Assmt: Tching Perform Assmt Prep3TLSC 380Tching, Lrning & Leading with Schools &
Communities Internship: Stud Tching12Total Hours77
Suggested Sequence of Courses
This sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested path for
completing coursework. ECSE majors must consult their SOE advisor
for assistance with course selection and to ensure that all Education
degree requirements are met. Note that TLSC modules must be taken in a
prescribed order. Students must complete each sequence before moving
on to the next. Major-speciﬁc CIEP courses are linked to a sequence and
must be taken within that semester.
Course Title Hours
Sequence 1
TLSC 300A Professional Learning Communities ( ECSE ) 0TLSC 110The Profession and Our Program (TLLSC)1
TLSC 120 Bringing Language, Learning &
Development Theory into Practice2TLSC 130Sequence One: 130 Community Immersion1
UCWR 110 Writing Responsibly 3COREScientiﬁc Literacy Tier I3
CORE Literary Knowledge & Experience Tier I 3UNIV 101First Year Seminar1Must submit required documentation and background check prior
to program entry  Hours14Sequence 2
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities ( ECSE ) 1TLSC 140Teaching, Learning and Leading for Social
Justice1
TLSC 150 Constructive Learning Environments For
Diverse Students1TLSC 160Analyzing Culturally-Responsive Classroom
Instruction1
CIEP 104 Mathematics for Teachers I 3CIEP 206Children's Literature ( Tier II Literary )3
CORE Historical Knowledge Tier I 3COREPhilosophical Knowledge Tier I3 Hours16
Sequence 3TLSC 300AProfessional Learning Communities ( ECSE )0
TLSC 210 Educational Policy For Diverse Students 2TLSC 221Individualized Instruction and Assessment
for Diverse Learners2
TLSC 222 Authentic Assessment and Instruction for
Bilingual Learners2ELPS 219History of American Education ( Tier II
Historical )3
CORE Theological & Religious Studies Tier I 3CORESocietal & Cultural Knowledge Tier I3 Hours15
Sequence 4TLSC 300BProfessional Learning Communities ( ECSE )1
TLSC 250 Developmentally Appropriate Practice with
Infants/Toddlers & Their Families3TLSC 251Family-Centered Assessment and
Intervention in Early Intervention3
TLSC 252 Foundations, Settings, and Studies of
Effective Early Childhood Education1TLSC 253Developmentally Approp Practice
Assmt&Intervention Young Children Spcl
Nds2
CIEP 315 Language Development and Literacy 3General Elective3 Hours16
Sequence 5TLSC 300AProfessional Learning Communities ( ECSE )0
TLSC 310 Language and Literacy for Diverse
Students2TLSC 320Using Classroom Data in a Collaborative
Env to Advance Student Achievement2
TLSC 330 Discipline-Speciﬁc Literacy for Diverse
Students2CIEP M43Special Education Methods: Infants,
Toddlers and Preschoolers3
CORE Artistic Knowledge 3COREEthics3Apply for Sequence 7-8 One-Year Internship by October 1  Hours15

--- Page 861 ---
892  Education Policy Studies Minor
Sequence 6
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities ( ECSE ) 1TLSC 340Teaching and Learning in an Area of
Specialization2
TLSC 350 Teaching and Learning with a Global
Framework4PHYS 101Liberal Arts Physics ( Tier II Scientiﬁc )3
PLSC 101 American Politics ( Tier II Societal ) 3CIEP M16K-2 Literacy Methods for EC2Take ECSE Content Exam from IL Licensure Testing Service after
Sequence 6  Hours15
Sequence 7
TLSC 300A Professional Learning Communities ( ECSE ) 0TLSC 360Developing Rigorous and Relevant
Instruction & Assessment3
TLSC 370 Design&Implement Rigorous&Rlvnt
Instrctn&Assmt: Tching Perform Assmt
Prep3ELPS 302Philosophy of Education ( Philosophical Tier
II)3
CIEP M17 Early Childhood Math Methods 2CORETheological and Religious Studies Tier II3
CIEP M42 K-2 Special Education Methods for ECSE 2Apply for May Graduation in LOCUS by October 1  Hours16
Sequence 8TLSC 300BProfessional Learning Communities ( ECSE )1
TLSC 380 Tching, Lrning & Leading with Schools
& Communities Internship: Stud Tching
(Engaged Learning )12Must have passed IL ECSE Content Exam prior to Sequence 8  Hours13 Total Hours120
School of Education Graduation Requirements
Undergraduate students in the School of Education must complete
all degree requirements with a grade of C or better.  Grades of C- or
below do not count toward degree requirements. Students must enroll
in and pass PLCs each semester. In order to enroll in TLSC modules, all
students must complete required documentation procedures, including
background checks, at designated points in their pathway and as required
by ﬁeld sites. For ECSE majors, these processes occur prior to the start of
Sequences 1, 4, and 7. TLSC modules address the University requirement
for Engaged Learning.
Licensure Requirements
In order to be entitled for the Illinois State Professional Educator License
(PEL), students must pass the Illinois Early Childhood Special Education
licensure exam prior to their ﬁnal internship semester. In order to receive
the Illinois Gateways and Early Intervention credentials, graduates must
apply to the institutions that grant them. While the ECSE BSEd program is
approved by those institutions, these credentials were developed and are
offered outside the system to educator licensure. They are not entitled
through the SOE licensure ofﬁce and may require application fees.Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•You'll have accrued the equivalent of one year of full-time teaching
experience through all the hands-on, experiential learning
opportunities in Chicago's classrooms and community organizations,
so you will be ready to be at the head of your own classroom. With
the foundational knowledge from your Loyola education, you will
utilize theories, data, and research practices when making decisions
in your classroom and for your students and when assessing the
effectiveness of teaching on learning.
Education Policy Studies Minor
Designed for future teachers, educational policymakers, school district
partner organization professionals, community organizers, and nonproﬁt
professionals, the Education Policy Studies Minor prepares students with
cross-disciplinary, ﬁeld-informed knowledge of education policy within
American and international school systems. This minor is open to all
Loyola University Chicago undergraduates.
Loyola's Educational Policy Studies Minor program introduces students
to the policies, ideas and decision-making that has created and can
create change in our educational system. This program is a great choice
for students who want to study, critically analyze, and confront systemic
equalities in our education systems. And for those who want to prepare
for work in education in a non-classroom setting, this minor is especially
useful.
Upon completion of the minor in Educational Policy Studies, graduates
will possess knowledge, skills, and professional values necessary to work
in non-classroom educational settings, including after-school programs,
nonproﬁt organizations, community-based organizations, or government
ofﬁces.
Related Programs
Major
•Elementary Education (BSEd)  (p. 893)
Minor
•Reading Teacher Minor  (p. 903)
•Special Education Minor  (p. 912)
Curriculum
This minor includes School of Education CIEP and ELPS courses, an
internship (ELPS 265), and ﬁeld-based learning modules that car ry a TLSC
preﬁx.
Course Requirements
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesELPS 302Philosophy of Education3

--- Page 862 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 893
ELPS 219 History of American Education 3ELPS 230Globalization, Education and Childhood (Offered
Spring Semester Only)3
ELPS 240 Urban Education: Policy and Practice (Offered Fall
Semester Only)3Required Field-Based InternshipELPS 265 Cultural and Educational Policy Studies Internship 3ElectivesStudents are required to complete one course from the following list
(or a substitution approved by the Program Director).3CIEP 206Children's LiteratureCIEP 315 Language Development and LiteracyCIEP 336Child Development and Implications for EducationCIEP 350 Adolescent LiteratureCIEP 360Interdisciplinary Workshop: Culture & Identity TLSC
140/150/160 Rome, ItalyCOMM 372 Special Topics: Multimedia JournalismSOCL 245Sociology of EducationRequired TLLSC Sequence 1This is a 12-week sequence of three consecutive, ﬁeld-based,
introductory teacher education course modules.Registration in
TLSC 110 The Profession and Our Program (TLLSC), TLSC 120
Bringing Language, Learning & Development Theory into Practice and
TLSC 130 Sequence One: 130 Community Immersion in the same
semester is required for this sequence.  1TLSC 110 The Profession and Our Program (TLLSC) 1TLSC 120Bringing Language, Learning & Development
Theory into Practice2TLSC 130Sequence One: 130 Community Immersion1Total Hours22
School of Education Requirements
Required Education Policy Studies Internship 
The Education Policy Studies Internship experience helps students
integrate and take action upon policy, theoretical and research
coursework with a practical ﬁeld-based experience. The internship
requires 120 hours of ﬁeld work. The internship course will meet
periodically (but not weekly) throughout the semester to support
students in their internship. Students are encouraged to begin
researching internship sites the semester before they plan to take the
internship course, and can work with the internship course instructor to
identify prospective internship sites and develop a plan along with the
site supervisor. Students are given permission to register for this course
once they have conﬁrmed an internship site in conversation with the
internship course instructor.
It is recommended that students make use of resources available through
Loyola’s Ofﬁce of Experiential Education in locating an internship site.
Possible sites for ELPS 265 Cultural and Educational Policy Studies
Internship  include, but are not limited to, nonproﬁt organizations, school-
based after school programs, community centers, education policy
institutes, and religious organizations. Within these sites, student interns
could work in the areas of educational programming, international
development, humanitarian assistance, fundraising, grant writing, policy
formation, program development, program evaluation, and advocacy.
Student interns do not primarily work as direct service providers because
this internship is intended to provide exposure to various dimensions ofeducation policy work.  Accommodations can be made for students who
would like to do their internship while studying abroad.
Suggested Sequence of Classes
Educational Policy Studies minor courses may be taken in any order; we
only require that the  ELPS 265  (https://catalog.luc.edu/search/?P=ELPS
%20265 ) Cultural and Educational Policy Studies Internship be taken
after a student has completed at least two other courses required for the
minor. TLSC modules must be taken together in a single semester.
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Learning Outcomes 
•Successful completers will possess a solid framework and
understanding of the historical, sociological, cultural, and
philosophical issues that bear on contemporary educational policy
and practice.
•Successful completers will be able to demonstrate a ﬁrm
understanding of global and local dimensions of education related
questions and problems of practice.
•Successful completers will acquire the knowledge, skills, and ﬁeld-
based experience necessary to access a professional pathway in the
ﬁeld of education to advance social justice and to advocate with and
for children and youth.
Elementary Education (BSEd)
Overview
The BSEd program in Elementary Education was designed for students
who seek to become licensed elementary school teachers. This major
focuses on laying the foundation for children’s lifelong learning and
development. Elementary majors are prepared to teach essential
knowledge and skills (including literacy, numeracy, critical thinking,
and social interaction), but also to foster children’s curiosity, creativity,
and thirst for knowledge. These students learn to create nurturing
and inclusive classroom environments where children feel valued
and supported. In the Elementary major, students will learn to tailor
their instruction to meet the diverse needs of each student, employing
innovative teaching methods to engage and inspire curiosity.
All of Loyola’s Bachelor of Science in Education (BSEd) majors complete
the Teaching, Learning, and Leading with Schools and Communities
(TLLSC) curriculum. This unique, research-based approach emphasizes
authentic practices in ﬁeld-based learning experiences in K-12 school
and community settings. These modules were designed with four
Cornerstones in mind—partnering with schools and communities,
classroom diversity, ongoing classroom experience, and participating in
professional learning communities.
Upon program completion, Elementary Education majors earn a BSEd
in Elementary Education. They are eligible for the Illinois State Board of
Education Professional Educator License (PEL) in Elementary Education
(grades 1 through 6), as well as the English as Second Language (ESL)
endorsement and the International Baccalaureate certiﬁcate.  All
credentials are built into the Elementary Education major.

--- Page 863 ---
894  Elementary Education (BSEd)
Related Programs
Major
•Early Childhood Special Education (BSEd)  (p. 890)
•Elementary Education (BSEd)  (p. 893)
Master's
•Elementary Education (MEd)  (p. 2010 )
Curriculum
The Elementary Education major includes Core Curriculum and School
of Education courses.  In addition, all Education majors complete ﬁeld-
based learning modules carrying a TLSC preﬁx. Each of these types of
requirements is explained in the table below. Elementary Education-
speciﬁc sections begin in Phase Two of the program. Consult the SOE
undergraduate advisor and the Suggested Sequence of Classes table for
the speciﬁc requirements of the Elementary Education major.
Course Requirements
Code Title Hours
University Core CoursesUniversity Core requirements are typically met by taking 16 courses
across ten central areas of knowledge and inquiry. Some Core
requirements are met by taking pre-approved courses within the
School of Education: CIEP 206 (Tier 2 Literacy), ELPS 219 (Tier 2
Historical) and ELPS 302 (Tier 2 Philosophical). Consult the SOE
undergraduate advisor and Suggested Sequence of Classes table to
identify Core requirements that apply to each student's pathway.School of Education CIEP and ELPS coursesEducation degree requirements include a number of courses offered
within the School of Education and designed for all Education
majors. At times, these courses will also address a speciﬁc portion of
the Core (CIEP 206, ELPS 219, ELPS 302). Other courses address key
knowledge and instructional skills (CIEP 104, CIEP 105, CIEP 359).CIEP 104 Mathematics for Teachers I 3CIEP 105Mathematics for Teachers II3
CIEP 206 Children's Literature 3CIEP 359Teaching Reading3
ELPS 219 History of American Education 3ELPS 302Philosophy of Education3
School of Education ﬁeld-based TLSC modulesTLSC modules must be taken in order and in established groups
(called Sequences) each semester. As students move through
the TLLSC Phases, they gain extensive ﬁeld experience, as well
as knowledge and skills to effectively support elementary aged
students. Specialized modules for Elementary majors begin with
Phase Two. The TLLSC curriculum includes a one-year internship
(TLSC 360, TLSC 370, TLSC 380) in an elementary school classroom
under the supervision of a licensed and experienced teacher
and University supervisor. In addition, students must enroll in
Professional Learning Communities (PLCs) each fall (TLSC 300A)
and spring (TLSC 300B) and collaborate with the others in the m ajor.
PLCs are led by a faculty member with expertise in elementary
education. Consult the SOE undergraduate advisor and visit the
Suggested Sequence of Classes tables to learn more about the four-
year Elementary BSEd curriculum.Phase One: ExplorationTLSC 110The Profession and Our Program (TLLSC)1TLSC 120 Bringing Language, Learning & Development
Theory into Practice2TLSC 130Sequence One: 130 Community Immersion1
TLSC 140 Teaching, Learning and Leading for Social Justice 1TLSC 150Constructive Learning Environments For Diverse
Students1
TLSC 160 Analyzing Culturally-Responsive Classroom
Instruction1TLSC 210Educational Policy For Diverse Students2
TLSC 221 Individualized Instruction and Assessment for
Diverse Learners2TLSC 222Authentic Assessment and Instruction for Bilingual
Learners2
TLSC 300A Professional Learning Communities ((4 @ 0
credits) Elementary Education majors must
enroll each fall in the TLSC 300B section that
corresponds with their major. Fall/Spring PLC
credit is issued in the spring. Students must enroll
in PLCs every semester for all four years.)0TLSC 300BProfessional Learning Communities ((4 @ 1 credit)
Elementary Education majors must enroll each
spring in the TLSC 300B section that corresponds
with their major. Students must enroll in PLCs
every semester for all four years.)1
Phase Two: ConcentrationTLSC 231Teaching Science/Writing in Elem and Middle
Grades3
TLSC 232 Integrated Teaching/Learning Social Studies &
Writing in Elementary Grades3TLSC 310Language and Literacy for Diverse Students2
TLSC 320 Using Classroom Data in a Collaborative Env to
Advance Student Achievement2TLSC 330Discipline-Speciﬁc Literacy for Diverse Students2
TLSC 340 Teaching and Learning in an Area of Specialization 2TLSC 350Teaching and Learning with a Global Framework4
Phase Three: SpecializationTLSC 360Developing Rigorous and Relevant Instruction &
Assessment3
TLSC 370 Design&Implement Rigorous&Rlvnt
Instrctn&Assmt: Tching Perform Assmt Prep3TLSC 380Tching, Lrning & Leading with Schools &
Communities Internship: Stud Tching12Total Hours71
Suggested Sequence of Courses
This sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested path for
completing coursework. Elementary Education majors must consult their
SOE advisor for assistance with course selection and to ensure that all
Education degree requirements are met. Note that TLSC modules must
be taken in a prescribed order. Students must complete each sequence
before moving on to the next. Major-speciﬁc CIEP courses are linked to a
sequence and must be taken within that semester.
Course Title Hours
Sequence 1
TLSC 300A Professional Learning Communities
(Elementary )0

--- Page 864 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 895TLSC 110The Profession and Our Program (TLLSC)1
TLSC 120 Bringing Language, Learning &
Development Theory into Practice2TLSC 130Sequence One: 130 Community Immersion1
UCWR 110 Writing Responsibly 3MATH 108Real World Modeling with Mathematics3
CORE Literary Knowledge & Experience Tier I 3UNIV 101First Year Seminar1Submit all required documentation and background check prior to
program entry  Hours14
Sequence 2
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities
(Elementary )1TLSC 140Teaching, Learning and Leading for Social
Justice1
TLSC 150 Constructive Learning Environments For
Diverse Students1TLSC 160Analyzing Culturally-Responsive Classroom
Instruction1
CIEP 104 Mathematics for Teachers I 3CIEP 206Children's Literature3
CORE Scientiﬁc Literacy Tier I 3COREHistorical Knowledge Tier I3 Hours16
Sequence 3TLSC 300AProfessional Learning Communities
(Elementary )0
TLSC 210 Educational Policy For Diverse Students 2TLSC 221Individualized Instruction and Assessment
for Diverse Learners2
TLSC 222 Authentic Assessment and Instruction for
Bilingual Learners2ELPS 219History of American Education3
CORE Theological & Religious Studies Tier I 3CORESocietal & Cultural Knowledge Tier I3 Hours15
Sequence 4TLSC 300BProfessional Learning Communities
(Elementary )1
CIEP 359 Teaching Reading 3CIEP 105Mathematics for Teachers II3
TLSC 231 Teaching Science/Writing in Elem and
Middle Grades3TLSC 232Integrated Teaching/Learning Social
Studies & Writing in Elementary Grades3
SCIENCE Earth Science Elective 3Take Elementary Content Area Test from IL Licensure Testing
Service  Hours16
Sequence 5TLSC 300AProfessional Learning Communities
(Elementary )0TLSC 310 Language and Literacy for Diverse
Students2TLSC 320Using Classroom Data in a Collaborative
Env to Advance Student Achievement2
TLSC 330 Discipline-Speciﬁc Literacy for Diverse
Students2SCIENCELife Science Elective3
CORE Artistic Knowledge 3COREEthics3Apply for One-Year Internship by October 1  Hours15
Sequence 6
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities
(Elementary )1TLSC 340Teaching and Learning in an Area of
Specialization2
TLSC 350 Teaching and Learning with a Global
Framework4PHYS 101Liberal Arts Physics3
PLSC 101 American Politics 3COREPhilosophical Knowledge Tier I3 Hours16
Sequence 7TLSC 300AProfessional Learning Communities
(Elementary )0
TLSC 360 Developing Rigorous and Relevant
Instruction & Assessment3TLSC 370Design&Implement Rigorous&Rlvnt
Instrctn&Assmt: Tching Perform Assmt
Prep3
ELPS 302 Philosophy of Education 3CORETheological and Religious Studies Tier II3
ELECTIVE General Elective 3Apply for May Graduation in LOCUS by October 1  Hours15
Sequence 8TLSC 300BProfessional Learning Communities
(Elementary )1
TLSC 380 Tching, Lrning & Leading with Schools &
Communities Internship: Stud Tching12Must have passed Elementary Content Area Test prior to
Sequence 8 student teaching  Hours13 Total Hours120
  School of Education Requirements
Undergraduate students in the School of Education must complete all
degree requirements with a grade of C or better in order to graduate and
be entitled for the Illinois State Professional Educator License (PEL).
They must also enroll in and pass PLCs each semester. In order to enroll
in TLSC modules, all students must complete required documentation
procedures, including background checks, at designated points in their
pathway and as required by ﬁeld sites. TLSC modules address the
University requirement for Engaged Learning.

--- Page 865 ---
896  English as a Second Language (ESL) and Bilingual Endorsement Ce rtiﬁcates
Licensure Requirements
In order to be entitled for the Illinois State Professional Educator License
(PEL), students must pass the Illinois Elementary Education licensure
exam prior to their ﬁnal internship semester.
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•You'll have accrued the equivalent of one year of full-time teaching
experience through all the hands-on, experiential learning
opportunities in Chicago's classrooms and community organizations,
so you will be ready to be at the head of your own classroom. With
the foundational knowledge from your Loyola education, you will
utilize theories, data, and research practices when making decisions
in your classroom and for your students and when assessing the
effectiveness of teaching on learning.
English as a Second Language
(ESL) and Bilingual Endorsement
Certiﬁcates
At Loyola University Chicago, we recognize the imperative for all
educators to have expertise to serve and support the growing number
of students labeled as English learners, also referred to as emergent
bilinguals. For this reason, the School of Education is proud to offer
multiple avenues to English as a Second Language (ESL) and bilingual
endorsements in Illinois, as well as states with reciprocity agreements.
Related Programs
Major
•Bilingual/Bicultural Education (BSEd)  (p. 887)
Minor
•English Minor  (p. 408)
Combined
•English (BA/BSED)  (p. 406)
English as a Second Language (ESL)
Endorsement
The ESL endorsement is woven into all of Loyola’s undergraduate
teacher preparation programs, including Bilingual/Bicultural Education,
Elementary Education, Secondary Education, Special Education, and
Early Childhood/Special Education. Upon program completion, graduates
are entitled to add the ESL endorsement to the Professional Educator
License (PEL) they earn through completing their major requirements.
Our teacher education programs target and integrate understandings
and practices that support multilingual students’ language development
simultaneous to learning in PK-12 settings. The ISBE requirements and
ESL/bilingual professional teaching standards required for the ESLendorsement are integrated into undergraduate coursework. Each course
in the undergraduate Education program outlines the standards and
objectives addressed to develop expertise for working with multilingual
students. The following coursework develops candidates’ understandings
and skills as an educator for this important student population:
Course Requirements
Code Title Hours
TLSC 120 Bringing Language, Learning & Development
Theory into Practice (Linguistics)2TLSC 130 /
TLSC 140 /
TLSC 160Sequence One: 130 Community Immersion (Cross-
Cultural Studies for teaching Emergent Bilingual
Students)1
TLSC 210 Educational Policy For Diverse Students
(Theoretical foundations of Teaching ESL)2TLSC 222 /
TLSC 320Authentic Assessment and Instruction for Bilingual
Learners (Assessment of Bilingual Students)2
TLSC 240 Language, Culture, and Pedagogy in Bilingual
Classrooms3TLSC 310 /
TLSC 330Language and Literacy for Diverse Students
(Methods & Materials for teaching ESL)2TLSC 340Teaching and Learning in an Area of Specialization
(Elective)2Total Hours14
Suggested Sequence of Classes for ESL Endorsement
Note that no additional courses or modules are required. All of the
requirements below are built into each Education major.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
TLSC 120 Bringing Language, Learning &
Development Theory into Practice
(Linguistics )2TLSC 130 /
TLSC 140 / TLSC 160Sequence One: 130 Community Immersion
(Cross-Cultural Studies for teaching
Emergent Bilingual Students )1 Hours3
Year 2TLSC 210Educational Policy For Diverse Students
(Theoretical foundations of Teaching ESL )2
TLSC 222 / TLSC 320 Authentic Assessment and Instruction for
Bilingual Learners ( Assessment of Bilingual
Students )2TLSC 240Language, Culture, and Pedagogy in
Bilingual Classrooms3 Hours7
Year 3TLSC 310 / TLSC 330Language and Literacy for Diverse
Students ( Methods & Materials for
teaching ESL )2TLSC 340Teaching and Learning in an Area of
Specialization ( Elective )2 Hours4 Total Hours14

--- Page 866 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 897
Bilingual Education Endorsement
The Bilingual Education endorsement is available to any teacher
education candidate (i.e., Elementary, Secondary, Early Childhood/Special
Education, Special Education) who is fluent and literate in a language
other than English.
Why Seek a Bilingual Endorsement?
•Bilingual teachers are in high demand in Chicago Public Schools
(CPS), throughout Illinois, and across the United States. Having this
endorsement will increase your marketability to all schools regardless
of your major.  
•In the Chicago Public Schools, almost 1 in 5 students are emergent
bilingual learners, with more than 110 different languages spoken by
children and their families in this school district.  
•Special education teachers who also have the bilingual endorsement
are in extremely high demand.  
•An increasing number of schools and school districts are
implementing dual language programs (a type of bilingual education
program model) in both elementary and secondary school settings.
You will learn about this program model in  TLSC 240 Language,
Culture, and Pedagogy in Bilingual Classrooms /TLSC 410 Language,
Culture and Pedagogy in Bilingual Classrooms  and gain pedagogical
knowledge and skills to be able to teach in dual language programs.
•You will increase your ability to effectively teach bilingual students,
advocate for their needs, and work with their families across grade
levels and content areas.
Course List for Bilingual Endorsement
Code Title Hours
TLSC 240 /
TLSC 410Language, Culture, and Pedagogy in Bilingual
Classrooms3
Suggested Sequence of Classes for Bilingual Endorsement
Course Title Hours
Year 2TLSC 240 / TLSC 410Language, Culture, and Pedagogy in
Bilingual Classrooms3 Hours3 Total Hours3
Additional Requirements for the Bilingual Endorsement
1.Complete 50 additional clinical hours in your bilingual target
language.  Examples include: 
•Tutoring bilingual PK-12 students using their heritage language at
one of our partner schools. 
•Tutoring children, youth, or adults at an area community
organization to support clients’ heritage language. 
2.Pass the IL Target Language Proﬁciency Test in the language for
which you are seeking the endorsement. The IL Licensure Testing
Service now offers the exam in 36 different languages.  For more
information on the exams, please review the Language Proﬁciency
Tests for an Educator License with Stipulations Endorsed as
Transitional Bilingual  section on the Illinois Licensure Testing System
(https://www.il.nesinc.com/PageView.aspx?f=GEN_Tests.html )
website.Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Learning Outcomes
The program provides candidates with:
•knowledge and skills to effectively teach English language learners
(ELLs) in the mainstream classroom and the English as a Second
Language (ESL) context
•knowledge of foundations, instruction, and assessment for teaching
ELLs in PK-12 context. 
•necessary coursework to receive ISBE ESL endorsement in order
to be highly qualiﬁed to work with the growing population of
linguistically diverse students in the state of Illinois.
Leadership Studies Minor
Leadership Studies Minor is designed as an interdisciplinary course
of study to complement a wide range of academic majors. Leadership
Studies exposes students to the theory and practice of leadership
across interdisciplinary boundaries to better prepare for professional and
personal success. Students will study diverse theories and perspectives
on leadership, examine the interplay of social justice and ethics in the
practice of leadership, and develop a deeper understanding of contextual
influences on leadership in an increasingly complex and global society.
An emphasis is placed on cultivating critical self-reflection as well as
analytical skills to enhance the application of the students' evolving
conceptualizations of leadership in organizational and career contexts.
Students will engage in an exciting internship experience and also have
the opportunity to study abroad at Loyola's John Felice Rome Center.
Leadership Studies courses are delivered online, hybrid, and also on-site
at the Rome Center for a two-week immersive study abroad opportunity
every summer.
Related Programs
Minor
•Education Policy Studies Minor  (p. 892)
•Reading Teacher Minor  (p. 903)
•Special Education Minor  (p. 912)
Curriculum 
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesELPS 125Introduction to Leadership Studies3
ELPS 222 Foundations of Ethics and Social Justice in
Leadership3ELPS 223Contextual Influences in Applied Leadership:
Internship3
ELPS 325 Leadership Studies Capstone 3Electives6Students must take two electives. One elective must be takin in the
student's primary college of enrollment.Total Hours18

--- Page 867 ---
898  Middle Grades (BSEd)
Elective Options
Code Title Hours
College of Arts & SciencesANTH 306Anthropology and Human Rights3
SOCL 121 Social Problems 3SOCL 127Social Analysis and Social Action3
SOCL 235 Communities in a Global Age 3SOCL 250Inequality in Society3
SOCL 252 Global Inequalities 3SOCL 260Power in Society3
SOCL 261 Social Movements & Social Change 3SOCL 262Movements for Social Justice: 60s & Beyond3
School of CommunicationCOMM 227Social Justice & Communication3
COMM 231 Conflict Management and Communication 3COMM 237Small Group Communication3
COMM 272 Intercultural Communication 3COMM 273Interpersonal Communication3
COMM 277 Organizational Communication 3COMM 306Environmental Advocacy3
COMM 307 Communication & Social Movements 3School of EducationCIEP 360 Interdisciplinary Workshop: Culture & Identity TLSC
140/150/160 Rome, Italy3CPSY 342Identity and Pluralism3
ELPS 224 Cross Cultural Leadership: Lessons from Rome 3School of NursingGNUR 383 Leadership for Professional Nursing Practice 3HSM 340Health Care Policy3
Quinlan School of BusinessENTR 311Social Entrepreneurship3
HRER 322 Human Resource Development 3MGMT 201Managing People and Organizations3or MGMT 201HManaging People and Organizations - Honors
MGMT 318 Organizational Development and Change 3MGMT 320Leading and Managing Teams3
MGMT 360 Values-Based Leadership 3School of Social WorkSOWK 303 Group Work Practice in Social Work: Micro/Mezzo/
Macro3SOWK 305Life Span Development, Human Behavior, Trauma,
& Theory3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
Course Title Hours
Sequence 1
Semester IELPS 125Introduction to Leadership Studies3 Hours3Semester IIELPS 222Foundations of Ethics and Social Justice in
Leadership3 Hours3
Semester IIIElective Course3 Hours3
Semester IVElective Course3 Hours3
Semester VELPS 223Contextual Influences in Applied
Leadership: Internship3 Hours3
Semester VIELPS 325Leadership Studies Capstone3 Hours3 Total Hours18
Learning Outcomes
•Graduates will demonstrate an understanding of leadership theory
along with contextual influences on the practice of leadership.
•Graduates will demonstrate an understanding of ethical
considerations in the pursuit of leadership for social justice.
•Graduates will demonstrate the capacity to apply knowledge and
skills related to leadership in their unique disciplinary contexts and
career ﬁelds.
Middle Grades (BSEd)
Loyola's Middle Grades Education program is designed for
undergraduates seeking to become licensed middle school educators.
The three Middle Grades Education pathways include a Middle Grades
Education major and an additional content area (Language Arts, Social
Studies, or Science). Mathematics is presently NOT available as a
middle grades content area. However, if a candidate is an Elementary or
Secondary Education major, they can add a Middle Grades endorsement
to their IL Professional Educator License in any of the above areas
(including Mathematics) by taking a small number of courses and
passing the appropriate Illinois content area test in the Middle Grades
content area. The SOE Undergraduate Advisor can provide details on
endorsement requirements. Middle Grades majors require a greater
number of courses in these content areas.
All of Loyola’s Bachelor of Science in Education (BSEd) students
complete the Teaching, Learning, and Leading with Schools and
Communities (TLLSC) curriculum. This approach emphasizes authentic
practices in real classrooms. TLSC modules largely take place in
school and community settings across the City of Chicago and were
designed with four Cornerstones in mind—partnering with schools and
communities, classroom diversity, ongoing classroom experience, and
participating in professional learning communities.
Upon graduation, Middle Grades Education majors earn a BSEd in
Middle Grades Education. They are eligible for the Illinois State Board
of Education Professional Educator License (PEL) that includes an
endorsement in their content area, as well as the English as a Second

--- Page 868 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 899
Language (ESL) endorsement and the International Baccalaureate (IB)
certiﬁcate.
Related Programs
Major
•Elementary Education (BSEd)  (p. 893)
•Secondary Education (BSEd)  (p. 904)
•Special Education (BSEd)  (p. 909)
Curriculum
The Middle Grades major includes Core Curriculum and School of
Education courses. In addition, all Education majors complete ﬁeld-
based learning modules carrying a TLSC preﬁx. Each of these types
of requirements is explained in the table below. Consult the SOE
undergraduate advisor and the Suggested Sequence of Classes table for
the speciﬁc requirements of the major.
The order of the TLLSC curriculum is ﬁxed; it is strongly recommended
that students refer to the Suggested Sequence of Courses  (p. 900) to
locate speciﬁc requirements of the major.
Code Title Hours
University Core coursesCore requirements are typically met by taking 16 courses across ten
central areas of knowledge and inquiry. Some Core requirements
may be met by taking pre-approved courses within the Secondary
Education major (e.g., ELPS 219 and ELPS 302). Certain Core
requirements may be met by taking the courses in your content area
major or through transfer credit. Consult the Suggested Sequence
of Classes tables below to identify the Core requirements for each
content area, and always consult with the SOE undergraduate advisor
about which Core requirements apply to your major.Content area major coursesThese courses provide you with required foundational knowledge
of the content area you plan to teach (e.g., mathematics, social
sciences, English). Content area courses are usually offered through
the College of Arts and Sciences and include students from other
majors across the University. The speciﬁc required courses within
your content area major (as well as any electives) are indicated in the
Suggested Sequence of Classes tables below. Because of the strong
concentration of this coursework in your content area, your content
area major courses typically address not only degree and licensure
requirements, but an area of the University Core as well. The SOE
undergraduate advisor will guide you through these requirements.School of Education CIEP and ELPS CoursesEducation degree requirements include a small number of courses
offered within the School of Education and designed for Education
majors. At times, these courses address a speciﬁc University Core
requirement; for example, all Secondary Education majors meet the
Philosophical Tier 2 Core requirement by taking ELPS 302. Secondary
English and Math majors must take ELPS 219 (Tier 2 Historical), and
only Secondary English majors must take CIEP 350.CIEP 305 Reading Teacher Practicum 3CIEP 327Teaching English Language Arts in the Middle
Grades3
CIEP 328 Assessment and Diagnosis of Reading Problems 3CIEP 329Materials, Resources, & Strategies for Reading
Teacher3CIEP 350 Adolescent Literature 3CIEP 351Curriculum and Teaching in the Middle School3
CIEP 359 Teaching Reading 3ELPS 219History of American Education3
ELPS 302 Philosophy of Education 3School of Education ﬁeld-based TLSC modulesTLSC modules must be taken in order and in established groups
each semester, called Sequences. As you move through the three
TLLSC Phases, you will gain extensive ﬁeld experience, as well as
knowledge and skills that will help you stand out from graduates of
other teacher education programs. You will enter the ﬁeld prepared
to work in today’s diverse classrooms with students of many
backgrounds. The TLLSC secondary curriculum includes a one-
year internship (TLSC 360, TLSC 370, TLSC 380) in a high school
under the supervision of a licensed and experienced teacher in
your content area in collaboration with a University Supervisor.
You must also enroll in Professional Learning Communities (PLCs)
each fall (TLSC 300A) and spring (TLSC 300B). In these PLCs, you
will collaborate with the other students in your major and content
area. PLCs are led by faculty experts in each content areas. To
better understand how this curriculum will look over your four-year
undergraduate experience, you should visit the Suggested Sequence
of Classes table for your content area. TLSC modules are listed below
in numerical order.Phase One - ExplorationTLSC 110 The Profession and Our Program (TLLSC) 1TLSC 120Bringing Language, Learning & Development
Theory into Practice2
TLSC 130 Sequence One: 130 Community Immersion 1TLSC 140Teaching, Learning and Leading for Social Justice1
TLSC 150 Constructive Learning Environments For Diverse
Students1TLSC 160Analyzing Culturally-Responsive Classroom
Instruction1
TLSC 210 Educational Policy For Diverse Students 2TLSC 221Individualized Instruction and Assessment for
Diverse Learners2
TLSC 222 Authentic Assessment and Instruction for Bilingual
Learners2TLSC 300AProfessional Learning Communities (Secondary
Education majors must enroll each fall in the
TLSC 300A section that corresponds with their
major/content area. Fall/Spring PLC credit is
issued in the spring. Students must enroll in PLCs
every semester.)0
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities (Secondary
Education majors must enroll each spring in the
TLSC 300B section that corresponds with their
major/content area. Students must enroll in PLCs
every semester.)1Phase Two - ConcentrationPhase Two includes one full semester (usually the fourth) of content
area coursework and no TLSC modules.TLSC 310Language and Literacy for Diverse Students2
TLSC 320 Using Classroom Data in a Collaborative Env to
Advance Student Achievement2TLSC 330Discipline-Speciﬁc Literacy for Diverse Students2

--- Page 869 ---
900  Middle Grades (BSEd)
TLSC 340 Teaching and Learning in an Area of Specialization 2TLSC 350Teaching and Learning with a Global Framework4
Phase Three - SpecializationTLSC 360Developing Rigorous and Relevant Instruction &
Assessment3
TLSC 370 Design&Implement Rigorous&Rlvnt
Instrctn&Assmt: Tching Perform Assmt Prep3TLSC 380Tching, Lrning & Leading with Schools &
Communities Internship: Stud Tching12Total Hours71
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Social Sciences Concentration 
Course Title Hours
Sequence 1
Submit required documentation and background check prior to
program entry TLSC 300AProfessional Learning Communities0
TLSC 110 The Profession and Our Program (TLLSC) 1TLSC 120Bringing Language, Learning &
Development Theory into Practice2
TLSC 130 Sequence One: 130 Community Immersion 1UCWR 110Writing Responsibly ( CORE: Scientiﬁc
Knowledge and Experience Tier 1  )3
HIST 101 
or HIST 102 
or HIST 103 
or HIST 104Culture, Power and Identity: Western Ideas
& Institutions to 17th Century ( Historical
Tier I ) 
or Culture, Power and Identity: Western
Ideas & Institutions from 17th Century 
or American Pluralism 
or Global History Since 15003
CORE: Literary Knowledge and Experience Tier I3UNIV 101First Year Seminar1 Hours14
Sequence 2
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities 1TLSC 140Teaching, Learning and Leading for Social
Justice1
TLSC 150 Constructive Learning Environments For
Diverse Students1TLSC 160Analyzing Culturally-Responsive Classroom
Instruction1
HIST 211 
or HIST 212US History to 1865: Themes & Issues 
or US History since 1865: Themes &
Issues3CIEP 350Adolescent Literature ( offered Spring only )3
SOCL 101 Society in a Global Age ( Societal Tier I ) 3CORE: Scientiﬁc Literacy Tier I3Must have completed the CPS Background Check by Sequence 2.  Hours16Sequence 3
TLSC 300A Professional Learning Communities 0TLSC 210Educational Policy For Diverse Students2
TLSC 221 Individualized Instruction and Assessment
for Diverse Learners2TLSC 222Authentic Assessment and Instruction for
Bilingual Learners2
ELPS 219 History of American Education 3CORE: Artistic Knowledge3ENVS 283 
or ANTH 104Environmental Sustainability ( Scientiﬁc Tier
II) 
or The Human Ecological Footprint3 Hours15
Sequence 4
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities 1CIEP 327Teaching English Language Arts in the
Middle Grades 13
CIEP 351 Curriculum and Teaching in the Middle
School3CIEP 359Teaching Reading3
PLSC 101 American Politics ( Societal Tier II ) 3CORE: Philosophical Knowledge Tier I3 Hours16
Sequence 5TLSC 300AProfessional Learning Communities0
TLSC 310 Language and Literacy for Diverse
Students2TLSC 320Using Classroom Data in a Collaborative
Env to Advance Student Achievement2
TLSC 330 Discipline-Speciﬁc Literacy for Diverse
Students2CIEP 328Assessment and Diagnosis of Reading
Problems3
CORE: Quantitative Knowledge 3CORE: Theological and Religious Studies Tier I3Apply for Student Teaching by October 1  Hours15
Sequence 6
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities 1TLSC 340Teaching and Learning in an Area of
Specialization2
TLSC 350 Teaching and Learning with a Global
Framework4CIEP 329Materials, Resources, & Strategies for
Reading Teacher3
ECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics 3CORE: Ethics3Take Middle Grade Social Science #204 Exam  Hours16
Sequence 7
TLSC 300A Professional Learning Communities 0TLSC 360Developing Rigorous and Relevant
Instruction & Assessment3

--- Page 870 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 901
TLSC 370 Design&Implement Rigorous&Rlvnt
Instrctn&Assmt: Tching Perform Assmt
Prep3ELPS 302Philosophy of Education3
CIEP 305 Reading Teacher Practicum 3CORE: Theological and Religious Studies Tier II3 Hours15
Sequence 8TLSC 300BProfessional Learning Communities1
TLSC 380 Tching, Lrning & Leading with Schools
& Communities Internship: Stud Tching
(Engaged Learning )12Must have passed Middle Grade Social Science Exam prior to
student teaching.  Hours13 Total Hours120
1Offered irregularly; if it is not offered during Sequence 4, students must
take in Sequence 6.
Science Concentration
Course Title Hours
Sequence 1
TLSC 300A Professional Learning Communities 0TLSC 110The Profession and Our Program (TLLSC)1
TLSC 120 Bringing Language, Learning &
Development Theory into Practice2TLSC 130Sequence One: 130 Community Immersion1
UCWR 110 Writing Responsibly 3CORE: Scientiﬁc Knowledge Tier 13
CORE: Literary Knowledge and Experience Tier 1 3UNIV 101First Year Seminar1Complete CPS Background Check  Hours14
Sequence 2
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities 1TLSC 140Teaching, Learning and Leading for Social
Justice1
TLSC 150 Constructive Learning Environments For
Diverse Students1TLSC 160Analyzing Culturally-Responsive Classroom
Instruction1
CIEP 350 Adolescent Literature ( (offered Spring
only) ) 13CORE: Philosophical Knowledge Tier I3
CORE: Historical Knowledge Tier I 3CORE: Societal and Cultural Knowledge Tier I3Must have completed the CPS Background Check by Sequence 2.  Hours16
Sequence 3
TLSC 300A Professional Learning Communities 0TLSC 210Educational Policy For Diverse Students2
TLSC 221 Individualized Instruction and Assessment
for Diverse Learners2TLSC 222Authentic Assessment and Instruction for
Bilingual Learners2
ELPS 219 History of American Education 3CORE: Quantitative Knowledge3
SCIENCE: Earth Science Course 3ENVS 223 
or ENVS 224Soil Ecology 
or Climate & Climate Change  Hours15
Sequence 4TLSC 300BProfessional Learning Communities1
CIEP 351 Curriculum and Teaching in the Middle
School3CIEP 359Teaching Reading3
CORE: Societal and Cultural Knowledge Tier II 3General Elective Course3
SCIENCE: Physical Science Course 3Select one of the following: 
PHYS 101 Liberal Arts Physics  PHYS 102Planetary and Stellar Astronomy 
PHYS 106 Physics of Music  CHEM 160Chemical Structure and Properties3 Hours19
Sequence 5TLSC 300AProfessional Learning Communities0
TLSC 310 Language and Literacy for Diverse
Students2TLSC 320Using Classroom Data in a Collaborative
Env to Advance Student Achievement2
TLSC 330 Discipline-Speciﬁc Literacy for Diverse
Students2CORE: Ethics3
SCIENCE: Biological Science Course 3Select one of the following: 
BIOL 101 General Biology I  BIOL 110Liberal Arts Biology 
ENVS 207 Plants and Civilization  ENVS 218Biodiversity & Biogeography 
SCIENCE: Science Elective (any science course) 3Apply for Student Teaching by October 1  Hours15
Sequence 6TLSC 300BProfessional Learning Communities1
TLSC 340 Teaching and Learning in an Area of
Specialization2TLSC 350Teaching and Learning with a Global
Framework4
ENVS 350A 
or ENVS 350B 
or ENVS 350C 
or ENVS 350FSolutions to Environmental Problems:
Water 
or Solutions to Environmental Problems:
Biogas 
or Solutions to Environmental
Problems: Climate Action 
or Solutions to Environmental
Problems: Food Systems3

--- Page 871 ---
902  Middle Grades (BSEd)CORE: Artistic Knowledge3
CORE: Theological and Religious Studies Tier I 3Take Middle Grade Science Content Exam #203  Hours16
Sequence 7TLSC 300AProfessional Learning Communities0
TLSC 360 Developing Rigorous and Relevant
Instruction & Assessment3TLSC 370Design&Implement Rigorous&Rlvnt
Instrctn&Assmt: Tching Perform Assmt
Prep3
ELPS 302 Philosophy of Education 3CORE: Theological and Religious Studies Tier II3General Elective Course3 Hours15
Sequence 8
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities 1TLSC 380Tching, Lrning & Leading with Schools
& Communities Internship: Stud Tching
(Engaged Learning )12Must have passed Middle Grade Science Exam prior to student
teaching.  Hours13 Total Hours123
English Language Arts Concentration 
Course Title Hours
Sequence 1
TLSC 300A Professional Learning Communities 0TLSC 110The Profession and Our Program (TLLSC)1
TLSC 120 Bringing Language, Learning &
Development Theory into Practice2TLSC 130Sequence One: 130 Community Immersion1
UCWR 110 Writing Responsibly 3ENGL 271 
or ENGL 317Exploring Poetry ( English Poetry Elective ) 
or The Writing of Poetry3
CORE: Societal and Cultural Knowledge Tier 1 3UNIV 101First Year Seminar1Complete CPS Background Check  Hours14
Sequence 2
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities 1TLSC 140Teaching, Learning and Leading for Social
Justice1
TLSC 150 Constructive Learning Environments For
Diverse Students1TLSC 160Analyzing Culturally-Responsive Classroom
Instruction1
ENGL 272 
or ENGL 326Exploring Drama ( English Drama Elective ) 
or Shakespeare: Selected Major Plays3CORE: Philosophical Knowledge Tier I3
CIEP 350 Adolescent Literature ( offered Spring only ) 3CORE: Historical Knowledge Tier I3Must have completed the CPS Background Check by Sequence 2.  Hours16
Sequence 3
TLSC 300A Professional Learning Communities 0TLSC 210Educational Policy For Diverse Students2
TLSC 221 Individualized Instruction and Assessment
for Diverse Learners2TLSC 222Authentic Assessment and Instruction for
Bilingual Learners2
ELPS 219 History of American Education 3ENGL 293Advanced Writing 13
CORE: Scientiﬁc Literacy Tier I 3CORE: Theological and Religious Studies Tier I3 Hours18
Sequence 4TLSC 300BProfessional Learning Communities1
CIEP 359 Teaching Reading 3CIEP 351Curriculum and Teaching in the Middle
School3
CIEP 327 Teaching English Language Arts in the
Middle Grades3ENGL 303Grammar: Principles & Pedagogy3CORE: Societal and Cultural Knowledge Tier II3 Hours16
Sequence 5
TLSC 300A Professional Learning Communities 0TLSC 310Language and Literacy for Diverse
Students2
TLSC 320 Using Classroom Data in a Collaborative
Env to Advance Student Achievement2TLSC 330Discipline-Speciﬁc Literacy for Diverse
Students2
CIEP 328 Assessment and Diagnosis of Reading
Problems3CORE: Scientiﬁc Literacy Tier II3
ENGL: American Literature Elective (300-level) 3CORE: Quantitative Knowledge Course3Apply for Student Teaching by October 1  Hours18
Sequence 6
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities 1TLSC 340Teaching and Learning in an Area of
Specialization2
TLSC 350 Teaching and Learning with a Global
Framework4CIEP 329Materials, Resources, & Strategies for
Reading Teacher3
ENGL 317 
or ENGL 318The Writing of Poetry ( Artistic Core ) 
or The Writing of Fiction3CORE: Theological and Religious Studies Tier II3Take Middle Grades Language Arts Exam #201  Hours16
Sequence 7
TLSC 300A Professional Learning Communities 0

--- Page 872 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 903TLSC 360Developing Rigorous and Relevant
Instruction & Assessment3
TLSC 370 Design&Implement Rigorous&Rlvnt
Instrctn&Assmt: Tching Perform Assmt
Prep3ELPS 302Philosophy of Education3
CIEP 305 Reading Teacher Practicum 3CORE: Ethics3 Hours15
Sequence 8TLSC 300BProfessional Learning Communities1
TLSC 380 Tching, Lrning & Leading with Schools
& Communities Internship: Stud Tching
(Engaged Learning )12Must have passed Middle Grades Language Arts Exam #201 prior
to student teaching.  Hours13 Total Hours126
1Topic depends on semester.
2Offered irregularly; if it is not offered during Sequence 4, students must
take in Sequence 6.
Math Concentration
This major is not accepting students at this time.
School of Education Requirements
Each Undergraduate student in the School of Education must complete
all degree requirements with a grade of C or better in order to meet degree
requirements. They must also enroll in and pass PLCs each semester.
In order to enroll in TLSC modules, all students must complete required
documentation procedures, including background checks, at designated
points in their pathway and as required by ﬁeld sites. TLSC ﬁeld-based
learning modules address the University requirement for Engaged
Learning.
Licensure Requirements
In order to be entitled for the Illinois State Professional Educator
License (PEL), students must also pass the Illinois licensure test(s) for
their secondary content area prior to their ﬁnal internship semester.
Information about licensure tests will be provided by teacher education
faculty.
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•You'll have accrued the equivalent of one year of full-time teaching
experience through all the hands-on, experiential learning
opportunities in Chicago's classrooms and community organizations,
so you will be ready to be at the head of your own classroom. With
the foundational knowledge from your Loyola education, you willutilize theories, data, and research practices when making decisions
in your classroom and for your students and when assessing the
effectiveness of teaching on learning.
Reading Teacher Minor
The Reading Teacher Minor supports educators in developing a strong
knowledge base in the area of literacy. Strong literacy skills are essential
for success across all content areas and grade levels. Our program
prepares you with the foundational knowledge of language and literacy
learning with a focus on social justice and an aim to help students
become empowered through their own literacy skills. The Reading
Teacher minor includes 19 credit hours in targeted aspects of literacy.
Upon completion of the BSEd from the School of Education, students
meeting the Reading Teacher minor requirements are eligible to receive
the Illinois State Reading Teacher Endorsement (for grades PK-12). This
endorsement can only be added to a Professional Educator license;
therefore, this minor is only open to students who are enrolled as
Education majors and seeking to become licensed educators. Students
with majors in Elementary Education, Middle Grades English Language
Arts and Social Studies, and Secondary English Education can complete
this minor within their four-year program plan. All other Education majors
will likely require additional semesters to be added to their undergraduate
program. Always consult with your SOE advisor to discuss how to
complete minor requirements.
Related Programs
Major
•Elementary Education (BSEd)  (p. 893)
Minor
•Education Policy Studies Minor  (p. 892)
Combined
•English (BA/BSED)  (p. 406)
Curriculum
The table below lists all requirements for the Reading Teacher minor.
These include School of Education courses, TLSC ﬁeld-based learning
modules, and a practicum, all of which should be taken in the order
displayed in the Suggested Sequence of Classes table. This ensures that
students meet prerequisite requirements and enroll in minor courses
intended to be aligned with particular semesters of the Education major.
The Reading minor meets the Tier 1 Literary requirement from the
University Core.
Reading Teacher minors who are majoring in Elementary Education also
enroll in a specialized Professional Learning Community (PLC), where
they collaborate each semester with all Elementary Reading Teacher
minors and a faculty expert in literacy instruction.
Course Requirements
Code Title Hours
CIEP 206 Children's Literature 3
or CIEP 350 Adolescent LiteratureCIEP 305Reading Teacher Practicum3
CIEP 328 Assessment and Diagnosis of Reading Problems 3

--- Page 873 ---
904  Secondary Education (BSEd)CIEP 329Materials, Resources, & Strategies for Reading
Teacher3
CIEP 359 Teaching Reading 13
or CIEP 327 Teaching English Language Arts in the Middle GradesTLSC 310Language and Literacy for Diverse Students2TLSC 330Discipline-Speciﬁc Literacy for Diverse Students2Total Hours19
1•Elementary Education majors should take CIEP 359.
•Middle Grades majors already take CIEP 327 and CIEP 359 as major
requirements
•Secondary Education majors should take CIEP 327
Suggested Sequence of Classes
Course Title Hours
Year 1CIEP 206 
or CIEP 350Children's Literature 
or Adolescent Literature3 Hours3
Year 2CIEP 359 
or CIEP 327Teaching Reading 1 
or Teaching English Language Arts in
the Middle Grades3 Hours3
Year 3
Fall
TLSC 310 Language and Literacy for Diverse
Students 22TLSC 330Discipline-Speciﬁc Literacy for Diverse
Students2CIEP 328Assessment and Diagnosis of Reading
Problems3 Hours7
SpringCIEP 329Materials, Resources, & Strategies for
Reading Teacher3 Hours3
Year 4
SpringCIEP 305Reading Teacher Practicum3 Hours3 Total Hours19
1•Elementary Education majors should take CIEP 359.
•Middle Grades majors already take CIEP 327 and CIEP 359 as major
requirements
•Secondary Education majors should take CIEP 327
2•Note that TLSC 310/320/330 are always taken together. TLSC 310
and 330 are aligned with minor requirements.
•Prior to enrolling in TLSC 310/320/330, Reading Minors should
pass CIEP 206/359 or CIEP 350/327School of Education Policies
All Education majors enroll each semester in the TLSC 300A (fall) and
TLSC 300B (spring) section designed for their major. Reading minors
majoring in Elementary Education enroll in a specialized section of the
PLC. PLCs meet on three Monday evenings at the end of each semester,
and fall/spring PLC credit is issued in the spring. Grades of "C-" or lower
in any course or module are not counted toward fulﬁllment of minor
requirements. In order to enroll in TLSC modules, all students must
complete required documentation procedures, including background
checks, at designated points in their pathway and as required by ﬁeld
sites.
Required Illinois Testing
In order to be entitled by ISBE for the Reading Teacher endorsement, all
minors must pass the Illinois Reading Teacher Content Exam (Exam 222)
prior to graduation.
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Learning Outcomes
Students who complete the Reading Teacher minor will:
•Demonstrate a knowledge of theories and instructional strategies to
promote language and literacy learning in schools
•Reflectively critique and implement a variety of literacy curricula,
analyzing how to meet the needs of all learners
•Evaluate evidence-based literacy instruction and reflect on the
approaches that help students grow in literacy
•Understand, select, and utilize valid and appropriate assessment
tools to screen, diagnose, and measure student literacy growth and
performance, while reflectively using the data to make instructional
decisions and evaluate interventions
•Evaluate, select, and use inclusive texts and culturally responsive
curriculum and materials to support diversity and equity in the
classroom, school, and community.
•Demonstrate effective literacy instruction in a variety of settings in
the PK-12 range (dependent on certiﬁcation range)
Secondary Education (BSEd)
Loyola's secondary education program is designed for undergraduates
seeking to become licensed high school educators. Secondary Education
pathways include both a secondary education major and a major in an
additional content area (English, History, Mathematics, Political Science,
or Psychology). To be a Science teacher, you can specialize in Biology,
Chemistry, or Physics in our dual bachelor's/master's degree program
(presently on hold).
All of Loyola’s Bachelor of Science in Education (BSEd) students
complete the Teaching, Learning, and Leading with Schools and
Communities (TLLSC) curriculum. This approach emphasizes authentic
practices in real classrooms. TLSC modules largely take place in
school and community settings across the City of Chicago, and were
designed with four Cornerstones in mind—partnering with schools and
communities, classroom diversity, ongoing classroom experience, and
participating in professional learning communities.

--- Page 874 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 905
Upon graduation, Secondary Education majors earn a BSEd in Secondary
Education, and a BSEd or BA in their content area. They are eligible for
the Illinois State Board of Education Professional Educator License
(PEL) in their secondary content area, as well as the English as a Second
Language (ESL) endorsement and the International Baccalaureate (IB)
certiﬁcate.
Related Programs
Master's
•Secondary Education (MEd)  (p. 2014 )
Combined
•Biology/Secondary Education (BS/MEd)  (p. 1020 )
•Secondary Education/International Affairs (BSEd/MA)  (p. 1335 )
Curriculum
The order of the TLLSC curriculum is ﬁxed; therefore we recommend
that you refer to the Suggested Sequence of Classes tables (further
down on this page) to locate the speciﬁc requirements of your major. The
Curriculum table below provides general information about requirements
for all Secondary Education majors.
Course Requirements
Your degree program as a Secondary Education major will include Core
Curriculum, School of Education, and content area major courses. These
requirements vary by major, and you should consult the Suggested
Sequence of Classes table for your major’s unique requirements. Each of
these types of requirements is explained in the table below.
Code Title Hours
University Core coursesCore requirements are typically met by taking 16 courses across ten
central areas of knowledge and inquiry. Some Core requirements
may be met by taking pre-approved courses within the Secondary
Education major (e.g., ELPS 219 and ELPS 302). Certain Core
requirements may be met by taking the courses in your content area
major or through transfer credit. Consult the Suggested Sequence
of Classes tables below to identify the Core requirements for each
content area, and always consult with the SOE undergraduate advisor
about which Core requirements apply to your major.Content area major coursesThese courses provide you with required foundational knowledge
of the content area you plan to teach (e.g., mathematics, social
sciences, English). Content area courses are usually offered through
the College of Arts and Sciences and include students from other
majors across the University. The speciﬁc required courses within
your content area major (as well as any electives) are indicated in the
Suggested Sequence of Classes tables below. Because of the strong
concentration of this coursework in your content area, your content
area major courses typically address not only degree and licensure
requirements, but an area of the University Core as well. The SOE
undergraduate advisor will guide you through these requirements.School of Education CIEP and ELPS CoursesEducation degree requirements include a small number of courses
offered within the School of Education and designed for Education
majors. At times, these courses address a speciﬁc University Core
requirement; for example, all Secondary Education majors meet the
Philosophical Tier 2 Core requirement by taking ELPS 302. Secondary
English and Math majors must take ELPS 219 (Tier 2 Historical), and
only Secondary English majors must take CIEP 350.CIEP 350 Adolescent Literature 3ELPS 219History of American Education3
ELPS 302 Philosophy of Education 3School of Education ﬁeld-based TLSC modulesTLSC modules must be taken in order and in established groups
each semester, called Sequences. As you move through the three
TLLSC Phases, you will gain extensive ﬁeld experience, as well as
knowledge and skills that will help you stand out from graduates of
other teacher education programs. You will enter the ﬁeld prepared
to work in today’s diverse classrooms with students of many
backgrounds. The TLLSC secondary curriculum includes a one-
year internship (TLSC 360, TLSC 370, TLSC 380) in a high school
under the supervision of a licensed and experienced teacher in
your content area in collaboration with a University Supervisor.
You must also enroll in Professional Learning Communities (PLCs)
each fall (TLSC 300A) and spring (TLSC 300B). In these PLCs, you
will collaborate with the other students in your major and content
area. PLCs are led by faculty experts in each content areas. To
better understand how this curriculum will look over your four-year
undergraduate experience, you should visit the Suggested Sequence
of Classes table for your content area. TLSC modules are listed below
in numerical order.Phase One - ExplorationTLSC 110 The Profession and Our Program (TLLSC) 1TLSC 120Bringing Language, Learning & Development
Theory into Practice2
TLSC 130 Sequence One: 130 Community Immersion 1TLSC 140Teaching, Learning and Leading for Social Justice1
TLSC 150 Constructive Learning Environments For Diverse
Students1TLSC 160Analyzing Culturally-Responsive Classroom
Instruction1
TLSC 210 Educational Policy For Diverse Students 2TLSC 221Individualized Instruction and Assessment for
Diverse Learners2
TLSC 222 Authentic Assessment and Instruction for Bilingual
Learners2TLSC 300AProfessional Learning Communities (Secondary
Education majors must enroll each fall in the
TLSC 300A section that corresponds with their
major/content area. Fall/Spring PLC credit is
issued in the spring. Students must enroll in PLCs
every semester.)0
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities (Secondary
Education majors must enroll each spring in the
TLSC 300B section that corresponds with their
major/content area. Students must enroll in PLCs
every semester.)1Phase Two - ConcentrationPhase Two includes one full semester (usually the fourth) of content
area coursework and no TLSC modules.

--- Page 875 ---
906  Secondary Education (BSEd)TLSC 310Language and Literacy for Diverse Students2
TLSC 320 Using Classroom Data in a Collaborative Env to
Advance Student Achievement2TLSC 330Discipline-Speciﬁc Literacy for Diverse Students2
TLSC 340 Teaching and Learning in an Area of Specialization 2TLSC 350Teaching and Learning with a Global Framework4
Phase Three - SpecializationTLSC 360Developing Rigorous and Relevant Instruction &
Assessment3
TLSC 370 Design&Implement Rigorous&Rlvnt
Instrctn&Assmt: Tching Perform Assmt Prep3TLSC 380Tching, Lrning & Leading with Schools &
Communities Internship: Stud Tching12Total Hours53
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
English Subject Area
Course Title Hours
Sequence 1
TLSC 300A Professional Learning Communities ( ELA) 0TLSC 110The Profession and Our Program (TLLSC)1
TLSC 120 Bringing Language, Learning &
Development Theory into Practice2TLSC 130Sequence One: 130 Community Immersion1
UCWR 110 Writing Responsibly 3COREHistorical Knowledge Tier I3
ENGL English Major Course 3UNIV 101First Year Seminar1Submit required documentation and background check prior to
program entry  Hours14
Sequence 2
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities ( ELA) 1TLSC 140Teaching, Learning and Leading for Social
Justice1
TLSC 150 Constructive Learning Environments For
Diverse Students1TLSC 160Analyzing Culturally-Responsive Classroom
Instruction1
Select one of the following: 3ENGL 317The Writing of Poetry 
ENGL 318 The Writing of Fiction  ENGL 319Writing Creative Nonﬁction ( Artistic Core ) 
ENGL English Major Course 3COREQuantitative3CORETheological & Religious Studies Tier I3 Hours16
Sequence 3
TLSC 300A Professional Learning Communities ( ELA) 0TLSC 210Educational Policy For Diverse Students2
TLSC 221 Individualized Instruction and Assessment
for Diverse Learners2TLSC 222Authentic Assessment and Instruction for
Bilingual Learners2
CIEP 350 Adolescent Literature 13ENGL 293Advanced Writing3
ELPS 219 History of American Education ( Historical
Tier II )3COREScientiﬁc Tier I3 Hours18
Sequence 4TLSC 300BProfessional Learning Communities ( ELA)1
ENGL 303 Grammar: Principles & Pedagogy 3ENGL 294Writing in/with New Media3
CORE Philosophical Knowledge Tier I 3COREScientiﬁc Tier II3CORESocietal Knowledge Tier I3 Hours16
Sequence 5
TLSC 300A Professional Learning Communities ( ELA) 0TLSC 310Language and Literacy for Diverse
Students2
TLSC 320 Using Classroom Data in a Collaborative
Env to Advance Student Achievement2TLSC 330Discipline-Speciﬁc Literacy for Diverse
Students2
CORE Societal Tier II 3ENGLEnglish Major Course3
ENGL English Major Course 3LANGForeign Language 101-level3Apply for One-Year internship by October 1  Hours18
Sequence 6
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities ( ELA) 1TLSC 340Teaching and Learning in an Area of
Specialization2
TLSC 350 Teaching and Learning with a Global
Framework4ENGLEnglish Major Course3
ENGL English Major Course 3CORETheological and Religious Studies Tier II3
LANG Foreign Language 102-level 3Take English Language Arts Content Area Test from the IL
Licensure Testing Service  Hours19
Sequence 7TLSC 300AProfessional Learning Communities ( ELA)0
TLSC 360 Developing Rigorous and Relevant
Instruction & Assessment ( WI)3TLSC 370Design&Implement Rigorous&Rlvnt
Instrctn&Assmt: Tching Perform Assmt
Prep3

--- Page 876 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 907
ELPS 302 Philosophy of Education ( Philosophical Tier
II)3ENGLEnglish Major Course3
ENGL English Major Course 3COREEthics3Apply for May Graduation in LOCUS by October 1  Hours18
Sequence 8
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities 1TLSC 380Tching, Lrning & Leading with Schools
& Communities Internship: Stud Tching
(Engaged Learning )12Must have passed English Language Arts Content Area Test prior
to Sequence 8 Student Teaching  Hours13 Total Hours132
1Secondary English section of CIEP 350 Adolescent Literature  is offered
in the Fall semester only.
English Department Requirements  (p. 404)
History Subject Area
Course Title Hours
Sequence 1
TLSC 300A Professional Learning Communities ( Social
Sciences )0TLSC 110The Profession and Our Program (TLLSC)1
TLSC 120 Bringing Language, Learning &
Development Theory into Practice2TLSC 130Sequence One: 130 Community Immersion1
UCWR 110 Writing Responsibly 3HISTHistory Major Course3
CORE Literary Knowledge & Experience Tier I 3UNIV 101First Year Seminar1Submit required documentation and background check prior to
program entry  Hours14
Sequence 2
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities ( Social
Sciences )1TLSC 140Teaching, Learning and Leading for Social
Justice1
TLSC 150 Constructive Learning Environments For
Diverse Students1TLSC 160Analyzing Culturally-Responsive Classroom
Instruction1
HIST History Major Course 3HISTHistory Major Course3
CORE Scientiﬁc Tier I 3CORETheological & Religious Studies Tier I3 Hours16
Sequence 3TLSC 300AProfessional Learning Communities ( Social
Sciences )0TLSC 210 Educational Policy For Diverse Students 2TLSC 221Individualized Instruction and Assessment
for Diverse Learners2
TLSC 222 Authentic Assessment and Instruction for
Bilingual Learners2HISTHistory Major Course3
HIST History Major Course 3COREArtistic Knowledge3
Select one of the following: 3ENVS 283Environmental Sustainability ENVS 218Biodiversity & Biogeography ( Tier II
Scientiﬁc )  Hours18
Sequence 4
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities ( Social
Sciences )1HISTHistory Major Course3
HIST History Major Course 3COREPhilosophical Knowledge Tier I3
CORE Quantitative Analysis 3SOCL 101Society in a Global Age3LANGForeign Language 101-level3 Hours19
Sequence 5
TLSC 300A Professional Learning Communities ( Social
Sciences )0TLSC 310Language and Literacy for Diverse
Students2
TLSC 320 Using Classroom Data in a Collaborative
Env to Advance Student Achievement2TLSC 330Discipline-Speciﬁc Literacy for Diverse
Students2
PLSC 101 American Politics ( Tier II Societal ) 3HIST 299Historical Methods ( WI)3
HIST History Major Course 3LANGForeign Language 102-level3Apply for One-Year Internship by October 1  Hours18
Sequence 6
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities ( Social
Sciences )1TLSC 340Teaching and Learning in an Area of
Specialization2
TLSC 350 Teaching and Learning with a Global
Framework4HISTHistory Major Course3
CORE Theological and Religious Studies Tier II 3COREEthics3Take Content Area Test in Social Science: History through the IL
Licensure Testing Service  Hours16
Sequence 7
TLSC 300A Professional Learning Communities ( Social
Sciences )0

--- Page 877 ---
908  Secondary Education (BSEd)TLSC 360Developing Rigorous and Relevant
Instruction & Assessment ( Writing
Intensive )3
TLSC 370 Design&Implement Rigorous&Rlvnt
Instrctn&Assmt: Tching Perform Assmt
Prep3ELPS 302Philosophy of Education ( Philosophical Tier
II)3
HIST History Major Course 3CORELiterary Tier II3
ECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics 3Apply for May Graduation in LOCUS by October 1  Hours18
Sequence 8TLSC 300BProfessional Learning Communities ( Social
Sciences )1
TLSC 380 Tching, Lrning & Leading with Schools
& Communities Internship: Stud Tching
(Engaged Learning )12HIST 398History Internship3Must have passed IL Content Area Exam prior to Sequence 8
Student Teaching  Hours16 Total Hours135
History Department Requirements  (p. 503)
Mathematics Subject Area
Course Title Hours
Sequence 1
TLSC 300A Professional Learning Communities ( Math
Science )0TLSC 110The Profession and Our Program (TLLSC)1
TLSC 120 Bringing Language, Learning &
Development Theory into Practice2TLSC 130Sequence One: 130 Community Immersion1
UCWR 110 Writing Responsibly 3MATH 161Calculus I4
CORE Literary Knowledge & Experience Tier I 3UNIV 101First Year Seminar1Submit required documentation and background check prior to
program entry  Hours15
Sequence 2
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities ( Math
Science )1TLSC 140Teaching, Learning and Leading for Social
Justice1
TLSC 150 Constructive Learning Environments For
Diverse Students1TLSC 160Analyzing Culturally-Responsive Classroom
Instruction1
MATH 162 Calculus II 4COMP 170Introduction to Object-Oriented
Programming3
CORE Scientiﬁc Tier I 3CORETheological & Religious Studies Tier I3 Hours17
Sequence 3TLSC 300AProfessional Learning Communities ( Math
Science )0
TLSC 210 Educational Policy For Diverse Students 2TLSC 221Individualized Instruction and Assessment
for Diverse Learners2
TLSC 222 Authentic Assessment and Instruction for
Bilingual Learners2MATH 212Linear Algebra3
MATH 201 Introduction to Discrete Mathematics &
Number Theory3ELPS 219History of American Education ( Historical
Tier II )3COREScientiﬁc Tier II3 Hours18
Sequence 4
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities ( Math
Science )1MATH 263Multivariable Calculus4
Select one of the following: 3MATH 318Combinatorics 1 
STAT 203 Introduction to Probability & Statistics  COREPhilosophical Knowledge Tier I3
CORE Historical Knowledge Tier I 3CORESocietal Knowledge Tier I3COREArtistic Knowledge3 Hours20
Sequence 5
TLSC 300A Professional Learning Communities ( Math
Science )0TLSC 310Language and Literacy for Diverse
Students2
TLSC 320 Using Classroom Data in a Collaborative
Env to Advance Student Achievement2TLSC 330Discipline-Speciﬁc Literacy for Diverse
Students2
CORE Societal Tier II 3Select one of the following:3
MATH 301 History of Mathematics  MATH 344Geometry 2 
MATH 360 Introduction to Game Theory 3LANGForeign Language 101-level3Apply for One-Year Internship by October 1  Hours18
Sequence 6
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities ( Math
Science )1TLSC 340Teaching and Learning in an Area of
Specialization2
TLSC 350 Teaching and Learning with a Global
Framework4Select one of the following:3

--- Page 878 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 909
MATH 318 Combinatorics 1 STAT 203Introduction to Probability & Statistics 
MATH 313 Abstract Algebra 3CORETheological and Religious Studies Tier II3
LANG Foreign Language 102-level 3Take IL Content Area Test in Mathematics through the IL
Licensure Testing Service  Hours19
Sequence 7TLSC 300AProfessional Learning Communities ( Math
Science )0
TLSC 360 Developing Rigorous and Relevant
Instruction & Assessment ( WI)3TLSC 370Design&Implement Rigorous&Rlvnt
Instrctn&Assmt: Tching Perform Assmt
Prep3
ELPS 302 Philosophy of Education ( Philosophical Tier
II)3Select one of the following:3
MATH 301 History of Mathematics  MATH 344Geometry 2 
CORE Literary Tier II 3COREEthics3Apply for May Graduation in LOCUS by October 1  Hours18
Sequence 8
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities ( Math
Science )1TLSC 380Tching, Lrning & Leading with Schools
& Communities Internship: Stud Tching
(Engaged Learning) )12Must have passed Mathematics Content Area Test prior to
Sequence 8 Student Teaching  Hours13 Total Hours138
1MATH 318 Combinatorics  is offered every two years. If offered this
term, you must take it.
2MATH 301 History of Mathematics  and MATH 344 Geometry  are
offered during alternative fall semesters.
Mathematics Department Requirements  (p. 532)
Political Science Subject Area
Political Science Department Requirements  (p. 638)
Psychology Subject Area
Psychology Department Requirements  (p. 650)
School of Education Requirements
Each Undergraduate student in the School of Education must complete
all degree requirements with a grade of C or better in order to meet degree
requirements. They must also enroll in and pass PLCs each semester.
In order to enroll in TLSC modules, all students must complete required
documentation procedures, including background checks, at designated
points in their pathway and as required by ﬁeld sites. TLSC ﬁeld-basedlearning modules address the University requirement for Engaged
Learning.
Licensure Requirements
In order to be entitled for the Illinois State Professional Educator
License (PEL), students must also pass the Illinois licensure test(s) for
their secondary content area prior to their ﬁnal internship semester.
Information about licensure tests will be provided by teacher education
faculty.
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•You'll have accrued the equivalent of one year of full-time teaching
experience through all the hands-on, experiential learning
opportunities in Chicago's classrooms and community organizations,
so you will be ready to be at the head of your own classroom. With
the foundational knowledge from your Loyola education, you will
utilize theories, data, and research practices when making decisions
in your classroom and for your students and when assessing the
effectiveness of teaching on learning. 
Special Education (BSEd)
The BSEd in Special Education is designed for students who seek to
become licensed educators of children with disabilities. The SPED major
emphasizes skills and strategies to support students with a variety of
academic, social, and behavioral needs, from ages 3 to 21. Preparation
focuses on knowledge and skills to create supports and programming
that prevent special education students from being overlooked or falling
behind and enable them to develop to their fullest potential.
All of Loyola’s Bachelor of Science in Education (BSEd) majors complete
the Teaching, Learning, and Leading with Schools and Communities
(TLLSC) curriculum. This unique, research-based approach emphasizes
authentic practices in ﬁeld-based learning experiences in K-12 school
and community settings. These modules  were designed with four
Cornerstones in mind—partnering with schools and communities,
classroom diversity, ongoing classroom experience, and participating in
professional learning communities.
Upon program completion, Special Education majors earn a BSEd
in Special Education. They are eligible for the Illinois State Board of
Education Professional Educator License (PEL) in Special Education
(ages 3 to 21), as well as the English as Second Language (ESL)
endorsement.  By adding two courses to their pathway, SPED majors
can also be entitled for an endorsement to teach Elementary Education
(grades 1 through 6), enabling them to work as both a special education
and elementary education teacher.
Related Programs
Major
•Early Childhood Special Education (BSEd)  (p. 890)

--- Page 879 ---
910  Special Education (BSEd)
Minor
•Special Education Minor  (p. 912)
Combined
•Special Education/International Affairs (BSEd/MA)  (p. 1372 )
Curriculum
The Special Education (SPED) major includes Core Curriculum and School
of Education courses.  In addition, all Education majors complete ﬁeld-
based learning modules carrying a TLSC preﬁx. Each of these types of
requirements is explained in the table below. SPED-speciﬁc sections
begin in Phase Two of the program. Consult the SOE undergraduate
advisor and the Suggested Sequence of Classes table for the speciﬁc
requirements of the SPED major.
Course Requirements
Code Title Hours
University Core CoursesUniversity Core requirements are typically met by taking 16 courses
across ten central areas of knowledge and inquiry. Some Core
requirements are met by taking pre-approved courses within
the School of Education: CIEP 104 (Quantitative), CIEP 206 (Tier
2 Literacy), ELPS 219 (Tier 2 Historical) and ELPS 302 (Tier 2
Philosophical). Consult the SOE undergraduate advisor and
Suggested Sequence of Classes table to identify Core requirements
that apply to each student's pathway.School of Education CIEP and ELPS coursesEducation degree requirements include a number of courses offered
within the School of Education and designed for all Education
majors. At times, these courses will also address a speciﬁc portion
of the Core (CIEP 104, CIEP 206, ELPS 219, ELPS 302). CIEP 332 is a
course designed speciﬁcally for SPED majors.CIEP 104 Mathematics for Teachers I 3CIEP 206Children's Literature3
CIEP 332 School Wide Applications 3CIEP 359Teaching Reading3
ELPS 219 History of American Education 3ELPS 302Philosophy of Education3
School of Education ﬁeld-based TLSC modulesTLSC modules must be taken in order and in established groups
(called Sequences) each semester. As students move through the
TLLSC Phases, they gain extensive ﬁeld experience, as well as
knowledge and skills to effectively support children with disabilities
across the continuum from elementary age to adulthood. Specialized
modules for SPED majors begin with TLSC 260. The TLLSC
curriculum includes a one-year internship (TLSC 360, TLSC 370,
TLSC 380) in a special education classroom under the supervision
of a licensed and experienced teacher and University supervisor. In
addition, students must enroll in Professional Learning Communities
(PLCs) each fall (TLSC 300A) and spring (TLSC 300B) and collaborate
with the others in the major. PLCs are led by a faculty member with
expertise in special education. Consult the SOE undergraduate
advisor and visit the Suggested Sequence of Classes tables to learn
more about the four-year SPED curriculum.Phase One - ExplorationTLSC 110The Profession and Our Program (TLLSC)1
TLSC 120 Bringing Language, Learning & Development
Theory into Practice2TLSC 130Sequence One: 130 Community Immersion1
TLSC 140 Teaching, Learning and Leading for Social Justice 1TLSC 150Constructive Learning Environments For Diverse
Students1
TLSC 160 Analyzing Culturally-Responsive Classroom
Instruction1TLSC 210Educational Policy For Diverse Students2
TLSC 221 Individualized Instruction and Assessment for
Diverse Learners2TLSC 222Authentic Assessment and Instruction for Bilingual
Learners2
TLSC 300A Professional Learning Communities ((4 @ 0
credits) SPED majors must enroll each fall in
the TLSC 300B section that corresponds with
their major. Fall/Spring PLC credit is issued in
the spring. Students must enroll in PLCs every
semester for all four years.)0TLSC 300BProfessional Learning Communities ((4 @ 1
credit) SPED majors must enroll each spring in
the TLSC 300B section that corresponds with
their major. Students must enroll in PLCs every
semester for all four years.)1
Phase Two - ConcentrationTLSC 260Typical and A-Typical Development2
TLSC 261 Signiﬁcant Disabilities and Life Planning 2TLSC 262Assistive and Adaptive Technology2
TLSC 263 Transition Planning 2TLSC 310Language and Literacy for Diverse Students2
TLSC 320 Using Classroom Data in a Collaborative Env to
Advance Student Achievement2TLSC 330Discipline-Speciﬁc Literacy for Diverse Students2
TLSC 340 Teaching and Learning in an Area of Specialization 2TLSC 350Teaching and Learning with a Global Framework4
Phase Three - SpecializationTLSC 360Developing Rigorous and Relevant Instruction &
Assessment3
TLSC 370 Design&Implement Rigorous&Rlvnt
Instrctn&Assmt: Tching Perform Assmt Prep3TLSC 380Tching, Lrning & Leading with Schools &
Communities Internship: Stud Tching12
Optional Courses leading to Elementary Education endorsementThese courses should be taken in the spring of Year two:TLSC 231 Teaching Science/Writing in Elem and Middle
GradesTLSC 232Integrated Teaching/Learning Social Studies &
Writing in Elementary GradesTotal Hours73
Suggested Sequence of Courses
This sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested path for
completing coursework. SPED majors must consult their SOE advisor
for assistance with course selection and to ensure that all Education
degree requirements are met. Note that TLSC modules must be taken in a
prescribed order. Students must complete each sequence before moving
on to the next. Major-speciﬁc CIEP courses are linked to a sequence and
must be taken within that semester.

--- Page 880 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 911
Standard 4-Year Program
Course Title Hours
Sequence 1
TLSC 300A Professional Learning Communities ( SPED ) 0TLSC 110The Profession and Our Program (TLLSC)1
TLSC 120 Bringing Language, Learning &
Development Theory into Practice2TLSC 130Sequence One: 130 Community Immersion1
UCWR 110 Writing Responsibly 3COREScientiﬁc Literacy Tier I3
CORE Literary Knowledge & Experience Tier I 3UNIV 101First Year Seminar1Submit all required documentation and background check prior to
program entry  Hours14
Sequence 2
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities ( SPED ) 1TLSC 140Teaching, Learning and Leading for Social
Justice1
TLSC 150 Constructive Learning Environments For
Diverse Students1TLSC 160Analyzing Culturally-Responsive Classroom
Instruction1
CIEP 104 Mathematics for Teachers I ( Quantitative ) 3CIEP 206Children's Literature ( Tier II Literary )3
CORE Artistic Knowledge 3COREHistorical Knowledge Tier I3 Hours16
Sequence 3TLSC 300AProfessional Learning Communities ( SPED )0
TLSC 210 Educational Policy For Diverse Students 2TLSC 221Individualized Instruction and Assessment
for Diverse Learners2
TLSC 222 Authentic Assessment and Instruction for
Bilingual Learners2ELPS 219History of American Education ( Tier II
Historical )3
CORE Theological & Religious Studies Tier I 3CORESocietal & Cultural Knowledge Tier I3 Hours15
Sequence 4TLSC 300BProfessional Learning Communities ( SPED )1
CIEP 359 Teaching Reading 3TLSC 231Teaching Science/Writing in Elem and
Middle Grades3
TLSC 232 Integrated Teaching/Learning Social
Studies & Writing in Elementary Grades3TLSC 260Typical and A-Typical Development2
TLSC 261 Signiﬁcant Disabilities and Life Planning 2TLSC 262Assistive and Adaptive Technology2
TLSC 263 Transition Planning 2Candidates seeking an endorsement in Elementary Education
should take the Elementary Content Area Test through the IL
Licensure Testing Service  Hours18
Sequence 5TLSC 300AProfessional Learning Communities ( SPED )0
TLSC 310 Language and Literacy for Diverse
Students2TLSC 320Using Classroom Data in a Collaborative
Env to Advance Student Achievement2
TLSC 330 Discipline-Speciﬁc Literacy for Diverse
Students2COREPhilosophical Knowledge Tier I3
PLSC 101 American Politics ( Tier II Societal ) 3ELECTIVEGeneral Elective4Apply for One-Year Internship by October 1  Hours16
Sequence 6
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities ( SPED ) 1TLSC 340Teaching and Learning in an Area of
Specialization2
TLSC 350 Teaching and Learning with a Global
Framework4PHYS 101Liberal Arts Physics ( Tier II Scientiﬁc )3
CORE Theological and Religious Studies Tier II 3COREEthics3
Take the Content Area Test for Learning Behavior Specialist I
(#290). Register through the IL Licensure Testing Service As an alternative to #290, you may take both #155 and #163 until
these tests retire in 2023.  Hours16
Sequence 7TLSC 300AProfessional Learning Communities ( SPED )0
TLSC 360 Developing Rigorous and Relevant
Instruction & Assessment3TLSC 370Design&Implement Rigorous&Rlvnt
Instrctn&Assmt: Tching Perform Assmt
Prep3
ELPS 302 Philosophy of Education ( Philosophical Tier
II)3CIEP 332School Wide Applications3Apply for May Graduation in LOCUS by October 1  Hours12
Sequence 8
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities ( SPED ) 1TLSC 380Tching, Lrning & Leading with Schools
& Communities Internship: Stud Tching
(Engaged Learning )12Must have passed any Content Area Tests prior to Sequence 8
Student Teaching  Hours13 Total Hours120

--- Page 881 ---
912  Special Education Minor
 Accelerated Learning Behavior Specialist 1 (LBS1) Transfer Track
This transfer pathway offers a 2-year degree option for applicants who
already have an Associate's Degree in a related ﬁeld (or the equivalent
credit hours).  Offered in a hybrid format, candidates would complete the
following 2 year course sequence to obtain their licensure as a Learning
Behavior Specialist.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Summer II
TLSC 210 Educational Policy For Diverse Students 2TLSC 221Individualized Instruction and Assessment
for Diverse Learners2TLSC 222Authentic Assessment and Instruction for
Bilingual Learners2 Hours6
Fall
TLSC 260 Typical and A-Typical Development 2TLSC 261Signiﬁcant Disabilities and Life Planning2
TLSC 262 Assistive and Adaptive Technology 2TLSC 263Transition Planning2
TLSC 300A Professional Learning Communities 0CIEP 359Teaching Reading3 Hours11
SpringTLSC 310Language and Literacy for Diverse
Students2
TLSC 320 Using Classroom Data in a Collaborative
Env to Advance Student Achievement2TLSC 330Discipline-Speciﬁc Literacy for Diverse
Students2
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities 1CIEP 332School Wide Applications3 Hours10
Year 2
SummerTHEO 190Loyola's Mission: Ignatian Traditions3
ELPS 302 Philosophy of Education 3Choose one of the following:3
CIEP 105 Mathematics for Teachers II  Ethics Course Requirement  Hours9
FallTLSC 340Teaching and Learning in an Area of
Specialization2
TLSC 350 Teaching and Learning with a Global
Framework4TLSC 360Developing Rigorous and Relevant
Instruction & Assessment3TLSC 300AProfessional Learning Communities0 Hours9
Spring
TLSC 370 Design&Implement Rigorous&Rlvnt
Instrctn&Assmt: Tching Perform Assmt
Prep3TLSC 380Tching, Lrning & Leading with Schools &
Communities Internship: Stud Tching 112TLSC 300BProfessional Learning Communities1 Hours10
Year 3
Summer ITLSC 380Tching, Lrning & Leading with Schools &
Communities Internship: Stud Tching 112 Hours6 Total Hours61
1Student takes 6 credit hours of TLSC 380  in Spring and 6 credit hours
of TLSC 380  in Summer.
School of Education Requirements
Undergraduate students in the School of Education must complete all
degree requirements with a grade of C or better in order to graduate and
be entitled for the Illinois State Professional Educator License (PEL).
They must also enroll in and pass PLCs each semester. In order to enroll
in TLSC modules, all students must complete required documentation
procedures, including background checks, at designated points in their
pathway and as required by ﬁeld sites. TLSC modules address the
University requirement for Engaged Learning.
Licensure Requirements
In order to be entitled for the Illinois State Professional Educator License
(PEL), students must pass the Special Education licensure exam prior to
their ﬁnal internship semester.
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•You'll have accrued the equivalent of one year of full-time teaching
experience through all the hands-on, experiential learning
opportunities in Chicago's classrooms and community organizations,
so you will be ready to be at the head of your own classroom. With
the foundational knowledge from your Loyola education, you will
utilize theories, data, and research practices when making decisions
in your classroom and for your students and when assessing the
effectiveness of teaching on learning.
Special Education Minor
A program for Education majors that prepares you to serve the needs
of all students and qualify for an endorsement in special education
on Illinois Professional Educator License (PEL). Illinois refers to this
endorsement as the Learning Behavior Specialist – 1 (LBS-1).
There is a nationwide shortage of special education teachers, at a time
when students with different academic, behavioral, and social needs are

--- Page 882 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 913
often overlooked or fall behind. Adding a special education minor to your
education major can help you address this important need in the ﬁeld.
Related Programs
Major
•Early Childhood Special Education (BSEd)  (p. 890)
•Special Education (BSEd)  (p. 909)
Combined
•Special Education/International Affairs (BSEd/MA)  (p. 1372 )
Curriculum
This minor is open only to Education majors. Note that while this
minor includes 40 total hours, most of these are already included in the
Education major.
Learning Behavioral Specialist I (LBSI) Requirements
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesTLSC 120Bringing Language, Learning & Development
Theory into Practice2
TLSC 140 Teaching, Learning and Leading for Social Justice 1TLSC 150Constructive Learning Environments For Diverse
Students1
TLSC 160 Analyzing Culturally-Responsive Classroom
Instruction1TLSC 221Individualized Instruction and Assessment for
Diverse Learners2
TLSC 222 Authentic Assessment and Instruction for Bilingual
Learners2TLSC 260Typical and A-Typical Development2
TLSC 261 Signiﬁcant Disabilities and Life Planning
(candidates are required to complete Inclusion
Observation Project)2TLSC 310Language and Literacy for Diverse Students2
TLSC 320 Using Classroom Data in a Collaborative Env to
Advance Student Achievement2TLSC 330Discipline-Speciﬁc Literacy for Diverse Students2
TLSC 340 Teaching and Learning in an Area of Specialization 2TLSC 350Teaching and Learning with a Global Framework
( candidates are required to include Universal
Design for Learning (UDL) within instructions
lesson or unit plan)4
CIEP 478 /
CIEP M31Behavioral Intervention: Assessment & Support 3TLSC 380Tching, Lrning & Leading with Schools &
Communities Internship: Stud Tching (candidate's
placement must be in an inclusion setting)12Total Hours40
Suggested Sequence of Classes
Course Title Hours
Year 1
TLSC 120 Bringing Language, Learning &
Development Theory into Practice2TLSC 140Teaching, Learning and Leading for Social
Justice1
TLSC 150 Constructive Learning Environments For
Diverse Students1TLSC 160Analyzing Culturally-Responsive Classroom
Instruction1 Hours5
Year 2
FallTLSC 221Individualized Instruction and Assessment
for Diverse Learners2TLSC 222Authentic Assessment and Instruction for
Bilingual Learners2 Hours4
Spring
TLSC 260 Typical and A-Typical Development 2TLSC 261Signiﬁcant Disabilities and Life Planning2 Hours4
Year 3
FallTLSC 310Language and Literacy for Diverse
Students2
TLSC 320 Using Classroom Data in a Collaborative
Env to Advance Student Achievement2TLSC 330Discipline-Speciﬁc Literacy for Diverse
Students2 Hours6
SpringTLSC 340Teaching and Learning in an Area of
Specialization2TLSC 350Teaching and Learning with a Global
Framework ( candidates are required to
include Universal Design for Learning (UDL)
within instructions lesson or unit plan )4 Hours6
Year 4
FallCIEP 478 / CIEP M31Behavioral Intervention: Assessment &
Support3 Hours3
SpringTLSC 380Tching, Lrning & Leading with Schools
& Communities Internship: Stud Tching
(candidate's placement must be in an
inclusion setting )12 Hours12 Total Hours40
School of Education Requirements
Grades of "C-" or lower are not counted toward fulﬁllment of minor
requirements. In order to enroll in TLSC modules, all students must
complete required documentation procedures, including background
checks, at designated points in their pathway and as required by ﬁeld
sites. TLSC modules address the University requirement for Engaged
Learning.

--- Page 883 ---
914  Teaching and Learning Minor
Licensure Requirements
In order to apply for the Learning Behavior Specialist 1 endorsement,
candidates must pass the Illinois Learning Behavior Specialist I Content
Area Test (#290). It is recommended that students pass this before
beginning their ﬁnal internship semester.
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Learning Outcomes
A candidate who completes the Special Education minor will have:
•A Comprehensive Understanding of Special Education: Candidates
grasp diverse instructional strategies, cultural influences, and
collaboration techniques to address individual learning needs of
students with disabilities.
•Proﬁcient Assessment and Planning Skills: Candidates proﬁciently
administer assessments, interpret results, and develop personalized
education plans while adhering to ethical standards and staying
abreast of research-based practices.
•Effective Collaboration and Professionalism: Candidates foster
inclusive partnerships, navigate cultural differences, and engage in
reflective practice to continually enhance teaching methods while
advocating for social justice in education.
•Leadership and Advocacy for Exceptional Needs: Candidates
demonstrate leadership in implementing school-wide initiatives,
promoting positive behavior, and advocating ethically for appropriate
services to maximize the potential of individuals with disabilities.
Teaching and Learning Minor
The Teaching and Learning minor provides access to foundational ﬁeld-
based learning experiences in our undergraduate teacher education
program to students in other majors who are interested in schooling
and in working with teachers, educators, and/or families but who do not
intend to work as classroom teachers themselves. The minor will also
provide foundational learning experiences for non-Education majors
who are interested in substitute teaching, and it includes electives
allowing students to specialize in areas of interest in education, as well
as internships and other experiences that are tailored to those interests.
Related Programs
Minor
•Reading Teacher Minor  (p. 903)
•Teaching Artist Minor  (p. 466)
Curriculum 
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesTLSC 110The Profession and Our Program (TLLSC)1
TLSC 120 Bringing Language, Learning & Development
Theory into Practice2TLSC 130Sequence One: 130 Community Immersion1
TLSC 140 Teaching, Learning and Leading for Social Justice 1TLSC 150Constructive Learning Environments For Diverse
Students1
TLSC 160 Analyzing Culturally-Responsive Classroom
Instruction1TLSC 210Educational Policy For Diverse Students2
TLSC 221 Individualized Instruction and Assessment for
Diverse Learners2TLSC 222Authentic Assessment and Instruction for Bilingual
Learners2
Electives  (p. 914) 6Choose any combination of courses/modules or select within an
interest area as presented below.Total Hours19
Elective Course Options
Students can take any six (6) hours or more of electives, but the
possibilities are arranged into interest areas based upon available
courses and themes that may appeal to students interested in learning
about particular areas of education.  None of these are new courses or
modules.
Code Title Hours
Museum EducationTLSC 325Teaching Internship in Informal Education Settings
13
Child and Adolescent LiteratureCIEP 206Children's Literature 23
CIEP 350 Adolescent Literature 33Early Childhood EducationCIEP 315 Language Development and Literacy 3TLSC 252Foundations, Settings, and Studies of Effective
Early Childhood Education1
TLSC 253 Developmentally Approp Practice
Assmt&Intervention Young Children Spcl Nds2Individualized Supports and Services for Children with DisabilitiesSelect any totaling six (6) credit hours.CIEP M32Exceptional Learner II3
TLSC 253 Developmentally Approp Practice
Assmt&Intervention Young Children Spcl Nds2TLSC 260Typical and A-Typical Development 42
TLSC 261 Signiﬁcant Disabilities and Life Planning 42TLSC 300AProfessional Learning Communities 50
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities 51Special Education SystemsCIEP 332 School Wide Applications 3TLSC 263Transition Planning2
TLSC 300A Professional Learning Communities 50TLSC 300BProfessional Learning Communities 51
Elementary EducationSelect any totaling six (6) credit hours.CIEP 104 Mathematics for Teachers I 3CIEP 105Mathematics for Teachers II3
CIEP 206 Children's Literature 23CIEP 359Teaching Reading3

--- Page 884 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 915
Other ElectivesELPS 219History of American Education3
1Students pursuing the Teaching and Learning Minor (in particular,
those who select the museum education interest area) have the option
of taking this internship twice if they choose to. They are not required
to do so and may enroll in other elective courses instead if desired.
2Must be taken concurrently in the same sequence with Sequence 2.
3Fall (Secondary), Spring (Middle Grades)
4These two modules must be taken concurrently (in a single semester)
for a total of four (4) credit hours.
5Must take TLSC 300A  in the Fall and TLSC 300B  in the Spring in a
single academic year.
Residency Requirement
At least half of minor hours must be completed at LUC and may not
transferred in. Any potential transfer hours are reviewed by the T&L
program chair.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
TLSC 110 The Profession and Our Program (TLLSC) 1TLSC 120Bringing Language, Learning &
Development Theory into Practice2TLSC 130Sequence One: 130 Community Immersion1 Hours4
Spring
TLSC 140 Teaching, Learning and Leading for Social
Justice1TLSC 150Constructive Learning Environments For
Diverse Students1TLSC 160Analyzing Culturally-Responsive Classroom
Instruction1 Hours3
Year 2
Fall
TLSC 210 Educational Policy For Diverse Students 2TLSC 221Individualized Instruction and Assessment
for Diverse Learners2TLSC 222Authentic Assessment and Instruction for
Bilingual Learners2 Hours6
Spring
Elective Course  13Elective Course  13 Hours6 Total Hours19
1Elective course offerings and credit hours are subjective based on
student interest.  Please meet with an advisor with questions about
options.Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Learning Outcomes
•Students interested in a profession that requires educating others
or providing professional development will learn principles and
strategies of effective educational systems and strategies for
working with diverse children, families and communities.
•Students will participate in alternative experiences in a variety of
educational settings, including multiple site visits to a variety of
schools or internships that are missing from many related LUC
majors, even in cases where graduates will go on to do work that
relates to or intersects with that of schools.
•Undergraduates will be better prepared for roles as short-term
substitute teachers under recent ISBE guidelines with a better
foundational and pedagogical knowledge than those who apply for
that license with no background or coursework in education.
School of Environmental
Sustainability
Our Mission
The mission of Loyola University Chicago’s School of
Environmental Sustainability (SES) is to engage students in
understanding and responding to local and global environmental issues
by:
•Delivering Core environmental science courses to raise
awareness and action in all LUC undergraduates,
•Preparing SES baccalaureate and graduate students for
socially responsible professions in environmental science,
policy, education, business, and health, and 
•Advancing our knowledge of environmental problems
and developing solutions through original research and
community outreach.
The SES strives to advance sustainability in operations across
all university campuses and to:
•Develop an environmentally conscious culture throughout
the university.
•Advance the University’s mission of seeking God in all
things
•Work to expand knowledge in the service of humanity
through learning, justice, and faith
•Provide a rich and transformative educational experience
grounded in teaching and research excellence
•Promote experiential learning, and student entrepreneurial
action in the service of nature, humanity, and the planet
Our Sustainability Mission
Sustainability at Loyola is driven by our Jesuit tradition of social
justice, our service to humanity, and our role as an institution of higher
education. It is embodied in an  educational experience for our students
and activities that seek to meet the needs of the present generation
without compromising the ability of future generations to  meet their

--- Page 885 ---
916  School of Environmental Sustainability
own needs.  We are committed to an inclusive process considering
social, economic, and environmental impacts and exempliﬁed in a
transformative  education for our students.
Our Commitment to Racial and Social
Justice
We acknowledge that the multi-century legacy of racism against
people of color -- particularly against those who are Black, Indigenous,
Latinx, and Asian -- pervades environmentalism, where White voices
and agendas continue to dominate. Environmentalist doctrines have
been – and continue to be – used to justify eugenics, genocide, and
the displacement of indigenous people from their ancestral homelands.
We afﬁrm that social justice and ecological justice are both integral
to achieving sustainability. We commit ourselves to deep reflection
on the many ways that we as individuals are socialized into white
supremacy and that our organizational culture, policies, and practices
reflect it.  This intentional process of study will enable us to identify the
changes required of IES as we move towards becoming an anti-racist,
multicultural organization that advances racial, social, and environmental
justice through our teaching, research, and service.
Undergraduate Programs
•Environmental Action and Leadership Minor  (p. 928)
•Environmental Economics & Sustainability  (p. 929)
•Environmental Economics & Sustainability: Governance (BA)
(p. 930)
•Environmental Economics & Sustainability: Governance/
Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)  (p. 1099 )
•Environmental Economics & Sustainability: Management (BA)
(p. 931)
•Environmental Economics & Sustainability: Management/
Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)  (p. 1103 )
•Environmental Economics and Sustainability Minor  (p. 933)
•Environmental Policy  (p. 934)
•Environmental Policy (BA)  (p. 934)
•Environmental Policy/Digital Media and Storytelling (BA/MC)
(p. 1108 )
•Environmental Policy/Environmental Science and Sustainability
(BA/MS)  (p. 1112 )
•Environmental Policy/Global Strategic Communication (BA/MS)
(p. 1117 )
•Environmental Policy/Public Policy (BA/MPP)  (p. 1122 )
•Environmental Science  (p. 937)
•Environmental Science (BS)  (p. 937)
•Environmental Science Minor  (p. 944)
•Environmental Science/Business (BS/MBA)  (p. 1127 )
•Environmental Science/Digital Media and Storytelling (BS/MC)
(p. 1133 )
•Environmental Science/Environmental Science and Sustainability
(BS/MS)  (p. 1139 )
•Environmental Science/Global Strategic Communication (BS/MS)
(p. 1146 )
•Environmental Science/Public Health (BS/MPH)  (p. 1153 )
•Environmental Science/Public Policy (BS/MPP)  (p. 1159 )
•Environmental Studies  (p. 945)•Environmental Studies (BA)  (p. 946)
•Environmental Studies/Business (BA/MBA)  (p. 1166 )
•Environmental Studies/Digital Media and Storytelling (BA/MC)
(p. 1171 )
•Environmental Studies/Environmental Science and Sustainability
(BA/MS)  (p. 1176 )
•Environmental Studies/Global Strategic Communication (BA/MS)
(p. 1182 )
•Environmental Studies/Public Policy (BA/MPP)  (p. 1187 )
•Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's Programs with ESS-MS  (p. 949)
•Advertising & Public Relations/Environmental Science and
Sustainability (BA/MS)  (p. 963)
•Advertising Creative/Environmental Science and Sustainability
(BA/MS)  (p. 982)
•Advocacy and Social Change/Environmental Science and
Sustainability (BA/MS)  (p. 992)
•Communication Studies/Environmental Science and
Sustainability (BA/MS)  (p. 1057 )
•Film and Digital Media: Film and Media Production Track/
Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)  (p. 1196 )
•Film and Digital Media: International Programming Track/
Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)  (p. 1208 )
•Multimedia Journalism/Environmental Science and Sustainability
(BA/MS)  (p. 1292 )
Curriculum Overview
Environmental problems are multifaceted and cannot be
adequately understood and addressed through a monochromatic lens.
As such, all SES majors share ten common environmental courses
totaling 26 credits. These standard courses cover an introduction
to environmental science, statistics, ecology with a lab, economics,
politics, justice and ethics, environmental careers, an engaged learning
experience, and a capstone experience.
Additional core courses in biology (8 credits) and chemistry (12
credits) are required for each of the BS majors. In addition, all majors
require either specialty courses (0 to 14 credits), free electives (3 to 15
credits), or electives in the categories of Society, Ethics, & Justice (3 to
6 credits), Policy, Economics, & Resource Management (0 to 6 credits),
and Methods and Analysis (0 to 3 credits). The BS majors require a
total of 67 to 70 credits to complete. The BA majors require a total of 51
to 54 credits to complete. A student who wishes to double major within
SES must complete at least 15 credit hours of coursework that is unique
to each major.
Students wishing to add an SES minor can share 9 of 21 credits needed
for either the Environmental Action and Leadership minor or
the Environmental Science minor with their SES major. For those
choosing the Environmental Economics and Sustainability minor, 6
of the 18 credits required for the minor can be shared with the major.
Students minoring in either Sustainability Management, administ ered
by the Quinlan School of Business, or Environmental Communication,
administered by the School of Communication, can share 6 of the 18
credits required for either of those minors with their SES major.
Shared Core Courses
Code Title Hours
ENVS 137 Foundations of Environmental Science I 3ENVS 200Environmental Careers and Professional Skills1

--- Page 886 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 917
ENVS 203 Environmental Statistics 3ENVS 280Principles of Ecology3
ENVS 286 Principles of Ecology Lab 1
or ENVS 286S Principles of Ecology LabJustice & Ethics Choice3
ENVS 335 Ecological Economics 3
or ECON 328 Environmental EconomicsPLSC 392Environmental Politics3
Engaged Learning Choice 3Capstone Choice3
Double-Dipping Policy 
1.SES students may not major and minor in the same discipline.
2.Majors: No fewer than 15 credit hours in the individual student’s
transcript must be unique to each major; that is, the courses in
question are considered as actually fulﬁlling requirements of one
major, not of more than one major.
3.Minors and interdisciplinary minors: no fewer than 8 credit hours
in the individual student’s transcript must be unique to each minor;
that is, the courses in question are considered as actually fulﬁlling
requirements of one minor, not of more than one minor or major.
Writing Requirement 
SES students must complete two writing intensive courses. UCWR 110
Writing Responsibly  must be taken in the ﬁrst year and must be
completed with a grade of "C-" or better before any writing-intensive
section may be taken. Please note that these two courses cannot be
taken simultaneously. Students who transfer in more than 60 credit hours
are waived from one writing intensive course.
Language Competency Requirement 
Competency at the 102-level or higher in reading, writing, and speaking a
language other than English is required of all SES  
students. This requirement can be met by: 
1. Passing (C- or higher) a 102-level or higher course in a language other
than English.  
2. Obtaining a waiver through Advanced Placement examination. A
passing AP score does not earn course credit, but waives a student from
the Foreign Language requirement of SES.  
3. Demonstrating language competency by passing a 102-level
(or above) language competency exam. Schedule a competency
exam with the Department of Modern Languages and Literatures
online: https://www.luc.edu/modernlang/placementcompetency/
foreignlanguagecompetencyexam/.
Academic Advising
All junior, senior, and transfer students will be advised by the SES. First
and Second Year students will be advised by First and Second Year
Advising (FSYA). Eligible students can declare or drop a major or minor
in LOCUS. Students who want to switch to SES from another school at
Loyola (or vice versa) must apply for an internal transfer.
Graduation and Commencement
SES students who have earned at least 85 credit hours are eligible to
apply for graduation. To be eligible to graduate, you must complete
a Graduation Application. The application is available online through
LOCUS. Early application ensures that you will receive an audit of  your remaining degree requirements prior to enrolling in your ﬁnal
semester’s classes. When you submit your application, you initiate
an "audit" of your Core, major, minor, and school requirements by your
SES academic advisor. Your  advisor will e-mail you a copy of the
graduation degree audit, which details your remaining requirements for
graduation. You may also choose to schedule an appointment to review
your remaining requirements with your academic advisor. Deadlines for
graduation applications are as follows: 
Fall (December) Graduation = applications due by March 1 
Spring (May) Graduation = applications due by October 1 
Summer (August) Graduation = applications due by October 1 
Students who do not apply by the application deadline must contact
their academic advisor for a late application form.
Students earning 60 or more graded Loyola credits are eligible to
graduate with laudatory honors. This outstanding accomplishment
will be noted on the student's diploma and ofﬁcial transcript. Note:
GPA is not rounded up for laudatory honors. Students who are eligible
for Commencement will receive an invitation to participate in the
ceremony. Commencement ceremonies are held only in May. Students
who complete their degrees in December, May, or August may participate
in the May ceremony if they wish.
University Policies
Please see University Policies for academic policies that supersede those
of academic units within the University
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Environmental Science (ENVS)
ENVS 101   The Scientiﬁc Basis of Environmental Issues   (3 Credit
Hours)   
The foundational course in science is predicated on the view that
understanding environmental issues and their underlying scientiﬁc
principles will occupy a central role in our students' lives and will be
critical in their development as informed and participating members
of society. The overarching strategy of the course will be to frame
environmental science in terms of a series of interacting systems to
allow students to analyze a variety of environmental issues. This is
a foundational Tier I class; it is prerequisite to all Tier II science core
classes.
Knowledge Area:  Foundational Scientiﬁc Knowledge   
Course equivalencies:  ENVS137/UCSF137/ENVS101   
Outcomes:
1) Exhibit knowledge of the nature of the four Earth systems; 2)
Draw inferences from evidence, constructing testable and falsiﬁable
hypotheses and analyzing data; 3) Understand the role of energy and
thermodynamics in ecosystems; 4) Understand and describe important
cycles in nature

--- Page 887 ---
918  School of Environmental Sustainability
ENVS 137   Foundations of Environmental Science I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Restricted to Majors and Minors in the School of
Environmental Sustainability   
This course will introduce concepts that form the basis of environmental
science, including elemental cycling, energy flow/transformation, and
the interconnectivity among atmosphere, lithosphere, hydrosphere and
biosphere, and within ecosystems. Ways in which knowledge of these
concepts informs policy, management and social perception to produce
positive change will also be examined.
Course equivalencies:  ENVS137/UCSF137/ENVS101   
Outcomes:
Recognize interconnections among scientiﬁc disciplines and how their
principles are used to investigate and address environmental issues;
understand physical, chemical and ecological principles underlying
environmental science and how these interact
ENVS 200   Environmental Careers and Professional Skills   (1 Credit
Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 101 or ENVS 137; Restricted to Majors and Minors in
the School of Environmental Sustainability   
Introduction to environmental professions and determining skills and
individual traits best suited for professions in policy, science, business,
community organizing, etc. Begin developing a professional network.
Outcomes:
Select appropriate internships, curriculum, projects to enhance
knowledge, skills and experience; develop job hunting and
communication skills speciﬁc to environmental ﬁelds, including resumes,
cover letters, presentations
ENVS 203   Environmental Statistics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Restricted to Majors and Minors in the School of
Environmental Sustainability   
This course introduces basic statistics from probability through multiple
regression, employing computer programs with ecological, environmental,
and relevant social science examples and data sets.
Outcomes:
Programming/spreadsheet skills; data structure practices and diagnosis;
data visualization; appropriate test selection; test execution and
interpretation; introduction to qualitative data analysis
ENVS 204   Gender, Health & Environment   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 101 or ENVS 137 or BIOL 101   
Exploration of connections between social justice and environmental
health using scientiﬁc tools of analysis. Focus on experiences of those
at intersection of marginalized social locations. Issues include impacts
of modern disposable culture and how socially constructed gender roles
affect exposure to environmental health risks while biological sex shapes
their impacts.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Outcomes:
Understanding the web of causality (relationships among scientiﬁc,
medical, ecological, cultural, behavioral, economic, political, and ethical
dimensions) of environmental health problems and how to ameliorate the
disproportionate burden of riskENVS 207   Plants and Civilization   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 101 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
Examines the structure, function, ecology, and diversity of plants, their
importance to human civilization, and the impact of societal decisions
regarding their use and exploitation.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Scientiﬁc Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics, Urban Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the critical role of
plants in the biosphere, their physiological processes, adaptations for
specialization, and linkages to humans including agriculture, pest control,
and extraction/use of plant-derived products
ENVS 215   Ornithology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 101 or ENVS 137 or BIOL 101   
An introduction to the biology of birds including the topics of anatomy,
physiology, behavior, ecology, and evolution. Includes some ﬁeld trips to
learn how to identify species and to collect behavioral information.
Course equivalencies:  BIOL 215/ENVS 215   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the biology of bi rds and
be able to identify some of the commoner species of birds in our area
ENVS 218   Biodiversity & Biogeography   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 101 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course covers the creation and maintenance of biodiversity across
taxonomic, temporal and spatial scales. It will provide an overview of
the history of biogeography, increase understanding of the evolutionary
processes that create biodiversity, the influence of biodiversity on
ecosystem services, and the rapid biodiversity loss resulting from human
actions.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Scientiﬁc Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics, Urban Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain knowledge of and appreciation for the biodiversity of
life, its formation through the process of evolution, and the importance of
biodiversity to ecosystem function and human welfare
ENVS 223   Soil Ecology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 101 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course introduces the properties, functions, and conservation of
soil. Topics include belowground ecosystem services, soil biodiversity,
biogeochemical cycles, and conservation, human impacts to soils, and
the socioeconomic implications of soil degradation. Lectures, laboratory/
ﬁeld soil testing, ﬁeld trips, and presentations by experts in sustainable
soil management are employed.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Scientiﬁc Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics, Urban Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the properties, functions and methods of
conservation/remediation of soils, learn how human activities affect soils
and associated socioeconomic consequences, and develop analytical
skills to assess soil health

--- Page 888 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 919
ENVS 224   Climate & Climate Change   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 101 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
This course introduces students to basic principles and knowledge
to explain climate change. Students will learn about natural and
anthropogenic causes of climate change, the interactions between earth-
atmosphere-ocean systems, climate feedback mechanisms, and impacts
of climate change on the natural physical environment.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Scientiﬁc Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics, Urban Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will develop cognitive and mathematical skills to draw valid,
logical conclusions regarding various observed phenomena such as
observed changes in the climate system and observed impacts of climate
change
ENVS 226   Science & Conservation of Freshwater Ecosystems   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 101 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
Freshwater ecosystems are threatened by water extraction, pollution,
invasive species, and many other pressures. This course covers physical,
chemical, and biological processes in freshwaters, and the beneﬁts that
humans derive from these ecosystems. Major issues for conservation will
be covered at global and Great Lakes scales.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics, Urban Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain understanding of different types of freshwater
ecosystems, their functioning and importance for human societies, and
the range of pressures they currently face
ENVS 227R   Ecology of the Mediterranean Sea   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 101 or ENVS 137 or BIOL 101   
This course examines the ecology of the Mediterranean Sea and how
human activity has shaped the present-day ecosystem. Students will
learn fundamental ecological concepts including ecosystem functioning,
energy flow, matter transformation, and elemental cycles and the human
impacts on the Mediterranean environment, including discussion of
impact reduction and remediation.
Knowledge Area:  Tier 2 Scientiﬁc Knowledge   
Interdisciplinary Option:  Italian Studies   
Outcomes:
Students will gain understanding of ecological processes/
interconnections within the Mediterranean Sea ecosystem, of historical &
current human-induced changes thereinENVS 230   Feeding the Planet: Global Perspectives on Sustainability,
Culture and Food   (3 Credit Hours)   
Cross-cultural policies, practices, and beliefs about the production,
preparation, consumption, and distribution of food vary widely. This
course examines food in historical, political, social, and cultural contexts
around the globe. It is divided into four sections that require students
to apply concepts in food studies to international case studies and
global examples: Cross-Cultural & Global Perspectives on Food; Culture,
Identity, and Food; The Political Economy of Food; and Social, Cultural,
Political, and Economic Responses to Hunger. Course topics include
subsistence patterns and cultural patterns of food preparation and
consumption; cultural practices involving food preferences and taboos;
the globalization of foods and cuisines; labor practices in industrial
agriculture; alternative economies of food; global policies and practices
developed to eliminate hunger and malnutrition; the use/misuse of global
food aid, and others.
Outcomes:
Explain the rationales of cross-cultural beliefs and practices of our own
and others' foodways; Apply interdisciplinary perspectives to analyze
the historical, cultural, and political roots of social phenomena and world
problems involving food and society; Assess various dimensions of the
forms and mechanisms of oppression, discrimination, or privilege in
global and local food systems; Investigate coalitions and key ideas, past
and present, which address and advocate for economic and social justice
in the food system
ENVS 237   Foundations of Environmental Chemistry   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 101 or ENVS 137; Restricted to BA majors in the
School of Environmental Sustainability   
This course is the second in a three-course sequence required of all ENVS
BA majors. These courses provide the basic scientiﬁc grounding needed
to intelligently discuss environmental issues and to prepare students
for more advanced study on the environment. ENVS 237 focuses on the
physical and chemical science needed to understand environmental
processes. Students will build their quantitative skills in evaluating
energy and chemical transactions that impact our environment.
The course will also work on building skills in interpreting scientiﬁc
information, including using academic peer-reviewed journal articles.
Outcomes:
Be able to quantitatively assess environmental systems and
anthropogenic processes that impact the environment; Gain
understanding of the physical and chemical processes of environmental
systems to be able to describe global climate dynamics, chemical
reactions that contribute to environmental issues, the energetics of
different energy sources, and technological aspects of alternative energy
sources; Appreciate the importance of chemistry and physics as applied
to different environmental issues and used by different environmental
ﬁelds
ENVS 238   Foundations of Environmental Science Lab   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 237 (pre- or co-requisite); Restricted to BA majors in
the School of Environmental Sustainability   
A lab course designed to be associated with ENVS 237, this course is
designed to introduce all ENVS majors to lab safety, basic lab techniques
such as use of balances and microscopes, data analysis, and the
application of these techniques to the study of environmental science.
Outcomes:
Students will understand and demonstrate safe lab practices and learn to
use basic lab equipment to take and analyze environmental science data

--- Page 889 ---
920  School of Environmental Sustainability
ENVS 260   Environmental Journalism   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Department Consent Required   
The mission of environmental journalism is to raise public awareness
about environmental news and issues. It is about being ethical, accurate,
fair, and clear, whether reporting, investigating, or advocating for change.
Course equivalencies:  X-ENVS 260/ COMM 260   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to ﬁnd, report, and present challenging stories
around this topic, in print and in broadcast writing
ENVS 267   Bird Conservation and Ecology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 101 or ENVS 137 or BIOL 102   
This engaged-learning course provides an introduction to the theory
and practice of avian conservation, ecology and management. Field
trips for viewing birds in the wild, observing behavior and collecting
data on habitat assessments are highlighted. Students participate in
a community service project to gather data for avian conservation and
management
Course equivalencies:  X-ENVS 267/BIOL 347   
Outcomes:
Students will become skilled in critical reasoning and some bird
monitoring techniques, and demonstrate an understanding of the many
facets of bird conservation
ENVS 273   Energy and the Environment   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 101 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
The concept of energy developed from antiquity through the present
day and applied to national and worldwide energy use patterns, the
technologies supporting their use, as well as the societal impact and
environmental consequences of energy usage.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics, Peace, Justice, and Conflict Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will become skilled in critical reasoning and methods of inquiry,
demonstrate an understanding of critical concepts and knowledge:
heat and energy, the laws of thermodynamics, and current and future
technologies and their impactENVS 274   Chemistry of the Natural Environment   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 137, MATH 118 and CHEM 160; Restricted to Majors
and Minors in the School of Environmental Sustainability   
Environmental Chemistry is the study of how materials move through
the environment and interact within different environmental systems,
including the atmosphere, hydrosphere, lithosphere, and biosphere. In
this course, we will use this approach to better understand the chemical
and physical reactions taking place and their equilibrium in the natural
environment on Earth. The course will investigate these chemical and
physical interactions in the three unique environmental compartments
of the atmosphere, hydrosphere, and the soil environment, where the
lithosphere and biosphere overlap, as we learn more about the materials
and reactions that make up the natural environment. Students will utilize
problem solving to explore the materials and reactions of the major
compartments.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Outcomes:
Apply key equations, concepts, and physical laws relevant to
environmental chemistry to analyze how materials move through
the environment between different environmental compartments
(atmosphere, hydrosphere, lithosphere, biosphere); Quantitatively assess
materials in air, water, soil, and cells across a range of scales appropriate
in environmental science, from the microscopic to the global range;
Describe underlying ecosystem functions that establish the chem istry of
natural waters, air, and soil
ENVS 275   Chemistry of the Environment Lab   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 280 and (CHEM 112 or CHEM 181); ENVS 274 as
pre- or co-requisite; Restricted to Majors and Minors in the School of
Environmental Sustainability   
Basic techniques for chemical analysis of environmental samples,
including air, water and soil. Learn to use electronic data acquisition
systems and further develop scientiﬁc writing skills.
Outcomes:
Plan experiments, develop good lab techniques, conduct accurate
chemical analyses on environmental samples, interpret chemical data,
short and long reports describing work and interpreting signiﬁcance of
results
ENVS 276   Chemistry of Environmental Pollution   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 137, CHEM 160, MATH 118, and SES Major   
Environmental Chemistry is the study of how materials move through
the environment and interact within different environmental systems,
including the atmosphere, hydrosphere, lithosphere, and biosphere. In
this course, we will use this approach to better understand the chemical
and physical reactions that influence the transport and fate of chemical
pollutants in our environment. This course will identify major sources of
environmental pollutants and technologies for source pollution control as
well as understanding how pollutants move through the environment to
potentially impact ecosystems and human health. The course will  cover
pollutants in all environmental compartments including air pollution from
combustion sources, water quality issues and water treatment, and soil
pollutants with a focus on agrochemicals and their impact on both soil
environments and groundwater.
Outcomes:
Apply key equations, concepts, and physical laws relevant to
environmental chemistry to analyze how pollutants move through
and between different environmental compartments (atmosphere,
hydrosphere, lithosphere, biosphere); Describe underlying chemistry
of technologies and policies that would address key sources of major
pollutants; Be able to utilize physical chemical properties of pollutants as
a tool for assessing their persistence and potential to do harm in natural
ecosystems

--- Page 890 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 921
ENVS 278   Hydrology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 101 or ENVS 137 or BIOL 101   
Study of processes which cycle water between oceans, atmosphere, and
land surface. This course examines precipitation, evaporation, inﬁltration,
transpiration, groundwater and surface water flow. Understanding these
processes is fundamental to managing our resources in the face of
mounting environmental challenges and natural resource pressures.
Outcomes:
Understanding of key physical processes and multidirectional complex
interactions between different components of the water cycle; ability to
apply fundamental equations of conservation to quantify flows
ENVS 279   Climate and History   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Department Consent Required   
Explores the role of climate in history, from the emergence of homo
sapiens to recent anthropogenic climate change. Major topics include
the social impact of climate variability, sources of resilience, origins of
scientiﬁc knowledge, and the use of historical knowledge in the  present.
Course equivalencies:  X-HIST279E/ ENVS279   
Outcomes:
Students will analyze examples of climate shaping history, learn different
ways that scholars have treated this relationship, and reflect on how this
knowledge might be useful today
ENVS 280   Principles of Ecology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (ENVS 101 or ENVS 137) and (ENVS 237 or CHEM 101
or CHEM 160); Restricted to Majors and Minors in the School of
Environmental Sustainability   
The purpose of this course is to foster an in-depth understanding
of ecology, the study of relationships between organisms and the
environment at organizational scales ranging from genes, individuals,
and populations to communities, ecosystems, and landscapes. Topics
include population dynamics, species interactions, community dynamics,
food webs, ecosystem functions, and landscape ecology with a st rong
emphasis on scientiﬁc inquiry and data interpretation.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Outcomes:
Students will understand key concepts and principles concerning
ecological processes in nature at the gene, individual, population,
community, ecosystem and landscape scales and apply knowledge of
ecological concepts to current environmental challenges
ENVS 283   Environmental Sustainability   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 101 or equivalent; please check requirements for
declared majors/minors for exceptions   
Examines the impact of humans as consumers on the environment and
how these interactions affect the probability of establishing sustainability
for human and non-humans on Earth.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics, Urban Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will become skilled in critical reasoning and methods of inquiry,
and demonstrate an understanding of knowledge critical to the ﬁeld
including current human consumptive practices and their effects on the
health and well-being of living organismsENVS 284   Environmental Justice   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course examines how policy interacts with race and class t o affect
differentially people's access to a clean, safe, productive environment;
Reviews history of the environmental justice movement, and community,
policy, and legal responses; Develops students' ability to work across
diverse social groups to advance environmental justice and sustainability.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Outcomes:
Students will understand forces that have led to people of different race
and class being differentially affected by environmental beneﬁts, and the
burdens and strategies for addressing environmental injustices
ENVS 285   Eco-spirituality   (3 Credit Hours)   
Eco-spirituality is an emerging ﬁeld in ecology, conservation, and religion
that recognizes the spiritual component of environmentalism and Earth
stewardship. This course explores how ecological efforts are enhanced
by including a spiritual dimension and spirituality and religion must
include awareness and engagement with ecology and ecological issues.
Outcomes:
1) Draw connections between ecology, spirituality, and Loyola¿s mission;
2) Implement tools and practices that foster personal awareness and
reflection; 3) Demonstrate how reflection leads to necessary action
ENVS 286   Principles of Ecology Lab   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 203 and (ENVS 238 or CHEM 111 or CHEM 161) and
ENVS 280 (pre- or co-requisite); Restricted to BA Majors in the School of
Environmental Sustainability   
This course will allow students to develop experience and skills employed
in ecological studies, with an emphasis on ﬁeld work, laboratory analysis,
and hypothesis testing. Topics for lab exercises will correspond closely
with material from Ecology (ENVS 280) lecture. Course does not satisfy
requirements for BIOL major.
Outcomes:
Students will understand basic ecological principles, apply these to
design experiments, develop skills in data analysis and interpretation, and
learn techniques used to characterize ecosystem properties and human
environmental impacts
ENVS 286S   Principles of Ecology Lab   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 203 and (CHEM 111 or CHEM 161) and ENVS 280
(pre- or co-requisite); Restricted to BS Majors in the School of
Environmental Sustainability   
Course content includes lab skills and analytical techniques commonly
employed in ecological studies; emphasizes sampling, research design,
ﬁeld work, laboratory technique, data analysis, project development,
hypothesis testing, and scientiﬁc report writing.
Outcomes:
Understand ecological principles, apply knowledge to ecological
experiments, observational studies, and entry-level mathematical models;
assess biotic responses to the abiotic environment and to anthropogenic
impacts

--- Page 891 ---
922  School of Environmental Sustainability
ENVS 288   Applied Interdisciplinary Data Analysis   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  (ENVS 280 or BIOL 265) and (STAT 103 or STAT 203)   
Restricted to students in SES majors. This course teaches students to
approach environmental problem-solving from a systems perspective
by understanding the complex adaptive nature of socio-ecological. It
introduces analytic techniques used in the natural/social sciences,
and provides opportunity to analyze and connect data from various
disciplines (e.g., ecology, economics, sociology) to address pressing
environmental concerns.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to describe characteristics of complex ad aptive
systems, become familiar with analytical approaches suited to different
sub-disciplines, and apply numerous analytical techniques to real data
sets
ENVS 297   North American Environmental History   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Department Consent Required   
This course surveys the environment and environmentalism in United
States history, from the transformation of New England into a farm
ecology, the expansion of the cotton South, the settlement of the West, to
the rise of industrial cities, suburban sprawl, and the globalization of the
economy.
Course equivalencies:  X-ENVS297/HIST297E   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate historical knowledge of
environmental thought and ecological science, to draw links between
environmental concerns and public policies, and to develop critical
thinking and communication skills
ENVS 298   Special Topics   (1-12 Credit Hours)   
Speciﬁc titles and contents vary from semester to semester. Variable
credit hours.
ENVS 298L   Special Topics with Lab   (1-4 Credit Hours)   
Speciﬁc titles and contents vary from semester to semester. Includes lab
component.
ENVS 300   Introduction to Public Health   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Restricted to Majors and Minors in the School of
Environmental Sustainability; Junior or Senior Standing; Department
Consent Required   
Public health is the science of preventing disease and protecting
and promoting the health of populations and communities. Through
interactive exercises and application of concepts, this course considers
its history; ethical principles; scientiﬁc foundation and tools; biomedical
bases; socioeconomic and behavioral factors; environmental issues; and
relationship to medical care.
Course equivalencies:  X -PUBH 300/ ENVS 300   
Outcomes:
Describe the history, core concepts, functions, and methods of public
health; Deﬁne health disparities and explain how they are produced;
Synthesize public health information and communicate it effectively
ENVS 301   Environmental Health   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Restricted to Majors and Minors in the School of
Environmental Sustainability; Junior or Senior Standing; Department
Consent Required   
This course is designed as an introduction to the ﬁeld of environmental
health, including regulations, research, disease prevention, and advocacy.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Course equivalencies:  X-ENVS301/PUBH301/MBPH401   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to outline approaches for assessing and controlling
environmental hazards that affect community health and discuss major
local, national, and global health challengesENVS 303   Introduction to Epidemiology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Restricted to Majors and Minors in the School of
Environmental Sustainability; Junior or Senior Standing; Department
Consent Required   
Epidemiology is the study of the distribution and determinants of
disease in populations and remains the basic science of public health.
This methodology is unique to epidemiology, and in some cases, has
even been appropriated by other ﬁelds. The objective of this course
is to familiarize students with the range of tools used to conduct
epidemiologic analysis, including design and measures of association.
This course will be taught as an online course combined with an  intensive
interactive session with faculty and students one weekend in Spring.
Course equivalencies:  X- PUBH 303/ENVS 303/MPBH 403   
ENVS 310   Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 101 or ENVS 137   
This introduction to environmental law surveys some critical federal
environmental statutes, rules, and regulations in the United States;
important case law decided under those statutes; interaction between
federal, state, and local jurisdictions; and impacts on air, land, water, and
natural resources.
Outcomes:
Understands how the natural environment is controlled, managed and
promoted through the legal system
ENVS 311   Natural Resources and Land Use Law & Policy   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 101 or ENVS 137; and ENVS 310 (recommended)   
Focus on legal and policy processes used to govern pollution, water use,
endangered species, toxic substances, and environmental impact and
risk.
Outcomes:
Students will understand how the natural environment is controlled,
managed and promoted through the legal system and how land use laws
and policy impact social and economic issues
ENVS 312   Water Law & Policy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 101 or ENVS 137; and ENVS 310 (recommended)   
This course looks at how the law allocates and protects one of our
most crucial natural resources -- water. Understanding development and
regulation of water ownership and use and how those decisions impact
current environmental and socio-economic issues.
Outcomes:
Understand how key laws and policies impact protection and use of
water in the United States; understand key legal concepts that shape the
management of our water resources
ENVS 313   Energy Law & Policy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 101 or ENVS 137; and ENVS 310 (recommended)   
This course looks at the laws that shape traditional energy production
and the growing regulation of renewable and sustainable energy.
Outcomes:
Understand how key laws and policies impact production and use of
energy; and how energy is controlled by federal and local regulations and
policies

--- Page 892 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 923
ENVS 316   Energy and Power Systems   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior or Senior standing; MATH 118   
This course introduces the fundamental concepts of energy and
power systems, covering essential principles, grid components, and
generation technologies through a multidisciplinary lens. Students will
explore current and future challenges in energy systems by applying
mathematical tools, software, and programming to analyze the topics
covered.
Outcomes:
Comprehend Basic Energy and Electrical Concepts: Explain the
fundamental principles of electricity, energy, power, voltage, current, and
resistance; Differential Generation Technologies: Compare and contrast
conventional and renewable generation technologies, and assess
their environmental, economic, and social impacts; Understand Grid
Operations: Explain the basics of power flow analysis, load balancing,
and grid operation; Analyze Energy Markets and Pricing: Discuss how
electricity markets function, how electricity is priced, and how the grid
is managed; Assess Further Grid Challenges: Evaluate the challenges
of integrating renewable energy sources, managing load shifting,
and electrifying other sectors, while considering social and equity
implications; Apply Long-Term Grid Planning Tools: Identify and apply
tools and methodologies used in generation expansion planning, and
assess strategic considerations for achieving long-term goals in energy
systems
ENVS 320   Conservation Biology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 280 and ENVS 286/s; or BIOL 265 and 266   
Students will learn to apply ecological and evolutionary biological
principles to the preservation of wild plant/animal species, and to the
preservation/management of ecosystems. Conservation approaches and
challenges for all types of ecosystems, will be covered, with emphasis
on contemporary threats to biodiversity, including habitat fragmentation,
invasive species, and climate change.
Outcomes:
Students will understand how the science of ecology can be used to
address issues in species/ecosystem conservation, and recognize that
consideration of human actions is essential to address conservation
problems
ENVS 321   Conservation Biology Lab   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 280 and ENVS 286/s; or BIOL 265 and 266; and
ENVS 320 (pre- or co-requisite)   
Students will apply principles learned in ENVS 320 to conservation
problems in the Chicago region and elsewhere, through visits to
conservation sites and discuss concerns/initiatives with land managers
and policy makers. They will develop skills in species identiﬁcation,
ecosystem delineation and description, and the use of ﬁeld equipment
and methods.
Outcomes:
This course will provide practical ﬁeld and lab experience in population,
community and ecosystem conservation; Students will learn how the
principles of Conservation Biology are applied, and the associated
challengesENVS 322   Invasive Species   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 280 or BIOL 265   
Invasive species are one of the greatest global threats to biodiversity,
ecosystem function, economies, and human health. Species become
invasive when moved beyond native range, become established, and
cause harm. This course covers how species are moved, how and when
they become established, and potential harm they can cause.
Outcomes:
Understanding that because invasive species are moved by humans, and
because many of their impacts are felt by humans, they are an inherently
multi-disciplinary problem
ENVS 323   Environmental Microbiology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  BIOL 101, BIOL 102, CHEM 101, and (CHEM 102 or
ENVS 274)   
This course introduces the signiﬁcant role of microorganisms in
numerous environmental and human-engineered processes. It covers
microbiology and its basic methods to orient students to this ﬁeld of
science and the importance of microbial diversity relevant to agriculture,
public health, and ecological restoration.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  ENVS 323/ENVS 423   
Outcomes:
Students will learn to isolate and characterize environmental
microorganisms; Students will investigate the role of microorganisms in
nutrient cycling, remediation of soils, and transmission of existing and
emerging pathogens
ENVS 324   Climate Science   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 224 and MATH 118   
The focus of this course is Earth's climate system, including the role of
the atmosphere, ocean, cryosphere and land-atmosphere interaction.
This course digs deeper into the physical principles underlying climate
processes, energy balance, feedback mechanisms, climate variability
and climate dynamics, including large-scale atmospheric and ocean
circulation. This course will discuss recent climate change, and
projections for future climate scenarios. Students will have hands-on
experience with practicing climate modelling tools, analyzing climate
data, and exploring current research in climate science. Thus, this course
will involve quantitative analysis and will reinforce students' reading,
writing, and public-speaking skills through the class project on climate
change.
Outcomes:
Understand Earth's Climate Systems: Students will gain an in-depth
understanding of Earth's climate system, including the atmosphere,
ocean, cryosphere, and land-atmosphere interactions, as well as the
physical principles underlying climate processes such as energy balance,
feedback mechanisms, and climate variability; Develop Quantitative
Analysis Skills: Students will engage in quantitative analysis through
climate modeling tools and data interpretation, enabling them to critically
analyze climate data and understand large-scale climate dynamics like
atmospheric and ocean circulation; Evaluate Climate Change Impacts
and Projections: Students will explore recent scientiﬁc developments in
climate change, assess current climate change impacts, and understand
projections for future climate scenarios, preparing them to engage in
informed discussions and decision-making related to climate policy
and research; Enhance Communication and Research Skills: Through
scientiﬁc paper reviews and presentations, students will enhance their
ability to critically evaluate research, improve their public-speaking
skills, and effectively communicate scientiﬁc ﬁndings to peers, fostering
collaboration and scientiﬁc literacy

--- Page 893 ---
924  School of Environmental Sustainability
ENVS 325   Sustainable Agriculture   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 280 or BIOL 265   
This course provides an introduction to the environmental, social,
and economic implications of sustainable agriculture. Students will
learn the origins, major concepts, and current issues of sustainability
in agriculture. Ecological concepts and principles applied to manage
sustainable food production to support community health and economic
justice will be explored.
Outcomes:
Students will be able to explain the characteristics of the US agricultural
system, the inter-relation among components of sustainable agriculture,
and steps necessary to develop a sustainable agricultural system
ENVS 326   Agroecosystems   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 280 and ENVS 286/s; or BIOL 265 and 266; and
ENVS 223 (recommended)   
In this hands-on course, students will build knowledge and skills
in agriculture and ecology through work in greenhouse, laboratory,
classroom, and ﬁeld settings. Students will build on foundations of
Environmental Science and Biology by examining challenges of food
production, management decisions, and environmental change facing
agroecosystems both locally and abroad.
Outcomes:
Students will develop understanding of agricultural systems as related
to sustainable practices, develop skills in ecological analysis of these
systems, and demonstrate proﬁciency in communicating scientiﬁc
information to diverse audiences
ENVS 327   Food Systems Analysis   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 203   
This course links conceptual and practical considerations of food-system
assessment and develop a base of tools for practitioners. It examines
major elements of the assessment process: systems thinking and
conceptual frameworks; the food system from consumer and producer
perspectives; identifying leverage points that might be influenced to
affect positive change.
Outcomes:
Students will understand inter-relationships among environment, food
supply, markets, American diets, and health, learn to analyze assessment
methods for food-system sectors, and examine conceptual frameworks
for food-system analysis
ENVS 330   Restoration Ecology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 280 and ENVS 286/s; or BIOL 265 and 266   
This course provides a theoretical and practical basis for the increasing
global efforts to reverse damage caused by humans to ecosystems and
species, emphasizing the many perspectives (e.g., ecological, social,
political, engineering) that must be considered to develop, implement, and
assess restoration projects across a range of ecosystem types.
Outcomes:
Students will apply knowledge from ecology and other disciplines to the
practice of ecosystem restoration, and learn to integrate information from
multiple disciplines, and stakeholder input, to design/manage restoration
projectsENVS 331   Restoration Ecology Lab   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 280 and 286/s; or BIOL 265 and 266; and ENVS 330
(pre- or co-requisite)   
Students will apply principles learned in ENVS 330 to restoration sites
in Chicago and beyond. They will visit restoration sites and discuss
strategies and initiatives with land managers and policy makers.
Students will develop skills in ecological-site description, and in the
analytical methods required to determine success of restoration projects.
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of how the science of restoration
ecology is applied in practical settings and learn methods used in
restoration and assessment of actual restoration projects
ENVS 333   Introduction to the Circular Economy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 101 or ENVS 137; or MGMT 201 for Quinlan School of
Business students   
This course introduces principles and concepts of a circular economy
that can support a more sustainable future. The course reviews circular
design, materials management, business models, supply chains, p olicy,
ﬁnancing, metrics, and applications. This course may include speakers
and/or ﬁeld trips to learn about companies with circular business
practices.
Outcomes:
Explain circular economy; identify applications of circularity; understand
role of policy, ﬁnance, and design in system-wide change; understand
social, environmental, economic impacts of linear economic system
ENVS 335   Ecological Economics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ECON 201 or ECON 202   
Ecological Economics is a trans disciplinary course that takes a systems
approach to the relationship between planetary stewardship, social
justice, and the economy to design a prosperous and desirable future
for humans on a ﬁnite planet. Ecological economics fuses economic
theory and sustainability science to generate new solutions for today's
challenges. Topics include sustainable scale, just distribution, efﬁcient
allocation and relationships between economic and ecological systems.
Outcomes:
Understanding of ecological economics history, conceptual foundations,
principles, tools, indicators, and applications
ENVS 336   Design for Circular & Sustainable Business   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 101 or ENVS 137; or MGMT 201 for Quinlan School of
Business students   
This project-based course focuses on solving complex human
sustainability challenges through the application of sustainable design
methods at the product and process level. Students will learn and apply
biomimicry, circular, and human-centered design methods to develop
conceptual and prototype solutions. Understand and apply: (1) circular
design methods (2) biomimicry design methods; and (3) human-centered
design (design thinking) methods.
Outcomes:
Understand the role of design in creating a sustainable future

--- Page 894 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 925
ENVS 338   Climate Change and Human Health   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 101 or ENVS 137 or BIOL 101; Restricted to Majors
and Minors in the School of Environmental Sustainability; Junior or
Senior Standing   
This course provides an introduction overview of the health
consequences associated with climate change and the local, federal, and
global response to mitigate these negative health outcomes. During the
course students will be expected incorporate course content and  develop
a realistic response public health plan to climate change for a locality of
their choosing.
Outcomes:
1) Outline fundamental public health concerns that have been associated
with climate change; 2) Identify and critique future steps forward to
reduce public health concerns of climate change
ENVS 340   Natural History of Belize   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  For SES majors and minors, ENVS 101 or ENVS 137; For
BIOL majors and minors, BIOL 102 and BIOL 112; For ANTH or GLST
majors and minors, Junior or Senior Standing   
This Study Abroad ﬁeld course is designed to build on the foundations
learned in Ecology, Environmental Science, and Anthropology classes by
examining the biodiversity and tropical ecosystems of Belize, by exploring
the cultural traditions of some of its peoples, particularly the Mayans; and
learn how local communities are involved in protecting and sustaining
ecological and natural sites through community based conservation and
sustainability practices.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  X - ENVS 340 /BIOL 340   
Outcomes:
Provide a working understanding of the structure, function, and ecology
of tropical ecosystems; their importance to local communities; and the
social dimensions of environmental issues, especially those related to
justice
ENVS 345   Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical Ecosystems   (3
Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 280 or BIOL 265; Instructor Consent Required   
This course provides an introduction to conservation ecology in
Neotropical ecosystems via classroom sessions and experiential learning
activities during a Spring-Break ﬁeld trip to Belize. Students will gain
experience in environmental monitoring and biological survey methods.
Ecosystems studied: coral reefs, mangrove forests, subtropical rain and
dry forests, savannas, rivers, wetlands.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  X- ENVS 345/ BIOL 349   
Outcomes:
Students will gain an understanding of tropical climates, neotropical
terrestrial/aquatic ecosystems and applied conservation and
environmental practices such as nature reserve design and management,
community-based resource management, ecotourism, and ecoagricultureENVS 350A   Solutions to Environmental Problems: Water   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 101 or ENVS 137 or BIOL 101   
’STEP : Water' is an interdisciplinary and hands-on course in which
students learn about a relevant and complex environmental problems
pertaining to water and then develop and implement projects that
address the problem on campus and in the local community.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will develop understanding of water-related environmental
problems, demonstrate skills/knowledge needed to address those
problems, and develop skills to recognize/articulate future possibilities
for environmental leadership and civic engagement
ENVS 350B   Solutions to Environmental Problems: Biogas   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 101 or ENVS 137 or BIOL 101   
’STEP : Biogas' is an interdisciplinary and hands-on course in which
students learn about a relevant and complex environmental problems
pertaining to biogas production, processing and transport and then
develop and implement projects that address the problem on campus and
in the local community.
Outcomes:
Students will develop understanding of environmental problems related
to biogas, demonstrate skills/knowledge needed to address those
problems, and develop skills to recognize/articulate future possibilities
for environmental leadership and civic engagement
ENVS 350C   Solutions to Environmental Problems: Climate Action   (3
Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 101 or ENVS 137 or BIOL 101; and ENVS 224
(recommended)   
Consideration of environmental, political, economic, historical, and
cultural contexts of climate change. Examination of actions occurring
at varying geographic scales to mitigate and/or adapt to climate change
impacts. Problem- and solution-based learning of how to invest resources
effectively to deal with a changing climate and its consequences.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Develop understanding of environmental problems related to climate
change, demonstrate skills/knowledge needed to address those
problems and recognize/articulate future possibilities for environmental
leadership/civic engagement
ENVS 350F   Solutions to Environmental Problems: Food Systems   (3
Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 101 or ENVS 137 or BIOL 101   
’STEP : Food Systems' is an interdisciplinary and hands-on course in which
students learn about a relevant and complex environmental problems
pertaining to food production, processing and transport and then develop
and implement projects that address the problem on campus and in the
local community.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will develop understanding of environmental problems related
to food systems, demonstrate skills/knowledge needed to address those
problems, and develop skills to recognize/articulate future possibilities
for environmental leadership and civic engagement

--- Page 895 ---
926  School of Environmental Sustainability
ENVS 351   Introduction to Sustainability Concepts & Impacts   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 101 or ENVS 137 or BIOL 101   
Examines environmental, economic, social and political impacts
of sustainable practices on general public and global and local
organizations. Provides students with understanding of importance to
corporations and other entities of measuring, monitoring, and reporting
resource use to customers and stakeholders.
Outcomes:
Explaining basic concepts of sustainability and how they relate to
operations and goals of institutions and organizations; interaction of
social, economic, and ecological systems to influence sustainability
challenges and solutions
ENVS 352   Sustainability Assessment & Reporting I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 351   
Fundamental concepts and methodology of measuring and reporting
environmental sustainability impacts in the areas of energy, air, buildings
and transportation.
Outcomes:
Ability to assess and report sustainability metrics related to energy, air,
buildings, and transportation
ENVS 353   Sustainability Assessment & Reporting II   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 351   
Fundamental concepts and methodology of measuring and reporting
environmental sustainability impacts in the areas of water, land, food and
waste. Environmental and social impacts of water use and sources, land
use practices, food sourcing and production, and waste production and
recovery.
Outcomes:
Ability to assess and report sustainability metrics related to water, land,
food, and waste
ENVS 354   Sustainability Plan Development & Reporting   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 351, ENVS 352, and ENVS 353   
Capstone course in the four course sequence on Sustainability
Assessment & Planning. Using concepts and methodology to create a
comprehensive sustainability plan including stakeholder engagement, life
cycle analyses, set resource baselines, short- and long-term sustainability
goals, budgets and draft sustainability plan for a representative entity.
Outcomes:
Learn best practices to inspire and engage partners and stakeholders to
advance environmental sustainability in different types of organizations;
Ability to create a comprehensive sustainability plan for organizations
and institutions
ENVS 363   Sustainable Business Management   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 101 or ENVS 137; or MGMT 201 for Quinlan School of
Business students   
Course introduces students to the emerging ﬁeld of sustainability
in business and the growing focus on the social, environmental, and
economic performance of businesses. The course presents the scientiﬁc,
ethical, and business cases for adopting sustainability. This course fulﬁlls
a MGMT elective.
Course equivalencies:  ENVS 363/ENVS 463   
Outcomes:
Understand the dimensions of sustainability; understand economics
for sustainability; understand the tools and techniques to apply
sustainability in each functional area of the businessENVS 367   Mammalogy   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 280 or BIOL 265   
This course will focus on the ecology, evolution, behavior, and
conservation of the class, Mammalia. Students will gain insight how this
unique group evolved over time and became the dominate lineage over
the Tertiary period. Furthermore, we will investigate how mammals hold
special social and cultural relationship with humans, and why we have
such complicated relationships with mammals, from revering them in
religious contexts, to keeping them in our homes, to consuming them as
nutrition.
Outcomes:
Working knowledge and mastery of the traits, evolutionary timescale,
ecology, and conservation of mammals; Students will also gain
experience collecting data (on museum samples as well as observations
of living samples) to learn current techniques scientists and
conservationists use to advance our understanding of this group
ENVS 369   Field Ornithology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 280 and ENVS 286/s; or BIOL 265 and 266; and
BIOL 215 (recommended)   
Field ornithology is an intensive 3-week engaged-learning course at the
Loyola University Retreat and Ecology Campus during the peak of the
migratory season intended to provide an introduction to the theory and
practice of ﬁeld ornithology. Emphasis will be on ﬁeld identiﬁcation and
song recognition, census techniques, and avian behavior.
Course equivalencies:  X- ENVS 369/BIOL 348   
Outcomes:
Students will become skilled in critical reasoning, ﬁeld techniques, and
scientiﬁc investigation that demonstrate an understanding of knowledge
and techniques used in ﬁeld ornithology
ENVS 380   Introduction to Geographic Information Systems   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Restricted to Junior and Senior standing   
Geographic Information Systems (GIS) is a mapping tool that allows
users to create interactive searches, analyze spatial information, edit data
and maps, and present the results visually. The course includes lecture,
laboratory, and project components. Students will learn basic GIS skills
and applications and work on projects with community organizations.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Urban Studies   
Course equivalencies:  ENVS380/ENVS480   
Outcomes:
Describe the conceptual/theoretical and practical/technological
background of GIS; Describe ethical issues germane to GIS; Prepare/
analyze GIS data in research; Apply GIS in community-service projects
ENVS 381   Advanced GIS Applications   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 380 and Restricted to Junior and Senior standing   
Students in this course will learn tools required to solve complex
environmental problems and gain experience with spatial analysis,
network analysis, 3-D analysis, GIS modeling, geostatistics, and other
ArcGIS extensions. Students will also learn about internet-based mapping
for dissemination of spatial data.
Outcomes:
Understand various spatial relationship concepts and their applications;
identify and address common methodological challenges; understand
how to use spatial data to make sound arguments in spatial problem
solving and planning/policy

--- Page 896 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 927
ENVS 382   Remote Sensing   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 101 or ENVS 137 or BIOL 101; Restricted to Juniors
and Seniors   
Science of obtaining information about objects or areas using data from
remote sensors on satellites or mounted on aircraft that can detect
energy reflected from Earth. Topics include data collection; digital
image processing, assessment, evaluation, and enhancement; display
alternatives and visualization; electromagnetic radiation principles and
radiometric correction; and geometric correction.
Outcomes:
Understand concepts, data, and methods of remotely sensed geographic
data; Learn how to obtain and analyze remote sensing data, produce
thematic maps, learn landscape patterns, and methods to decipher them
ENVS 383   Human Dimensions of Conservation   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 101 or ENVS 137 or BIOL 101   
This course will increase student knowledge of the social, political,
economic, psychological, and cultural dimensions that influence the
success of conservation projects and develop skills in conducting
human dimensions-inquiry using surveys, interviews, observation, and/or
participatory methods. It will contribute to preparation for employment in
the conservation ﬁeld and/or graduate study.
Outcomes:
Students will understand the importance of treating the human
dimensions of conservation problems with the same scientiﬁc rigor
customarily given to the ecological dimensions
ENVS 384   Conservation Economics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ECON 201   
Explores resource conservation issues using economic principles.
Topics include management of forests, wildlife and mineral resources;
the demand for parks and outdoor recreation; the debate between
environmental preservation and conservation; valuation of ecosystem
services; the economics of biodiversity and endangered species; and
policies to promote conservation in agriculture.
Outcomes:
Students will learn how natural resource use is affected by economic
values, how to critically evaluate natural resource management
problems, and evaluate models of dynamic resource extraction and user
preferences
ENVS 385   Introduction to Global Health   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 101 or ENVS 137 or BIOL 101   
This course introduces students to epidemiological and policy aspects of
global health with a focus on health disparities at the interna tional level.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Course equivalencies:  X-HSM210/PUBH314/ENVS385   
Outcomes:
Understand approaches to existing and emerging health problems and
the relationships between health, poverty, and development
ENVS 386   Python Programming for GIS   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior or Senior Standing   
This course aims to provide students with a comprehensive
understanding of Python programming for Geographic Information
Systems. Through a combination of lectures, hands-on exercises, and
projects, students will develop the skills necessary to leverage Python
in GIS applications, automate geospatial workflows, and analyze spatial
data. ENVS 380 pre- or co-requisite
Outcomes:
Understand Python programming language, loops and conditional
statements; acquire a foundation knowledge of GIS; apply Python
programming skills to perform spatial analysis; develop Python scripts to
automate common GIS tasksENVS 387   Principles of Ecotoxicology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 280 or BIOL 265; and ENVS 274   
This course will provide information on how pollutants affect ecosystems
and how we might ameliorate their negative effects in our world. The
emphasis of this course will be the fate and effects of pollutants in
the ecosystem. The effects will be from molecular level to individual
organism, community, and ecosystem levels.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Outcomes:
This course will provide students with scientiﬁc knowledge in the cause
and effects of pollutants in ecosystems and to prepare them for graduate
study/future career
ENVS 389   Ecological Risk Assessment   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENVS 274 and ENVS 275   
This course covers the area of potential effects of pollutants to
ecosystems and practices on risk assessment for pollutants based
on exposure and effect data in the literature. Different approaches for
assessing the potential ecological impacts and risks of pollutants in
support of environmental management will be discussed and practiced.
Outcomes:
Learn toxic effects of pollutants, acquire, organize, and synthesize
monitoring and effect data using advanced analysis methods and skills in
support of environmental impact and risk assessment via case studies
ENVS 390   Integrative Seminar   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course requires students to focus on a speciﬁc environmental issue
or theme, integrating multidisciplinary perspectives, through individual or
group presentations, discussion, and analysis of presentations by outside
speakers.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the multi-faceted and
interdisciplinary nature of environmental issues
ENVS 391   Environmental Research   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Students may register for independent research on a topic mutually
acceptable to the student and any professor in the department. Usually
this research is directed to a particular course or to the research of the
professor. Enrollment Conditions: Administrative Permission.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to design and carry out the research that is original
and meaningful, including data collection, analysis, and interp retation
ENVS 391C   Independent Environmental Research (Capstone)   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Senior standing and Instructor Consent   
Fulﬁlls capstone requirement for SES majors. Through independent
research experience, examine how scientiﬁc, sociological, economic and
political knowledge and perspectives interact and deﬁne environmental
problems and solutions/mitigation efforts. Research projects must use a
multi-disciplinary perspective in analysis and interpretation.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Design and carry out research that is original and meaningful, including
data collection, analysis, and interpretation

--- Page 897 ---
928  Environmental Action and Leadership Minor
ENVS 391L   Independent Environmental Research-Lab   (1-3 Credit
Hours)   
Students may register for independent research on a topic mutually
acceptable to the student and any professor in the department. Usually
this research is directed to a particular course or to the research of
the professor. This version is used when funds must be drawn from a
'lab fees' budget line to conduct the research. Requires Administrative
Permission to enroll.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to design and carry out research that is original and
meaningful, including data collection, analysis, and interpretation
ENVS 395   Environmental Internship   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students seek out and engage in a semester- or summer-long internship
with a civic, business, governmental, or academic group providing hands-
on experience in work on environmental issues.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  ENVS395/ESP395/NTSC395   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate, through daily activity logs and a
comprehensive ﬁnal report, a clear understanding of the environmental
context and practical applications of their internship experience
ENVS 395C   Environmental Internship (Capstone)   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Senior standing and Department Consent   
Fulﬁlls capstone requirement for SES majors. Through internship
experience, students reflect upon academic and extra-curricular
activities in their degree program and learn how scientiﬁc, sociological,
economic and political knowledge and perspectives interact and deﬁne
environmental problems and solutions/mitigation efforts.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Guided reflection on relationship between coursework and internship
experience, relate learning to speciﬁc activities and experiences in the
internship, assess value of internship to future career plans
ENVS 398   Special Topics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Speciﬁc titles and contents vary from semester to semester.
ENVS 398B   Environmental Science Topics for BIET Minor Capstone   (3
Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Two Science courses and two Ethics courses   
The interdisciplinary team-taught Bioethics capstone course examines
a topic in bioethics from both scientiﬁc and ethical points of view.
Topics may include biotechnologies, concepts of race and gender, the
environment, reproduction, and others. This course number provides
a cross-listed elective for Environmental Science students when the
Bioethics capstone's topic is environmental.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioethics   
Outcomes:
Students will understand the connection between ethical and
environmental science issues with regard to the special topic in
environmental science
ENVS 398L   Special Topics with Lab   (1-4 Credit Hours)   
Speciﬁc titles and contents vary from semester to semester. Includes lab
component.ENVS 399   Directed Readings   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Instructor Consent   
Directed by an ESP faculty member, students will read, analyze, and
discuss a publications focusing on different aspects of a speciﬁc
environmental issue or theme.
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate comprehension of, and the ability to
apply information from, scientiﬁc literature and be able to synthesize
information to produce a cogent, synthetic analysis of their topic based
on these readings
Environmental Action and Leadership
Minor
The Environmental Action & Leadership Minor provides knowledge of and
insight into environmental issues, and develops skills in communication,
group management and leadership to facilitate action toward solving
environmental problems and the development of sustainable practices in
society.
Related Programs
Minor
•Sustainability Management Minor  (p. 796)
Curriculum
Requirements:  7 courses (21 credit hours); at least 3 courses must be
ENVS.  A maximum of 3 courses can count toward this minor and an SES
major.
Code Title Hours
Background & Perspective  1Select two of the following:6
ANTH 104 The Human Ecological FootprintENVS 204Gender, Health & EnvironmentENVS 207 Plants and CivilizationENVS 215OrnithologyENVS 218 Biodiversity & BiogeographyENVS 223Soil EcologyENVS 224 Climate & Climate ChangeENVS 226Science & Conservation of Freshwater EcosystemsENVS 237 Foundations of Environmental Science IIENVS 267Bird Conservation and EcologyENVS 273 Energy and The EnvironmentENVS 280Principles of EcologyENVS 283 Environmental SustainabilityENVS 340Natural History of BelizeENVS 369 Field OrnithologyEthics & SocietySelect one of the following: 3COMM 227Social Justice & CommunicationENGL 288 Nature in LiteratureENVS 204Gender, Health & EnvironmentENVS 279 Climate and HistoryENVS 284Environmental Justice

--- Page 898 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 929
ENVS 297 /
HIST 297ENorth American Environmental HistoryPHIL 287Environmental EthicsPSYC 275 Social PsychologySOCL 234City, Suburbs & BeyondSOCL 261 Social Movements & Social ChangeSOCL 272Environmental Sociology (moved from PLA)SOCL 276 The Sociology and Politics of FoodTHEO 204Religious Ethics and the Ecological CrisisTHEO 344 Theology and EcologyPolicy, Leadership & ActionSelect three of the following: 9COMM 260Environmental JournalismCOMM 268 PersuasionCOMM 306Environmental AdvocacyECON 328 Environmental Economics
or ENVS 335 Ecological EconomicsENVS 283Environmental SustainabilityENVS 310 Introduction to Environmental Law & PolicyENVS 311Natural Resources and Land Use Law & PolicyENVS 312 Water Law & PolicyENVS 313Energy Law & PolicyENVS 333 Introduction to the Circular EconomyENVS 335Ecological EconomicsENVS 336 Design for Circular & Sustainable BusinessENVS 363Sustainable Business ManagementENVS 383 Human Dimensions of ConservationGLST 305Globalization and Environmental SustainabilityMGMT 201 Managing People and OrganizationsMGMT 320Leading and Managing TeamsPLSC 354 Global Environmental PoliticsPLSC 392Environmental PoliticsMethods & ApplicationSelect one of the following:3
ENVS 350A Solutions to Environmental Problems: WaterENVS 350BSolutions to Environmental Problems: BiogasENVS 350C Solutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
ActionENVS 350FSolutions to Environmental Problems: Food
SystemsENVS 380 Introduction to Geographic Information SystemsENVS 382Remote SensingENVS 391 Environmental ResearchENVS 395Environmental InternshipSOCL 301 Statistics for Social ResearchSTAT 303SAS Programming & Applied StatisticsSTAT 335 /
BIOL 335Introduction to BiostatisticsTotal Hours211All ENVS 200-level courses, except COMM 260 , ENVS 279 , ENVS 284 ,
and  ENVS 297 , have  ENVS 101  or ENVS 137  as a pre-requisite;
ENVS 280  also has ENVS 237  as a pre-requisite.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework. An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study. Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year Three
Fall
Background & Perspectives Elective 3Ethics & Society Elective3 Hours6
SpringBackground & Perspectives Elective3Policy, Leadership, & Action Elective3 Hours6
Year Four
Fall
Policy, Leadership, & Action Elective 3Methods & Applications Elective3 Hours6
SpringPolicy, Leadership, & Action Elective3 Hours3 Total Hours21
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Learning Outcomes
•Demonstrate an understanding of scientiﬁc, social, and humanistic
approaches to environmental questions.
•Appraise the interactions and synergies between the natural world,
social systems, and human cultures.
•Advance environmental and social sustainability that integrates
scientiﬁc research, social analysis, and cultural awareness.
Environmental Economics &
Sustainability
•Environmental Economics & Sustainability: Governance (BA)
(p. 930)
•Environmental Economics & Sustainability: Governance/
Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)  (p. 1099 )
•Environmental Economics & Sustainability: Management (BA)
(p. 931)

--- Page 899 ---
930  Environmental Economics & Sustainability: Governance (BA)
•Environmental Economics & Sustainability: Management/
Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)  (p. 1103 )
•Environmental Economics and Sustainability Minor  (p. 933)
Environmental Economics &
Sustainability: Governance (BA)
The Environmental Economics and Sustainability major provides
students rigorous training in economics and awareness of sustainability
challenges, including global climate change, food production,
environmental conservation, and social justice. Training in economics
provides knowledge of how individuals and governments make decisions
and the ways in which the economy can be structured and managed for
the common good, training that is a crucial part of solving sustainability
challenges. The Governance concentration is intended for students
seeking a career in government, non-governmental organization (NGO), or
law.
Related Programs
Major
•Environmental Economics Sustainability: Management (BA)  (p. 931)
•Environmental Policy (BA)  (p. 934)
Minor
•Environmental Economics and Sustainability Minor  (p. 933)
Curriculum 
Code Title Hours
Environmental Economics & Sustainability: Governance CoreENVS 137Foundations of Environmental Science I3
ENVS 200 Environmental Careers and Professional Skills 1ENVS 237Foundations of Environmental Chemistry3
ENVS 238 Foundations of Environmental Science Lab 1ENVS 280Principles of Ecology3
ENVS 286 Principles of Ecology Lab 1ENVS 283Environmental Sustainability3
ECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics 3ECON 202Principles of Macroeconomics3
ECON 303 Intermediate Microeconomics 3ENVS 335Ecological Economics3
PLSC 392 Environmental Politics 3MATH 130Business Calculus3-4or MATH 131Applied Calculus Ior MATH 161Calculus I
STAT 103 Fundamentals of Statistics 3
or ISSCM 241 Business Statistics
or ENVS 203 Environmental StatisticsENVS 284Environmental Justice3or PHIL 287Environmental Ethicsor THEO 204Religious Ethics and the Ecological Crisis
Governance Concentration Required CoursesECON 328Environmental Economics3
ENVS 310 Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy 3Capstone ChoiceENVS 390 Integrative Seminar 3
or ENVS 391C Independent Environmental Research (Capstone)
or ENVS 395C Environmental Internship (Capstone)Governance Concentration Electives  (p. 930)12See designated elective caterogies belowTotal Hours60-61
Electives
Code Title Hours
List ASelect two of the following:6
ECON 320 Urban EconomicsECON 325Economics of Growth & DevelopmentECON 329 Health EconomicsECON 334Economics of Government Expenditures &
TaxationECON 346 EconometricsList BSelect two of the following: 6ENVS 311Natural Resources and Land Use Law & PolicyENVS 312 Water Law & PolicyENVS 313Energy Law & PolicyENVS 327 Food Systems AnalysisENVS 384Conservation EconomicsTotal Hours12
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework. An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study. Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year One
FallENVS 137Foundations of Environmental Science I3 Hours3
Spring
ENVS 203 Environmental Statistics 3ENVS 237Foundations of Environmental Chemistry3
ENVS 238 Foundations of Environmental Science Lab 1Justice & Ethics Choice3 Hours10
Year Two
FallECON 201Principles of Microeconomics3
ENVS 200 Environmental Careers and Professional
Skills1ENVS 280Principles of Ecology3ENVS 286Principles of Ecology Lab1 Hours8

--- Page 900 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 931
SpringECON 202Principles of Macroeconomics3 Hours3
Year Three
Fall
ECON 328 
or ENVS 310Environmental Economics 
or Introduction to Environmental Law &
Policy3ENVS 335Ecological Economics3MATH 131 
or MATH 161Applied Calculus I 
or Calculus I3-4 Hours9
Spring
ECON 303 Intermediate Microeconomics 3ECON 328 
or ENVS 310Environmental Economics 
or Introduction to Environmental Law &
Policy3PLSC 392Environmental Politics3 Hours9
Year Four
Fall
ENVS 283 Environmental Sustainability 3Governance Elective List A3Governance Elective List B3 Hours9
Spring
Capstone Choice 3Governance Elective List A3Governance Elective List B3 Hours9 Total Hours60
School of Environmental Sustainability
Graduation Requirements
All SES students are required to complete a foreign language requirement
and a writing intensive requirement. The SES language requirement
can be fulﬁlled by 1) earning college credit at the 102-level or above; or
2) demonstrating proﬁciency via the SES foreign language proﬁciency
examination. The SES writing intensive requirement is fulﬁlled by
successfully completing two Loyola WI courses (max of one per
semester). Writing intensive courses have a “W” in the section number.
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Explain the interconnections between human development, the
economy, and the environment.•Understand how economic theory and analysis can be used to
evaluate social and economic outcomes.
•Describe how policy affects business and economic activity to
achieve human development and environmental sustainability goals
•Analyze how policy interventions can shift an economy to achieve a
balance of ecological and socioeconomic objectives.
SES Shared Learning Outcomes
All SES majors share the following Program Learning Objectives, in
addition to their unique major-speciﬁc Program Learning Objectives:
1. Articulate the foundational principles of natural and social sciences
and humanities essential to solving environmental problems.
2. Critically evaluate the accuracy and credibility of information relating to
environmental topics.
3. Employ knowledge and skills to design and implement solutions that
contribute to a just and sustainable world.
4. Exemplify the values of environmental and social justice through
actions to care for our common home and one another.
Environmental Economics &
Sustainability: Management (BA)
The Environmental Economics and Sustainability major provides
students rigorous training in economics and awareness of sustainability
challenges, including global climate change, food production,
environmental conservation, and social justice. Training in economics
provides knowledge of how individuals and governments make decisions
and the ways in which the economy can be structured and managed for
the common good, training that is a crucial part of solving sustainability
challenges. The Management concentration is intended for students
seeking a business or consulting career.
Related Programs
Minor
•Environmental Economics and Sustainability Minor  (p. 933)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Environmental Economics & Sustainability: Management CoreENVS 137Foundations of Environmental Science I3
ENVS 200 Environmental Careers and Professional Skills 1ENVS 237Foundations of Environmental Chemistry3
ENVS 238 Foundations of Environmental Science Lab 1ENVS 280Principles of Ecology3
ENVS 283 Environmental Sustainability 3ENVS 286Principles of Ecology Lab1
MATH 130 Business Calculus 3-4
or MATH 131 Applied Calculus I
or MATH 161 Calculus IECON 201Principles of Microeconomics3
ECON 202 Principles of Macroeconomics 3ECON 303Intermediate Microeconomics3
ENVS 335 Ecological Economics 3

--- Page 901 ---
932  Environmental Economics & Sustainability: Management (BA)PLSC 392Environmental Politics3
STAT 103 Fundamentals of Statistics 3
or ISSCM 241 Business Statistics
or ENVS 203 Environmental StatisticsENVS 284Environmental Justice3or PHIL 287Environmental Ethicsor THEO 204Religious Ethics and the Ecological Crisis
Management Concentration Required CoursesMGMT 201Managing People and Organizations3
ENVS 363 Sustainable Business Management 3Capstone ChoiceENVS 390 Integrative Seminar 3
or ENVS 391C Independent Environmental Research (Capstone)
or ENVS 395C Environmental Internship (Capstone)Management Concentration Electives  (p. 932)12See designated elective categories below.Total Hours60-61
Electives
Code Title Hours
List ASelect two of the following:ECON 328 Environmental Economics 3ECON 360Labor Economics3
ECON 346 Econometrics 3MARK 320Marketing for Environmental Sustainability3
SCMG 346 Sustainable Supply Chain 3List BSelect two of the following:ENVS 333Introduction to the Circular Economy3
ENVS 336 Design for Circular & Sustainable Business 3ENVS 384Conservation Economics3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student's completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major of graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year One
FallENVS 137Foundations of Environmental Science I3 Hours3
Spring
ENVS 203 Environmental Statistics 3ENVS 237Foundations of Environmental Chemistry3
ENVS 238 Foundations of Environmental Science Lab 1Justice & Ethics Choice3 Hours10
Year Two
FallECON 201Principles of Microeconomics3ENVS 200 Environmental Careers and Professional
Skills1ENVS 280Principles of Ecology3ENVS 286Principles of Ecology Lab1 Hours8
SpringECON 202Principles of Macroeconomics3 Hours3
Year Three
Fall
ECON 328 
or ENVS 310Environmental Economics 
or Introduction to Environmental Law &
Policy3ENVS 335Ecological Economics3MATH 131 
or MATH 161Applied Calculus I 
or Calculus I3-4 Hours9
Spring
ECON 303 Intermediate Microeconomics 3ECON 328 
or ENVS 310Environmental Economics 
or Introduction to Environmental Law &
Policy3PLSC 392Environmental Politics3 Hours9
Year Four
Fall
ENVS 283 Environmental Sustainability 3Management Elective List A3Management Elective List B3 Hours9
Spring
Capstone Choice 3Management Elective List A3Management Elective List B3 Hours9 Total Hours60
School of Environmental Sustainability
Graduation Requirements
All SES students are required to complete a foreign language requirement
and a writing intensive requirement. The SES language requirement
can be fulﬁlled by 1) earning college credit at the 102-level or above; or
2) demonstrating proﬁciency via the SES foreign language proﬁciency
examination. The SES writing intensive requirement is fulﬁlled by
successfully completing two Loyola WI courses (max of one per
semester). Writing intensive courses have a “W” in the section number.
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN

--- Page 902 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 933
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Explain the interconnection between human development, the
economy, and the environment
•Understand how economic theory and analysis can be used to
evaluate social and economic outcomes.
•Analyze how businesses can integrate environmental and social
considerations into decision-making that aligns ﬁnancial with
environmental sustainability.
•Describe the impacts of business and industry on social outcomes,
the economy, and environmental sustainability
SES Shared Learning Outcomes
All SES majors share the following Program Learning Objectives, in
addition to their unique major-speciﬁc Program Learning Objectives:
1. Articulate the foundational principles of natural and social sciences
and humanities essential to solving environmental problems.
2. Critically evaluate the accuracy and credibility of information relating to
environmental topics.
3. Employ knowledge and skills to design and implement solutions that
contribute to a just and sustainable world.
4. Exemplify the values of environmental and social justice through
actions to care for our common home and one another.
Environmental Economics and
Sustainability Minor
The Environmental Economics and Sustainability Minor provides a broad
understanding of how the environment and the economy are linked; to
prepare students for careers in government, consulting, law and for-
proﬁt business. The program also offers the essential courses to prepare
for a masters in environmental economics, agricultural economics or
environmental management.
Related Programs
Major
•Environmental Economics Sustainability: Management (BA)  (p. 931)
Curriculum
Requirements: 6 courses (18 hours); A maximum of 2 courses can count
toward this minor and any other major or minor.
Code Title Hours
Core ClassesECON 201Principles of Microeconomics3or ECON 202Principles of Macroeconomics
ENVS 335 Ecological Economics 3
or ECON 328 Environmental EconomicsSustainability ElectivesSelect two of the following: 6ENVS 283Environmental SustainabilityENVS 327 Food Systems AnalysisENVS 335Ecological Economics (if not taken as a minor Core
Class)ENVS 384 Conservation EconomicsENVS 388Economics ElectivesSelect two of the following:6
ECON 202 Principles of Macroeconomics (if not taken as a
minor Core Class)ECON 303Intermediate MicroeconomicsECON 320 Urban EconomicsECON 325Economics of Growth & DevelopmentECON 328 Environmental Economics (if not taken as a minor
Core Class)ECON 329Health EconomicsECON 346EconometricsTotal Hours18
ENVS PrerequisitesCoursePre-requisites
ENVS 327 ENVS 203 -or- STAT 103ENVS 335ECON 201
ENVS 384 ECON 201ENVS 388ENVS 203 -or- STAT 103
ECON PrerequisitesCoursePre-requisites
ECON 303 ECON 201 -and- ECON 202ECON 320ECON 201 -and- ECON 202
ECON 325 ECON 201 -and- ECON 202ECON 328ECON 201
ECON 329 ECON 201 -and- ECON 202ECON 346ECON 201, ECON 202, MATH 131, -and-
ISSCM 241
Students wishing to pursue graduate study in applied economics or related
ﬁeld should also take intermediate microeconomics ( ECON 303 Intermediate
Microeconomics ) and the calculus course sequence ( MATH 161 Calculus
I and  MATH 162 Calculus II ).
Suggested Sequence of Courses
Course Title Hours
Year Three
FallECON 201 
or ECON 202Principles of Microeconomics 
or Principles of Macroeconomics3 Hours3
SpringENVS 335 
or ECON 328Ecological Economics 
or Environmental Economics3 Hours3
Year Four
Fall
Sustainability Elective 3Economics Elective3 Hours6

--- Page 903 ---
934  Environmental Policy
SpringSustainability Elective3Economics Elective3 Hours6 Total Hours18
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Learning Outcomes
•Understand how the economy, the environment, and human
development goals are linked.
•Understand how economic theory and quantitative analysis can be
used to evaluate social and economic outcomes.
•Analyze who beneﬁts or is harmed by economic and environmental
policies; identify how beneﬁts and harms are distributed in a
population.
•Communicate with professionals about tradeoffs, property rights,
ecosystem services, values and related economic measures,
inequities, externalities, environmental degradation, and systems
thinking.
Environmental Policy
•Environmental Policy (BA)  (p. 934)
•Environmental Policy/Digital Media and Storytelling (BA/MC)
(p. 1108 )
•Environmental Policy/Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/
MS) (p. 1112 )
•Environmental Policy/Global Strategic Communication (BA/MS)
(p. 1117 )
•Environmental Policy/Public Policy (BA/MPP)  (p. 1122 )
Environmental Policy (BA)
Well-designed public policies are critical in maintaining and restoring
a healthy environment. Public policies influence air and water quality,
land use, biodiversity, and public health and shape crucial efforts to ﬁght
climate change. Our environmental policy program prepares students to
craft and implement public policies that promote ecological conservation,
environmental justice, and innovation toward a green economy.
Related Programs
Combined
•Environmental Policy/Digital Media and Storytelling (BA/MC)
(p. 1108 )
•Environmental Policy/Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/
MS) (p. 1112 )
•Environmental Policy/Global Strategic Communication (BA/MS)
(p. 1117 )
•Environmental Policy/Public Policy (BA/MPP)  (p. 1122 )Curriculum
Environmental Policy students complete coursework spanning a variety
of disciplines pertinent to the understanding of environmental issues.
Code Title Hours
Core CurriculumENVS 137Foundations of Environmental Science I3
ENVS 237 Foundations of Environmental Chemistry 3ENVS 238Foundations of Environmental Science Lab1
ENVS 200 Environmental Careers and Professional Skills 1ENVS 203Environmental Statistics3
ENVS 280 Principles of Ecology 3ENVS 286Principles of Ecology Lab1
ENVS 310 Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy 3PLSC 101American Politics3
PLSC 392 Environmental Politics 3Justice and Ethics ChoiceSelect one of the following: 3ENVS 284Environmental JusticePHIL 287 Environmental EthicsTHEO 204Religious Ethics and the Ecological CrisisEconomics ChoiceSelect one of the following:3
ENVS 335 Ecological Economics 3
or ECON 328 Environmental EconomicsEngaged Learning ChoiceSelect one of the following: 3ENVS 226Science & Conservation of Freshwater EcosystemsENVS 267 Bird Conservation and EcologyENVS 369Field OrnithologyENVS 273 Energy and the EnvironmentENVS 283Environmental SustainabilityENVS 340 Natural History of BelizeENVS 345Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
EcosystemsENVS 350A Solutions to Environmental Problems: WaterENVS 350BSolutions to Environmental Problems: BiogasENVS 350C Solutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
ActionENVS 350FSolutions to Environmental Problems: Food
SystemsENVS 391 Environmental ResearchENVS 395Environmental InternshipCapstone ChoiceSelect one of the following:3
ENVS 390 Integrative SeminarENVS 391CIndependent Environmental Research (Capstone)ENVS 395C Environmental Internship (Capstone)Electives  (p. 935)18See designated elective categories belowTotal Hours57

--- Page 904 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 935
Electives
Code Title Hours
Society, Ethics, and JusticeSelect one of the following:3
ENVS 204 Gender, Health & EnvironmentENVS 279Climate and HistoryENVS 284 Environmental JusticeENVS 297North American Environmental HistoryENVS 298 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 338Climate Change and Human HealthENVS 350A Solutions to Environmental Problems: WaterENVS 350BSolutions to Environmental Problems: BiogasENVS 350C Solutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
ActionENVS 350FSolutions to Environmental Problems: Food
SystemsENVS 383 Human Dimensions of ConservationENVS 391Environmental Research (with SES approval)ENVS 395 Environmental Internship (with SES approval)ENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399 Directed Readings (with SES approval)COMM 101Public Speaking & Critical ThinkingCOMM 260 Environmental JournalismCOMM 277Organizational CommunicationCOMM 306 Environmental AdvocacyCOMM 322Guerilla MediaCOMM 379 Digital SustainabilityENGL 288Nature in LiteraturePHIL 287 Environmental EthicsPSYC 277Environmental PsychologySOCL 226 Science, Technology, & SocietySOCL 252Global InequalitiesSOCL 272 Environmental SociologySOCL 276The Sociology and Politics of FoodSOCL 278 Global HealthTHEO 204Religious Ethics and the Ecological CrisisTHEO 344 Theology and EcologyPolicy, Economics, and Resource ManagementSelect two of the following: 6ENVS 298Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 300 Introduction to Public HealthENVS 311Natural Resources and Land Use Law & PolicyENVS 312 Water Law & PolicyENVS 313Energy Law & PolicyENVS 327 Food Systems AnalysisENVS 332ENVS 333 Introduction to the Circular EconomyENVS 335Ecological EconomicsENVS 336 Design for Circular & Sustainable BusinessENVS 338Climate Change and Human HealthENVS 363 Sustainable Business ManagementENVS 364ENVS 383 Human Dimensions of ConservationENVS 384Conservation EconomicsENVS 389 Ecological Risk AssessmentENVS 391Environmental Research (with SES approval)ENVS 395 Environmental Internship (with SES approval)ENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399 Directed Readings (with SES approval)ECON 328Environmental EconomicsGLST 305 Globalization and Environmental SustainabilityMGMT 201Managing People and OrganizationsPLSC 354 Global Environmental PoliticsMethods and AnalysisSelect one of the following: 3COMM 260Environmental JournalismENVS 298 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 327Food Systems AnalysisENVS 352 Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IENVS 353Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IIENVS 354 Sustainability Plan Development & ReportingENVS 380Introduction to Geographic Information SystemsENVS 381 Advanced GIS ApplicationsENVS 382Remote SensingENVS 384 Conservation EconomicsENVS 388ENVS 389 Ecological Risk AssessmentENVS 391Environmental ResearchENVS 395 Environmental InternshipENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399 Directed ReadingsANTH 317Ethnographic MethodsBIOL 335 Intro to BiostatisticsCOMM 231Conflict Management and CommunicationCOMM 234 Interviewing for CommunicationCOMM 277Organizational CommunicationCOMM 363 Research Methods in Advertising/Public RelationsMARK 320Marketing for Environmental SustainabilitySOCL 206 Principles of Social ResearchSOCL 301Statistics for Social ResearchSOCL 302 Qualitative ResearchSTAT 203Introduction to Probability & StatisticsSTAT 303 SAS Programming & Applied StatisticsEnvironmental ElectivesSelect two of the following: 6COMM 260Environmental JournalismENVS 204 Gender, Health & EnvironmentENVS 207Plants and CivilizationENVS 215 /
BIOL 215OrnithologyENVS 218Biodiversity & BiogeographyENVS 223 Soil EcologyENVS 224Climate & Climate ChangeENVS 226 Science & Conservation of Freshwater Ecosystems

--- Page 905 ---
936  Environmental Policy (BA)ENVS 227REcology of the Mediterranean SeaENVS 267 Bird Conservation and EcologyENVS 273Energy and the EnvironmentENVS 274 Chemistry of the Natural EnvironmentENVS 278HydrologyENVS 279 Climate and HistoryENVS 283Environmental SustainabilityENVS 297 North American Environmental HistoryENVS 298Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 300 Introduction to Public HealthENVS 301Environmental HealthENVS 303 Introduction to EpidemiologyENVS 311Natural Resources and Land Use Law & PolicyENVS 312 Water Law & PolicyENVS 313Energy Law & PolicyENVS 319ENVS 320Conservation BiologyENVS 322 Invasive SpeciesENVS 323Environmental MicrobiologyENVS 325 Sustainable AgricultureENVS 326AgroecosystemsENVS 327 Food Systems AnalysisENVS 330Restoration EcologyENVS 338 Climate Change and Human HealthENVS 340Natural History of BelizeENVS 345 Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
EcosystemsENVS 350ASolutions to Environmental Problems: WaterENVS 350B Solutions to Environmental Problems: BiogasENVS 350CSolutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
ActionENVS 350F Solutions to Environmental Problems: Food
SystemsENVS 351Introduction to Sustainability Concepts & ImpactsENVS 352 Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IENVS 353Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IIENVS 354 Sustainability Plan Development & ReportingENVS 369Field OrnithologyENVS 380 Introduction to Geographic Information SystemsENVS 381Advanced GIS ApplicationsENVS 385 Introduction to Global HealthENVS 387Principles of EcotoxicologyENVS 388ENVS 389Ecological Risk AssessmentENVS 391 Environmental Research (with SES approval)ENVS 395Environmental Internship (with SES approval)ENVS 398 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399Directed Readings (with SES approval)ANTH 104 The Human Ecological FootprintANTH 303People and ConservationBIOL, CHEM, PHYS 300-level courses (with SES approval)Total Hours18Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework. An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study. Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year One
Fall
ENVS 137 Foundations of Environmental Science I 3PLSC 101American Politics3 Hours6
SpringENVS 203Environmental Statistics3
ENVS 237 Foundations of Environmental Chemistry 3ENVS 238Foundations of Environmental Science Lab1Justice & Ethics Choice3 Hours10
Year Two
Fall
ENVS 200 Environmental Careers and Professional
Skills1ENVS 280Principles of Ecology3ENVS 286Principles of Ecology Lab1 Hours5
Spring
ENVS 310 
or PLSC 392Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy 
or Environmental Politics3Environmental Science Elective3 Hours6
Year Three
FallENVS 310 
or PLSC 392Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy 
or Environmental Politics3 Hours3
SpringENVS 335 
or ECON 328Ecological Economics 
or Environmental Economics3Society, Ethics, & Justice Elective3 Hours6
Year Four
Fall
Engaged Learning Choice 3Policy, Economics, & Resource Management Elective3Methods & Analysis Elective3 Hours9
Spring
Capstone Choice 3Policy, Economics, & Resource Management Elective3Environmental Science Elective3 Hours9 Total Hours54

--- Page 906 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 937
School of Environmental Sustainability
Graduation Requirements
All SES students are required to complete a foreign language requirement
and a writing intensive requirement. The SES language requirement
can be fulﬁlled by 1) earning college credit at the 102-level or above; or
2) demonstrating proﬁciency via the SES foreign language proﬁciency
examination. The SES writing intensive requirement is fulﬁlled by
successfully completing two Loyola WI courses (max of one per
semester). Writing intensive courses have a “W” in the section number.
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Describe the need for government intervention and the policy
process.
•Explain the major US federal environmental laws and international
agreements.
•Recognize the role of state and local innovation in environmental
policy.
•Engage in environmental policy advocacy, development, and
implementation.
•Evaluate the effectiveness of the policy toward environmental
sustainability.
SES Shared Learning Outcomes
All SES majors share the following Program Learning Objectives, in
addition to their unique major-speciﬁc Program Learning Objectives:
1. Articulate the foundational principles of natural and social sciences
and humanities essential to solving environmental problems.
2. Critically evaluate the accuracy and credibility of information relating to
environmental topics.
3. Employ knowledge and skills to design and implement solutions that
contribute to a just and sustainable world.
4. Exemplify the values of environmental and social justice through
actions to care for our common home and one another.
Environmental Science
•Environmental Science (BS)  (p. 937)
•Environmental Science Minor  (p. 944)
•Environmental Science/Business (BS/MBA)  (p. 1127 )
•Environmental Science/Digital Media and Storytelling (BS/MC)
(p. 1133 )
•Environmental Science/Environmental Science and Sustainability
(BS/MS)  (p. 1139 )
•Environmental Science/Global Strategic Communication (BS/MS)
(p. 1146 )•Environmental Science/Public Health (BS/MPH)  (p. 1153 )
•Environmental Science/Public Policy (BS/MPP)  (p. 1159 )
Environmental Science (BS)
Solving the world's most pressing environmental problems requires
understanding the scientiﬁc aspects of sustainability. Our program in
environmental science prepares students to develop innovative solutions
to challenges such as climate change, air and water pollution, and
biodiversity loss.
This program has optional concentrations in Conservation and
Restoration Ecology; Environmental Health; Food Systems and
Sustainable Agriculture; or Climate & Energy.
Related Programs
Minor
•Environmental Science Minor  (p. 944)
Combined
•Environmental Science/Business (BS/MBA)  (p. 1127 )
•Environmental Science/Digital Media and Storytelling (BS/MC)
(p. 1133 )
Curriculum
Environmental Science students complete coursework that includes
both a heavy dose of basic science requirements and courses spanning
a variety of disciplines pertinent to understanding the context in which
environmental challenges reside.
Students may take the program without a concentration [66 credit hours]
or choose a concentration in Conservation and Restoration Ecology [67
credit hours]; Environmental Health [69 credit hours]; Food Systems and
Sustainable Agriculture [66 credit hours]; or Climate & Energy [70 credit
hours].
Code Title Hours
Core CurriculumBIOL 101General Biology I3
BIOL 111 General Biology I Lab 1CHEM 160Chemical Structure and Properties3
CHEM 161 Chemical Structure and Properties Laboratory 1ENVS 137Foundations of Environmental Science I3
ENVS 200 Environmental Careers and Professional Skills 1ENVS 203Environmental Statistics3
ENVS 274 Chemistry of the Natural Environment 3ENVS 275Chemistry of the Environment Lab1
ENVS 276 Chemistry of Environmental Pollution 3ENVS 280Principles of Ecology3
ENVS 286S Principles of Ecology Lab 1PLSC 392Environmental Politics3
Students take one of the following sequences based on
concentration:4BIOL 102 
& BIOL 112General Biology II 
and General Biology II Lab  1PHYS 111 
& 111LCollege Physics I Lec / Dis 
and College Physics Laboratory I  2

--- Page 907 ---
938  Environmental Science (BS)Justice and Ethics ChoiceSelect one of the following: 3ENVS 284Environmental JusticePHIL 287 Environmental EthicsTHEO 204Religious Ethics and the Ecological CrisisEconomics ChoiceENVS 335Ecological Economics3or ECON 328Environmental Economics
Engaged Learning Choice  3,4Select one of the following:3
ENVS 226 Science & Conservation of Freshwater EcosystemsENVS 267Bird Conservation and EcologyENVS 273 Energy and the EnvironmentENVS 283Environmental SustainabilityENVS 340 Natural History of BelizeENVS 345Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
EcosystemsENVS 350A Solutions to Environmental Problems: WaterENVS 350CSolutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
ActionENVS 350F Solutions to Environmental Problems: Food
Systems 5ENVS 369Field OrnithologyENVS 391 Environmental Research (with SES approval) 5ENVS 395Environmental Internship (with SES approval) 5Capstone ChoiceSelect one of the following:3
ENVS 390 Integrative SeminarENVS 391CIndependent Environmental Research (Capstone)ENVS 395C Environmental Internship (Capstone)Concentration Courses and Electives  (p. 938)21-28Total Hours66-70
1Students with the Conservation and Restoration Ecology,
Environmental Health, Food Systems and Sustainable Agriculture, and
without concentration must take BIOL 102  and BIOL 112 .
2Students in the Climate and Energy Concentration must take PHYS 111
and PHYS 111L .  Students in this concentration also take an additional
PHYS course outlined in the Concentration requirements.
3Students in the Food Systems and Sustainable Agriculture
Concentration and the Climate and Energy Concentration have limited
options to satisfy the Engaged Learning requirement.
4Students in the Climate and Energy Concentration must take ENVS 273
for the Engaged Learning Requirement within the major.  This
requirement is outlined in the Concentration requirements.
5Students in the Food Systems and Sustainable Agriculture
Concentration may take this course to satisfy the Engaged Learning
Requirement for the major.Concentration Requirements and Elective
Course Options
Environmental Science (Without Concentration)
Code Title Hours
ElectivesOne (1) course in Society, Ethics, and Justice Electives3
One (1) course in Policy, Economics, and Resource Management
Electives3Five (5) courses in Environmental Science Electives, at least three (3)
of which must be at 300-level15Total Hours21
Environmental Science: Conservation and Restoration
Ecology Concentration
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesENVS 218Biodiversity & Biogeography3
ENVS 320 Conservation Biology 3ENVS 321Conservation Biology Lab1
ENVS 330 Restoration Ecology 3ENVS 331Restoration Ecology Lab1
ENVS 383 Human Dimensions of Conservation 3ElectivesOne (1) course in Society, Ethics, and Justice Electives 3One (1) course in Policy, Economics, and Resource Management
Electives3One (1) course in Environmental Science Electives3Total Hours23
 Environmental Science: Environmental Health
Concentration
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesENVS 300Introduction to Public Health3
ENVS 301 Environmental Health 3ENVS 303Introduction to Epidemiology3
ElectivesOne (1) course in Environmental Health and Society Electives3Four (4) courses in Environmental Science Electives12Total Hours24
 Environmental Science:  Food Systems and Sustainable
Agriculture Concentration
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesENVS 207Plants and Civilization3
ENVS 223 Soil Ecology 3ENVS 325Sustainable Agriculture3
Food Systems and Sustainable Agriculture Required ChoiceSelect one of the following:3
ENVS 230 Feeding the Planet: Global Perspectives on
Sustainability, Culture and Food

--- Page 908 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 939ENVS 326AgroecosystemsENVS 327 Food Systems AnalysisENVS 350FSolutions to Environmental Problems: Food
SystemsElectivesOne (1) course in Society, Ethics, and Justice Electives3
One (1) course in Policy, Economics, and Resource Management
Electives3One (1) course in Environmental Science Electives3Total Hours21
Environmental Science:  Climate and Energy
Concentration
Code Title Hours
Required Physics Core CoursePHYS 112College Physics II Lec/Disc3
PHYS 112L College Physics Lab II 1Required Climate and Energy CoursesENVS 224 Climate & Climate Change 3ENVS 273Energy and the Environment 13
ENVS 313 Energy Law & Policy 3ENVS 316Energy and Power Systems3
ENVS 324 Climate Science 3ElectivesOne (1) course in Business, Economics, & Management Electives 3One (1) course in Communication Electives3One (1) course in Methods & Analysis Electives3Total Hours28
1This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.
Electives
Society, Ethics, and Justice Electives
Code Title Hours
COMM 101 Public Speaking & Critical Thinking 3COMM 277Organizational Communication3
COMM 306 Environmental Advocacy 3COMM 322Guerilla Media3
COMM 379 Digital Sustainability 13ENGL 288Nature in Literature3
ENVS 204 Gender, Health & Environment 3ENVS 230Feeding the Planet: Global Perspectives on
Sustainability, Culture and Food3
ENVS 260 /
COMM 260Environmental Journalism 3ENVS 279 /
HIST 279EClimate and History3
ENVS 284 Environmental Justice 3ENVS 285Eco-spirituality3
ENVS 297 /
HIST 297ENorth American Environmental History 3ENVS 298Special Topics (with SES approval)1-12
ENVS 338 Climate Change and Human Health 3ENVS 350ASolutions to Environmental Problems: Water3
ENVS 350C Solutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
Action3ENVS 350FSolutions to Environmental Problems: Food
Systems3
ENVS 383 Human Dimensions of Conservation 3ENVS 391Environmental Research (with SES approval)1-3
ENVS 395 Environmental Internship (with SES approval) 3ENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)3
ENVS 399 Directed Readings (with SES approval) 1-3PHIL 287Environmental Ethics3
PSYC 277 Environmental Psychology 3SOCL 226Science, Technology, & Society3
SOCL 252 Global Inequalities 3SOCL 272Environmental Sociology3
SOCL 276 The Sociology and Politics of Food 3SOCL 278Global Health3
THEO 204 Religious Ethics and the Ecological Crisis 3THEO 344Theology and Ecology3
1For students with the Conservation and Restoration Ecology
Concentration or without a Concentration.
Policy, Economics, and Resource Management Electives
Code Title Hours
COMM 379 Digital Sustainability 13ECON 328Environmental Economics3
ENVS 230 Feeding the Planet: Global Perspectives on
Sustainability, Culture and Food3ENVS 298Special Topics (with SES approval)1-12
ENVS 300 Introduction to Public Health 3ENVS 310Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy3
ENVS 311 Natural Resources and Land Use Law & Policy 3ENVS 312Water Law & Policy3
ENVS 313 Energy Law & Policy 3ENVS 316Energy and Power Systems3
ENVS 327 Food Systems Analysis 3ENVS 333Introduction to the Circular Economy3
ENVS 335 Ecological Economics 3ENVS 336Design for Circular & Sustainable Business3
ENVS 338 Climate Change and Human Health 3ENVS 351Introduction to Sustainability Concepts & Impacts
13
ENVS 363 Sustainable Business Management 3ENVS 383Human Dimensions of Conservation3
ENVS 384 Conservation Economics 3ENVS 389Ecological Risk Assessment3
ENVS 391 Environmental Research (with SES approval) 1-3ENVS 395Environmental Internship (with SES approval)3
ENVS 398 Special Topics (with SES approval) 3ENVS 399Directed Readings (with SES approval)1-3
GLST 305 Globalization and Environmental Sustainability 3

--- Page 909 ---
940  Environmental Science (BS)MGMT 201Managing People and Organizations3
PLSC 354 Global Environmental Politics 3
1For students in the Food Systems and Sustainable
Agriculture Concentration only.
Environmental Science Electives
Code Title Hours
Environmental Science ElectivesANTH 104The Human Ecological Footprint3
ANTH 303 People and Conservation 3ENVS 204Gender, Health & Environment 33
ENVS 207 Plants and Civilization 43ENVS 215 /
BIOL 215Ornithology 13
ENVS 218 Biodiversity & Biogeography 33ENVS 223Soil Ecology 33
ENVS 224 Climate & Climate Change 3ENVS 226Science & Conservation of Freshwater Ecosystems3
ENVS 267 Bird Conservation and Ecology 53ENVS 273Energy and the Environment 53
ENVS 278 Hydrology 63ENVS 283Environmental Sustainability3
ENVS 298 Special Topics (with SES approval) 1-12ENVS 300Introduction to Public Health 73
ENVS 301 Environmental Health 73ENVS 303Introduction to Epidemiology 73
ENVS 320 Conservation Biology 73ENVS 322Invasive Species3
ENVS 323 Environmental Microbiology 33ENVS 324Climate Science3
ENVS 325 Sustainable Agriculture 43ENVS 326Agroecosystems3
ENVS 327 Food Systems Analysis 3ENVS 330Restoration Ecology 33
ENVS 338 Climate Change and Human Health 3ENVS 340Natural History of Belize 53
ENVS 345 Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
Ecosystems 53ENVS 350ASolutions to Environmental Problems: Water3
ENVS 350C Solutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
Action3ENVS 350FSolutions to Environmental Problems: Food
Systems3
ENVS 367 Mammalogy 53ENVS 369Field Ornithology 53
ENVS 380 Introduction to Geographic Information Systems 3ENVS 381Advanced GIS Applications3
ENVS 382 Remote Sensing 3ENVS 383Human Dimensions of Conservation 73
ENVS 384 Conservation Economics 23ENVS 385Introduction to Global Health3
ENVS 386 Python Programming for GIS 3ENVS 387Principles of Ecotoxicology3
ENVS 389 Ecological Risk Assessment 3ENVS 391Environmental Research (with SES approval)1-3
ENVS 395 Environmental Internship (with SES approval) 3ENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)3
ENVS 399 Directed Readings (with SES approval) 1-3BIOL, CHEM, PHYS 300-level courses (with SES approval)1For students with the Food and Sustainable Agriculture Concentration,
the Environmental Health Concentration, or without a Concentration.
2For students in the Environmental Health Concentration only.
3For students with the Conservation and Restoration Ecology
Concentration or without a Concentration.
4For students in the Food Systems and Sustainable
Agriculture Concentration only.
5For students with the Conservation and Restoration Ecology
Concentration, the the Environmental Health Concentration, or without
a Concentration.
6For students with the Food Systems and Sustainable Agriculture
Concentration or without a Concentration.
7For students without a Concentration only.
Environmental Health and Society Elective (Environmental Health
only)
Code Title Hours
COMM 101 Public Speaking & Critical Thinking 3COMM 260Environmental Journalism3
COMM 277 Organizational Communication 3COMM 306Environmental Advocacy3
COMM 379 Digital Sustainability 3ECON 328Environmental Economics3
ENGL 288 Nature in Literature 3ENVS 204Gender, Health & Environment3
ENVS 230 Feeding the Planet: Global Perspectives on
Sustainability, Culture and Food3ENVS 279Climate and History3
ENVS 284 Environmental Justice 3ENVS 285Eco-spirituality3
ENVS 297 North American Environmental History 3ENVS 298Special Topics (with SES approval)1-12
ENVS 310 Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy 3ENVS 311Natural Resources and Land Use Law & Policy3
ENVS 312 Water Law & Policy 3ENVS 313Energy Law & Policy3
ENVS 335 Ecological Economics 3ENVS 338Climate Change and Human Health3
ENVS 340 Natural History of Belize 3ENVS 350ASolutions to Environmental Problems: Water3
ENVS 350C Solutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
Action3ENVS 350FSolutions to Environmental Problems: Food
Systems3
ENVS 363 Sustainable Business Management 3ENVS 383Human Dimensions of Conservation3
ENVS 389 Ecological Risk Assessment 3

--- Page 910 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 941ENVS 391Environmental Research (with SES approval)1-3
ENVS 395 Environmental Internship (with SES approval) 3ENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)3
ENVS 399 Directed Readings (with SES approval) 1-3MGMT 201Managing People and Organizations3
PHIL 287 Environmental Ethics 3PLSC 354Global Environmental Politics3
PSYC 277 Environmental Psychology 3SOCL 226Science, Technology, & Society3
SOCL 252 Global Inequalities 3SOCL 272Environmental Sociology3
SOCL 276 The Sociology and Politics of Food 3SOCL 278Global Health3
THEO 204 Religious Ethics and the Ecological Crisis 3THEO 344Theology and Ecology3
Business, Economics, & Management (Climate and Energy only)
Code Title Hours
ENTR 201 Essentials of Entrepreneurship 3ENVS 336Design for Circular & Sustainable Business3
ENVS 363 Sustainable Business Management 3MGMT 201Managing People and Organizations3
SCMG 232 Introduction to Supply Chain Management 3
Communication (Climate and Energy only)
Code Title Hours
COMM 101 Public Speaking & Critical Thinking 3COMM 103Business & Professional Speaking3
COMM 236 Persuasive Presentations 3COMM 237Small Group Communication3
COMM 260 Environmental Journalism 3COMM 268Persuasion3
COMM 277 Organizational Communication 3COMM 306Environmental Advocacy3
ENVS 350C Solutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
Action3
Methods & Analysis (Climate and Energy only)
Code Title Hours
DSCI 101 Fundamentals of Modern Data Science with R 3ENVS 380Introduction to Geographic Information Systems3
ENVS 382 Remote Sensing 3ENVS 386Python Programming for GIS3
SOCL 206 Principles of Social Research 3SOCL 302Qualitative Research3
STAT 303 SAS Programming & Applied Statistics 3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework. An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study. Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.Environmental Science (Without Concentration)
Course Title Hours
Year One
Fall
BIOL 101 General Biology I 3BIOL 111General Biology I Lab1
CHEM 160 Chemical Structure and Properties 3CHEM 161Chemical Structure and Properties
Laboratory1ENVS 137Foundations of Environmental Science I3 Hours11
Spring
BIOL 102 General Biology II 3BIOL 112General Biology II Lab1
CHEM 180 Chemical Reactivity I 3CHEM 181Chemical Reactivity I Lab1
ENVS 200 Environmental Careers and Professional
Skills1ENVS 203Environmental Statistics3 Hours12
Year Two
FallENVS 280Principles of Ecology3
ENVS 286S Principles of Ecology Lab 1Environmental Science Elective3 Hours7
SpringJustice & Ethics Choice3Society, Ethics, & Justice Elective3 Hours6
Year Three
Fall
ENVS 274 Chemistry of the Natural Environment 3ENVS 275Chemistry of the Environment Lab1Environmental Science 300 Level Elective3 Hours7
Spring
ENVS 335 
or ECON 328Ecological Economics 
or Environmental Economics3PLSC 392Environmental Politics3 Hours6
Year Four
FallEngaged Learning Choice3
Environmental Science Elective 3Environmental Science 300 Level Elective3 Hours9
SpringCapstone Choice3
Policy, Economics, & Resource Management Elective 3

--- Page 911 ---
942  Environmental Science (BS)Environmental Science 300 Level Elective3 Hours9 Total Hours67
Environmental Science: Conservation and Restoration
Ecology Concentration 
Course Title Hours
Year One
Fall
BIOL 101 General Biology I 3BIOL 111General Biology I Lab1
CHEM 160 Chemical Structure and Properties 3CHEM 161Chemical Structure and Properties
Laboratory1ENVS 137Foundations of Environmental Science I3 Hours11
Spring
BIOL 102 General Biology II 3BIOL 112General Biology II Lab1
CHEM 180 Chemical Reactivity I 3CHEM 181Chemical Reactivity I Lab1
ENVS 200 Environmental Careers and Professional
Skills1ENVS 203Environmental Statistics3 Hours12
Year Two
FallENVS 280Principles of Ecology3ENVS 286SPrinciples of Ecology Lab1 Hours4
Spring
ENVS 274 Chemistry of the Natural Environment 3ENVS 275Chemistry of the Environment Lab1
ENVS 218 
or ENVS 320 
or ENVS 321 
or ENVS 330 
or ENVS 331 
or ENVS 383Biodiversity & Biogeography 
or Conservation Biology 
or Conservation Biology Lab 
or Restoration Ecology 
or Restoration Ecology Lab 
or Human Dimensions of Conservation3Justice & Ethics Choice3Society, Ethics, & Justice Elective3 Hours13
Year Three
FallEngaged Learning Choice3 Hours3
Spring
ENVS 335 
or ECON 328Ecological Economics 
or Environmental Economics3ENVS 218 
or ENVS 320 
or ENVS 321 
or ENVS 330 
or ENVS 331 
or ENVS 383Biodiversity & Biogeography 
or Conservation Biology 
or Conservation Biology Lab 
or Restoration Ecology 
or Restoration Ecology Lab 
or Human Dimensions of Conservation3 Hours7
Year Four
FallENVS 218 
or ENVS 320 
or ENVS 321 
or ENVS 330 
or ENVS 331 
or ENVS 383Biodiversity & Biogeography 
or Conservation Biology 
or Conservation Biology Lab 
or Restoration Ecology 
or Restoration Ecology Lab 
or Human Dimensions of Conservation3
PLSC 392 Environmental Politics 3Environmental Science Elective3 Hours10
SpringCapstone Choice3
Policy, Economics, & Resource Management Elective 3Environmental Science Elective3 Hours9 Total Hours69
Environmental Science: Environmental Health
Concentration
Course Title Hours
Year One
Fall
BIOL 101 General Biology I 3BIOL 111General Biology I Lab1
CHEM 160 Chemical Structure and Properties 3CHEM 161Chemical Structure and Properties
Laboratory1ENVS 137Foundations of Environmental Science I3 Hours11
Spring
BIOL 102 General Biology II 3BIOL 112General Biology II Lab1
CHEM 180 Chemical Reactivity I 3CHEM 181Chemical Reactivity I Lab1
ENVS 200 Environmental Careers and Professional
Skills1ENVS 203Environmental Statistics3 Hours12
Year Two
FallENVS 280Principles of Ecology3
ENVS 286S Principles of Ecology Lab 1PLSC 392Environmental Politics3 Hours7
SpringENVS 274Chemistry of the Natural Environment3

--- Page 912 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 943
ENVS 275 Chemistry of the Environment Lab 1Justice & Ethics Choice3 Hours7
Year Three
FallENVS 300 
or ENVS 301 
or ENVS 303Introduction to Public Health 
or Environmental Health 
or Introduction to Epidemiology3
Engaged Learning Choice 3Public Health & Environmental Science Elective3 Hours9
SpringENVS 300 
or ENVS 301 
or ENVS 303Introduction to Public Health 
or Environmental Health 
or Introduction to Epidemiology3 Hours3
Year Four
FallENVS 300 
or ENVS 301 
or ENVS 303Introduction to Public Health 
or Environmental Health 
or Introduction to Epidemiology3
ENVS 335 
or ECON 328Ecological Economics 
or Environmental Economics3Public Health & Environmental Science Elective3Public Health & Environmental Science Elective3 Hours12
Spring
Capstone Choice 3Environmental Health & Society Elective3Public Health & Environmental Science Elective3 Hours9 Total Hours70
Environmental Science: Food Systems and Sustainable
Agriculture Concentration
Course Title Hours
Year One
Fall
BIOL 101 General Biology I 3BIOL 111General Biology I Lab1
CHEM 160 Chemical Structure and Properties 3CHEM 161Chemical Structure and Properties
Laboratory1ENVS 137Foundations of Environmental Science I3 Hours11
Spring
BIOL 102 General Biology II 3BIOL 112General Biology II Lab1
CHEM 180 Chemical Reactivity I 3CHEM 181Chemical Reactivity I Lab1
ENVS 200 Environmental Careers and Professional
Skills1ENVS 203Environmental Statistics3 Hours12
Year Two
FallENVS 280Principles of Ecology3ENVS 286SPrinciples of Ecology Lab1 Hours4
Spring
ENVS 274 Chemistry of the Natural Environment 3ENVS 275Chemistry of the Environment Lab1
ENVS 207 
or ENVS 223 
or ENVS 325Plants and Civilization 
or Soil Ecology 
or Sustainable Agriculture3Justice & Ethics Choice3 Hours10
Year Three
FallENVS 207 
or ENVS 223 
or ENVS 325Plants and Civilization 
or Soil Ecology 
or Sustainable Agriculture3
ENVS 207 
or ENVS 223 
or ENVS 325Plants and Civilization 
or Soil Ecology 
or Sustainable Agriculture3Society, Ethics, & Justice Elective3 Hours9
SpringEngaged Learning Choice3 Hours3
Year Four
FallPLSC 392Environmental Politics3
ENVS 335 
or ECON 328Ecological Economics 
or Environmental Economics3Policy, Econonmics, & Resource Management Elective3 Hours9
SpringCapstone Choice3
ENVS 325 Sustainable Agriculture 3Environmental Science Elective3 Hours9 Total Hours67
School of Environmental Sustainability
Graduation Requirements
All SES students are required to complete a foreign language requirement
and a writing intensive requirement. The SES language requirement
can be fulﬁlled by 1) earning college credit at the 102-level or above; or
2) demonstrating proﬁciency via the SES foreign language proﬁciency
examination. The SES writing intensive requirement is fulﬁlled by
successfully completing two Loyola WI courses (max of one per
semester). Writing intensive courses have a “W” in the section number.

--- Page 913 ---
944  Environmental Science Minor
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Examine the causes and consequences of environmental change at
local to global scales. [no concentration]
•Apply scientiﬁc knowledge to evaluate policy, management, and
other solutions that aim to enhance environmental sustainability. [no
concentration]
•Create an action plan for leading a professional and personal life that
promotes environmental sustainability. [no concentration]
•Articulate the foundational principles of natural and social sciences
and humanities essential to solving environmental problems. [both no
concentration and all concentrations]
•Critically evaluate the accuracy and credibility of information
relating to environmental topics. [both no concentration and all
concentrations]
•Employ knowledge and skills to design and implement solutions that
contribute to a just and sustainable world. [both no concentration and
all concentrations]
•Exemplify the values of environmental and social justice through
actions to care for our common home and one another. [both no
concentration and all concentrations]
•Explain fundamental connections among ecological processes
that are the basis of unity and diversity of life. [Conservation and
Restoration Ecology concentration]
•Analyze ecological and societal data to apply best management
practices in conservation and restoration ecology. [Conservation and
Restoration Ecology concentration]
•Synthesize the social, historical, economic, political, and biological
causes, consequences, and solutions to our current biodiversity
crisis. [Conservation and Restoration Ecology concentration]
•Develop and express a personal philosophy that values protecting
and restoring our global bicultural diversity and vital ecosystems.
[Conservation and Restoration Ecology concentration]
•Examine the sources of environmental degradation and their impacts
on health. [Environmental Health concentration]
•Apply the tools of public health to characterize the impacts
on community health using a planetary health perspective.
[Environmental Health concentration]
•Integrate environmental regulatory policies to evaluate the
health impacts at local and global scales. [Environmental Health
concentration]
•Incorporate critical public health and environmental health
justice perspectives into environmental and human dimensions.
[Environmental Health concentration]
•Explain the components of food systems and their complex
interactions across spatial and temporal scales. [Food Systems and
Sustainable Agriculture concentration]
•Articulate the physical, psychological, cultural, and spiritual
signiﬁcance of food to individual and community wellbeing. [Food
Systems and Sustainable Agriculture concentration]•Using multiple methods of analysis, evaluate the environmental
and equity impacts of different food system practices to reveal
points of leverage for social-ecological change. [Food Systems and
Sustainable Agriculture concentration]
•Engage knowledge, skills, and values through experiences that
advance sustainability, resilience, and justice within food systems.
[Food Systems and Sustainable Agriculture concentration]
•Understand the fundamental concepts of climate science and the
impacts of climate change on society and the natural environment.
[Climate and Energy concentration]
•Assess the state of energy production, consumption, and the
deployment of sustainable technologies as part of a just energy
transition. [Climate and Energy concentration]
•Evaluate the role of governmental policy and regulation in solving
climate and energy related problems. [Climate and Energy
concentration]
•Apply techniques from both the natural and social sciences to design
practical and innovative solutions to contemporary climate and
energy issues. [Climate and Energy concentration]
SES Shared Learning Outcomes
All SES majors share the following Program Learning Objectives, in
addition to their unique major-speciﬁc Program Learning Objectives:
1. Articulate the foundational principles of natural and social sciences
and humanities essential to solving environmental problems.
2. Critically evaluate the accuracy and credibility of information relating to
environmental topics.
3. Employ knowledge and skills to design and implement solutions that
contribute to a just and sustainable world.
4. Exemplify the values of environmental and social justice through
actions to care for our common home and one another.
Environmental Science Minor
The Environmental Science Minor provides a base in the science, social
& political issues, and methods relevant to understanding environmental
issues and working to solve environmental problems.
Related Programs
Minor
•Environmental Action and Leadership Minor  (p. 928)
•Sustainability Management Minor  (p. 796)
Curriculum
Requirements:  7 courses (21 credit hours);  at least 3 courses must be
ENVS.  A maximum of 3 courses can count toward this minor and an SES
major.
Code Title Hours
Environmental/Ecological Science  1Select four of the following:12
ANTH 104 The Human Ecological FootprintENVS 204Gender, Health & EnvironmentENVS 207 Plants and CivilizationENVS 215Ornithology

--- Page 914 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 945
ENVS 218 Biodiversity & BiogeographyENVS 223Soil EcologyENVS 224 Climate & Climate ChangeENVS 226Science & Conservation of Freshwater EcosystemsENVS 237 Foundations of Environmental ChemistryENVS 267Bird Conservation and EcologyENVS 273 Energy and the EnvironmentENVS 280Principles of Ecologyor BIOL 265Ecology
ENVS 283 Environmental SustainabilityENVS 340Natural History of BelizeENVS 345 Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
EcosystemsENVS 369Field OrnithologyPolicy, Business & SocietySelect one of the following:3
ENVS 260 /
COMM 260Environmental JournalismENVS 279Climate and HistoryENVS 284 Environmental JusticeENVS 297North American Environmental HistoryENVS 310 Introduction to Environmental Law & PolicyENVS 311Natural Resources and Land Use Law & PolicyENVS 312 Water Law & PolicyENVS 313Energy Law & PolicyENVS 333 Introduction to the Circular EconomyENVS 335Ecological EconomicsENVS 336 Design for Circular & Sustainable BusinessENVS 363Sustainable Business ManagementENVS 383 Human Dimensions of ConservationECON 328Environmental EconomicsGLST 305 Globalization and Environmental SustainabilityPLSC 354Global Environmental PoliticsPLSC 392 Environmental PoliticsSOCL 272Environmental SociologySOCL 276 The Sociology and Politics of FoodMethods & ApplicationSelect two of the following: 6ENVS 203Environmental StatisticsENVS 350A Solutions to Environmental Problems: WaterENVS 350BSolutions to Environmental Problems: BiogasENVS 350C Solutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
ActionENVS 350FSolutions to Environmental Problems: Food
SystemsENVS 380 Introduction to Geographic Information SystemsENVS 381Advanced GIS ApplicationsENVS 382 Remote SensingENVS 391Environmental ResearchENVS 395 Environmental InternshipSOCL 301Statistics for Social ResearchSTAT 303 SAS Programming & Applied StatisticsSTAT 307Statistical Design & Analysis of ExperimentsSTAT 308 Applied Regression AnalysisSTAT 310Categorical Data AnalysisSTAT 335 /
BIOL 335Introduction to BiostatisticsTotal Hours21
1All ENVS 200-level courses, except  COMM 260 , ENVS 279 , ENVS 284 ,
and  ENVS 297 , have  ENVS 101  or ENVS 137  as a pre-
requisite;  ENVS 280  also has  ENVS 237  as a pre-requisite.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
Course Title Hours
Year Three
Fall
Environmental/Ecological Science Elective 3Environmental/Ecological Science Elective3 Hours6
SpringEnvironmental/Ecological Science Elective3Environmental/Ecological Science Elective3 Hours6
Year Four
Fall
Policy, Business, & Society Elective 3Methods & Applications Elective3 Hours6
SpringMethods & Applications Elective3 Hours3 Total Hours21
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Learning Outcomes
•Explain the physical, biological, and chemical structure and function 
of ecosystems.
•Examine the causes and consequences of environmental change at
local to global scales.
•Apply scientiﬁc knowledge to evaluate policy, management, and other
solutions that aim to enhance environmental sustainability.
•Create an action plan for leading a professional and personal life that
promotes environmental sustainability.
Environmental Studies
•Environmental Studies (BA)  (p. 946)
•Environmental Studies/Business (BA/MBA)  (p. 1166 )
•Environmental Studies/Digital Media and Storytelling (BA/MC)
(p. 1171 )
•Environmental Studies/Environmental Science and Sustainability
(BA/MS)  (p. 1176 )

--- Page 915 ---
946  Environmental Studies (BA)
•Environmental Studies/Global Strategic Communication (BA/MS)
(p. 1182 )
•Environmental Studies/Public Policy (BA/MPP)  (p. 1187 )
Environmental Studies (BA)
Loyola's BA in Environmental Studies combines a solid base of courses
in the natural sciences with course work in the social sciences  to prepare
students for careers in government, business, education, non-proﬁt
organizations or the media.
Related Programs
Combined
•Environmental Studies/Business (BA/MBA)  (p. 1166 )
•Environmental Studies/Digital Media and Storytelling (BA/MC)
(p. 1171 )
•Environmental Studies/Environmental Science and Sustainability
(BA/MS)  (p. 1176 )
•Environmental Studies/Global Strategic Communication (BA/MS)
(p. 1182 )
Curriculum
Environmental Studies students complete coursework spanning a variety
of disciplines pertinent to the understanding of environmental issues.
Code Title Hours
Core CurriculumENVS 137Foundations of Environmental Science I3
ENVS 237 Foundations of Environmental Chemistry 3ENVS 238Foundations of Environmental Science Lab1
ENVS 200 Environmental Careers and Professional Skills 1ENVS 203Environmental Statistics3
ENVS 280 Principles of Ecology 3ENVS 286Principles of Ecology Lab1
PLSC 392 Environmental Politics 3Justice and Ethics ChoiceSelect one of the following: 3ENVS 284Environmental JusticePHIL 287 Environmental EthicsTHEO 204Religious Ethics and the Ecological CrisisEconomics ChoiceSelect one of the following:3
ENVS 335 Ecological EconomicsECON 328Environmental EconomicsEngaged Learning ChoiceSelect one of the following:3
ENVS 226 Science & Conservation of Freshwater EcosystemsENVS 267Bird Conservation and EcologyENVS 273 Energy and the EnvironmentENVS 283Environmental SustainabilityENVS 340 Natural History of BelizeENVS 345Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
EcosystemsENVS 350A Solutions to Environmental Problems: WaterENVS 350BSolutions to Environmental Problems: BiogasENVS 350C Solutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
ActionENVS 350FSolutions to Environmental Problems: Food
SystemsENVS 391 Environmental ResearchENVS 395Environmental InternshipCapstone ChoiceSelect one of the following:3
ENVS 390 Integrative SeminarENVS 391CIndependent Environmental Research (Capstone)ENVS 395C Environmental Internship (Capstone)Electives  (p. 946)21See designated elective categories belowTotal Hours51
Electives
Code Title Hours
Society, Ethics, and JusticeSelect two of the following:6
COMM 260 Environmental JournalismENVS 204Gender, Health & EnvironmentENVS 279 Climate and HistoryENVS 284Environmental JusticeENVS 297 North American Environmental HistoryENVS 298Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 310 Introduction to Environmental Law & PolicyENVS 311Natural Resources and Land Use Law & PolicyENVS 312 Water Law & PolicyENVS 313Energy Law & PolicyENVS 338 Climate Change and Human HealthENVS 350ASolutions to Environmental Problems: WaterENVS 350B Solutions to Environmental Problems: BiogasENVS 350CSolutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
ActionENVS 350F Solutions to Environmental Problems: Food
SystemsENVS 383Human Dimensions of ConservationENVS 391 Environmental ResearchENVS 395Environmental InternshipENVS 398 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399Directed ReadingsCOMM 101 Public Speaking & Critical ThinkingCOMM 277Organizational CommunicationCOMM 306 Environmental AdvocacyCOMM 322Guerilla MediaENGL 288 Nature in LiteraturePHIL 287Environmental EthicsPSYC 277 Environmental PsychologySOCL 226Science, Technology, & SocietySOCL 252 Global InequalitiesSOCL 272Environmental SociologySOCL 276 The Sociology and Politics of Food

--- Page 916 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 947SOCL 278Global HealthTHEO 204 Religious Ethics and the Ecological CrisisTHEO 344Theology and EcologyPolicy, Economics, and Resource ManagementSelect one of the following:3
ENVS 298 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 300Introduction to Public HealthENVS 310 Introduction to Environmental Law & PolicyENVS 311Natural Resources and Land Use Law & PolicyENVS 312 Water Law & PolicyENVS 313Energy Law & PolicyENVS 332ENVS 333Introduction to the Circular EconomyENVS 335 Ecological EconomicsENVS 336Design for Circular & Sustainable BusinessENVS 338 Climate Change and Human HealthENVS 351Introduction to Sustainability Concepts & ImpactsENVS 363 Sustainable Business ManagementENVS 364ENVS 383 Human Dimensions of ConservationENVS 384Conservation EconomicsENVS 389 Ecological Risk AssessmentENVS 391Environmental ResearchENVS 395 Environmental InternshipENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399 Directed ReadingsECON 328Environmental EconomicsGLST 305 Globalization and Environmental SustainabilityMGMT 201Managing People and OrganizationsPLSC 354 Global Environmental PoliticsMethods and AnalysisSelect one of the following: 3COMM 260Environmental JournalismENVS 298 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 327Food Systems AnalysisENVS 352 Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IENVS 353Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IIENVS 354 Sustainability Plan Development & ReportingENVS 380Introduction to Geographic Information SystemsENVS 381 Advanced GIS ApplicationsENVS 382Remote SensingENVS 384 Conservation EconomicsENVS 388ENVS 389 Ecological Risk AssessmentENVS 391Environmental ResearchENVS 395 Environmental InternshipENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399 Directed ReadingsANTH 317Ethnographic MethodsBIOL 335 Intro to BiostatisticsCOMM 231Conflict Management and CommunicationCOMM 234 Interviewing for CommunicationCOMM 277Organizational CommunicationCOMM 363 Research Methods in Advertising/Public RelationsMARK 320Marketing for Environmental SustainabilitySOCL 206 Principles of Social ResearchSOCL 301Statistics for Social ResearchSOCL 302 Qualitative ResearchSTAT 203Introduction to Probability & StatisticsSTAT 303 SAS Programming & Applied StatisticsEnvironmental ElectivesChoose three, at least one of which must be from List A and at least
one of which must be at the 300 level):9List AENVS 204 Gender, Health & EnvironmentENVS 207Plants and CivilizationENVS 218 Biodiversity & BiogeographyENVS 223Soil EcologyENVS 224 Climate & Climate ChangeENVS 226Science & Conservation of Freshwater EcosystemsENVS 227R Ecology of the Mediterranean SeaENVS 267Bird Conservation and EcologyENVS 273 Energy and the EnvironmentENVS 274Chemistry of the Natural EnvironmentENVS 278 HydrologyENVS 283Environmental SustainabilityENVS 298 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 300Introduction to Public HealthENVS 301 Environmental HealthENVS 303Introduction to EpidemiologyENVS 319ENVS 320Conservation BiologyENVS 322 Invasive SpeciesENVS 325Sustainable AgricultureENVS 326 AgroecosystemsENVS 327Food Systems AnalysisENVS 330 Restoration EcologyENVS 338Climate Change and Human HealthENVS 340 Natural History of BelizeENVS 345Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
EcosystemsENVS 350A Solutions to Environmental Problems: WaterENVS 350BSolutions to Environmental Problems: BiogasENVS 350C Solutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
ActionENVS 350FSolutions to Environmental Problems: Food
SystemsENVS 352 Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IENVS 353Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IIENVS 369 Field OrnithologyENVS 380Introduction to Geographic Information SystemsENVS 381 Advanced GIS ApplicationsENVS 382Remote SensingENVS 385 Introduction to Global HealthENVS 387Principles of Ecotoxicology

--- Page 917 ---
948  Environmental Studies (BA)
ENVS 388ENVS 389Ecological Risk AssessmentENVS 391 Environmental ResearchENVS 395Environmental InternshipENVS 398 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399Directed ReadingsANTH 104 The Human Ecological FootprintANTH 303People and ConservationList BCOMM 260Environmental JournalismENVS 279 Climate and HistoryENVS 297North American Environmental HistoryENVS 298 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 310Introduction to Environmental Law & PolicyENVS 311 Natural Resources and Land Use Law & PolicyENVS 312Water Law & PolicyENVS 313 Energy Law & PolicyENVS 332ENVS 333 Introduction to the Circular EconomyENVS 335Ecological EconomicsENVS 336 Design for Circular & Sustainable BusinessENVS 354Sustainability Plan Development & ReportingENVS 363 Sustainable Business ManagementENVS 364ENVS 383 Human Dimensions of ConservationENVS 384Conservation EconomicsENVS 388ENVS 391Environmental ResearchENVS 395 Environmental InternshipENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399 Directed ReadingsANTH 317Ethnographic MethodsCOMM 231 Conflict Management and CommunicationCOMM 234Interviewing for CommunicationCOMM 277 Organizational CommunicationCOMM 363Research Methods in Advertising/Public RelationsMARK 320 Marketing for Environmental SustainabilitySOCL 206Principles of Social ResearchSOCL 302 Qualitative ResearchBIOL, CHEM, PHYS 300-level courses (with SES approval)Total Hours21
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework. An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study. Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.Course Title Hours
Year One
FallENVS 137Foundations of Environmental Science I3 Hours3
Spring
ENVS 203 Environmental Statistics 3ENVS 237Foundations of Environmental Chemistry3
ENVS 238 Foundations of Environmental Science Lab 1Justice & Ethics Choice3 Hours10
Year Two
FallENVS 200Environmental Careers and Professional
Skills1
ENVS 280 Principles of Ecology 3ENVS 286Principles of Ecology Lab1 Hours5
SpringEnvironmental Science Elective List A3 Hours3
Year Three
FallSociety, Ethics, & Justice Elective3 Hours3
SpringPLSC 392Environmental Politics3Society, Ethics, & Justice Elective3 Hours6
Year Four
Fall
ENVS 335 
or ECON 328Ecological Economics 
or Environmental Economics3Engaged Learning Choice3
Policy, Economics, & Resource Management Elective 3Environmental Science Elective List A or B3 Hours12
SpringCapstone Choice3
Methods & Analysis Elective 3300 Level Environmental Science Elective3 Hours9 Total Hours51
School of Environmental Sustainability
Graduation Requirements
All SES students are required to complete a foreign language requirement
and a writing intensive requirement. The SES language requirement
can be fulﬁlled by 1) earning college credit at the 102-level or above; or
2) demonstrating proﬁciency via the SES foreign language proﬁciency
examination. The SES writing intensive requirement is fulﬁlled by

--- Page 918 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 949
successfully completing two Loyola WI courses (max of one per
semester). Writing intensive courses have a “W” in the section number.
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Demonstrate an understanding of scientiﬁc, social, and humanistic
approaches to environmental questions.
•Appraise the interactions and synergies between the natural world,
social systems, and human cultures.
•Advance environmental and social sustainability that integrates
scientiﬁc research, social analysis, and cultural awareness.
•Engaged actions of self-awareness and social solidarity that reflect a
commitment to integral ecology.
Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's
Programs with ESS-MS
•Advertising & Public Relations/Environmental Science and
Sustainability (BA/MS)  (p. 963)
•Advertising Creative/Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/
MS) (p. 982)
•Advocacy and Social Change/Environmental Science and
Sustainability (BA/MS)  (p. 992)
•Communication Studies/Environmental Science and Sustainability
(BA/MS)  (p. 1057 )
•Film and Digital Media: Film and Media Production Track/
Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)  (p. 1196 )
•Film and Digital Media: International Programming Track/
Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)  (p. 1208 )
•Multimedia Journalism/Environmental Science and Sustainability
(BA/MS)  (p. 1292 )
School of Social Work
About Us
Founded in 1914, Loyola University Chicago's School of Social Work
educates students to become leaders in the profession. Within a learning
community dedicated to excellence in scholarship and service, students
select a curriculum focused on clinical, organizational, community, and
social justice issues.
BSW Program
Loyola University Chicago's School of Social Work’s Bachelor of Social
Work  (p. 951) (BSW) program introduces students to the dynamic,
changing, and challenging profession of social work. Loyola University
Chicago offers a combined BSW/MSW degree that allows full-time
students to complete both an undergraduate and graduate degree in
social work in just ﬁve years. Students earn a BSW in Social Work degree,
blending a top-quality social work curriculum with a strong liberal arts
base. Because many ﬁrst-year MSW requirements are completed duringstudents’ senior year, the MSW degree portion of the program can be
completed in less time than normally required to earn a master's degree
in social work.
Internships
Through relationships with over 1,000 agencies, non-proﬁt organizations,
hospitals, and schools in the Chicagoland area, Loyola provides
outstanding access to supervised internships.
Continuing Education
The School of Social Work offers a variety of continuing education
programs  (https://cms4.luc.edu/socialwork/resources-initiatives/ ).
PRAXIS
Established in 2000, Praxis  (https://cms4.luc.edu/socialwork/student-
support/journals/ ) is one of the only student published journals of social
work in the nation. The journal offers the scholarly work of students and
alumni, providing a forum for the expression of diverse viewpoints and
timely research.
Undergraduate Programs
•Social Work (BSW)  (p. 951)
•Social Work (BSW/MSW)  (p. 1344 )
•Social Work/International Affairs (BSW/MA)  (p. 1355 )
•Social Work Minor  (p. 954)
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
University Policies
Please see University Policies for academic policies that supersede those
of academic units within the University
Social Work (SOWK)
SOWK 200   Introduction to Social Work   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is an introduction to the social work profession through the
identiﬁcation of some of the human problems in society and the role of
both society and social services in response to the problems. Students
have the opportunity to observe several social service agencies and to
evaluate current ways in which agencies interpret social problems and
administer services Students will be able to evaluate current ways in
which agencies interpret social problems and administer services.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
SOWK 205   Children and Youth: Systems and Services   (3 Credit Hours)   
Survey of the ﬁeld of child welfare with consideration of various social
services. Particular focus on abused and neglected children, foster care,
adoption, and institutionalization.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to assess and analyze child welfare services within
current political and social constraints

--- Page 919 ---
950  School of Social Work
SOWK 301   Practice Skills with Individuals and Families   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Undergraduate Social Work majors; Senior Standing; A
grade of "C" or higher in the following courses: SOWK 200, SOWK 370,
SOWK 305, (SOWK 201 or SOWK 307), and SOWK 350; Corequisite:
SOWK 380    
This introductory micro practice course begins by focusing on the
development of core skills for social workers in their encounters with
individuals and families.
Course equivalencies:  SOWK 301/SOWK 503   
Outcomes:
1) Understand core social work skills relevant to engaging with and
working with individuals and families, 2) apply core skills to diverse client
situations
SOWK 302   Integrated Micro/Mezzo/Macro Theory and Practice   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Undergraduate Social Work majors; Senior Standing; A
grade of "C" or higher in the following courses: SOWK 200, SOWK 370,
SOWK 305, (SOWK 201 or SOWK 307), and SOWK 350   
This course extends theoretical knowledge and practical skills in
mezzo and macro social work practice that support anti-racist and anti-
oppressive, community engaged practices. While integrating theories
of sociology, political science, anthropology, public health, and urban
studies; as well as practice knowledge; the class examines relationships
between social, economic, political, and cultural structures, collective
action, and individual attitudes and behaviors.
Outcomes:
Understand integrated practice models that apply across micro, mezzo,
and macro domains; Appraise the quality and utility of empirical research
related to the key theories, topics, and problems examined
SOWK 303   Group Work Practice in Social Work: Micro/Mezzo/Macro   (3
Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Undergraduate Social Work majors; Senior standing; A
grade of "C" or higher in the following courses: SOWK 200, SOWK 370,
SOWK 305, (SOWK 201 or SOWK 307), and SOWK 350; Pre or Corequisite:
SOWK 301   
This course presents theoretical and practical approaches to social
work with groups, with a focus on group development, dynamics, and
processes.
Course equivalencies:  SOWK 303/SOWK 505   
Outcomes:
1) Understand the role of group work as a key social work methodology,
and how group work is practiced within agency and community settings,
2) gain awareness of themselves as group members and facilitators
SOWK 305   Life Span Development, Human Behavior, Trauma, &
Theory   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Undergraduate Social Work majors, Social Work minors, or
Human Services majors; Junior standing   
Co-requisites:  SOWK 200, SOWK 370, and SOCL 101   
This course will consider bio-psycho-social-spiritual theories across the
life-course, with a focus on trauma and resilience and an understanding
of the role of neuroscience in development. For Social Work majors
only: Prerequisite: "C-" or higher in PSYC 101 AND Pre or For Social Work
minors only: Pre or Corequisites: SOWK 200 and SOWK 370.
Course equivalencies:  SOWK 305/SOWK 500   
Outcomes:
1) Understand the critical impact of the bio-psycho-social-spiritual
perspective on the social work profession, 2) identify the role trauma and
resilience have in human development and behaviorSOWK 307   Social Work Policy and Community Intervention   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Undergraduate Social Work majors, Social Work minors, or
Human Services majors; Junior standing   
Co-requisites:  SOWK 200 and SOWK 370   
Drawing from social work theory, research, and practice, Social Work
Policy and Community Interventions examines the roles of social workers
in policy practice as well as change agents within community and
organizational contexts.
Outcomes:
Examine social workers in policy practice as change agents within
communities and organizations; Discuss the history and current
structures of social policies and services; Describe the role of policy in
service delivery and the role of practice in policy development
SOWK 308   Integrated Micro, Mezzo, and Macro Practice   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Undergraduate Social Work students; BSW major; Senior
Standing; "C" or higher in the following courses: SOWK 200, 370, 305,
(201 or 307), and 350 Corequisites: SOWK 380 This course focuses on
integrated practice approaches that span three frameworks, including
micro (e.g. individuals, families, and groups), mezzo (e.g. communities),
and macro (e.g. systems, society) levels   
It will examine various theories and models, the quality and utility
of empirical research, as well as the impact of interprofessional and
interdisciplinary collaboration efforts.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services, Human Services   
Outcomes:
Describe the importance of integrated practice; Examine a variety of
models that can be used in integrated practice; Discuss the imp ortance
of empirical research of theories as well as interprofessional and
interdisciplinary collaboration
SOWK 330   Internship I and Simulated Experience   (3.5 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Undergraduate Social Work majors; Senior standing; A
grade of "C" or higher in the following courses: SOWK 200, SOWK 370,
SOWK 305, (SOWK 201 or SOWK 307), and SOWK 350; Corequisite:
SOWK 362   
The goal of the ﬁeld education program is to provide an integrative
experience that brings classroom theory to the ﬁeld of practice. The ﬁeld
education program will challenge the student to integrate professional
values and personal perspectives.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
1) Understand the professional purpose, values, and ethical implications
of social work practice, 2) develop knowledge of the multiple frames of
reference that reflect the organization and diversity of the profession
SOWK 340   Internship II and Simulated Experience   (3.5 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Undergraduate Social Work majors; Senior standing; A
grade of "C" or higher in the following courses: SOWK 200, (SOWK 201 or
307), SOWK 370, SOWK 305, and SOWK 350   
Co-requisites:  SOWK 330 and SOWK 362   
The goal of the ﬁeld education program is to provide an integrative
experience that brings classroom theory to the ﬁeld of practice. The ﬁeld
education program will challenge the student to integrate professional
values and personal perspectives.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
1) Understand the professional purpose, values, and ethical implications
of social work practice, 2) develop knowledge of the multiple frames of
reference that reflect the organization and diversity of the profession

--- Page 920 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 951
SOWK 350   Preparation for Practice   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Undergraduate Social Work majors; Junior standing;
A grade of "C" or higher in the following courses: SOWK 200 and
SOWK 370   
SOWK 370 may be taken as a co-requisite. Students will strengthen
professional identiﬁcation and to facilitate the transfer from social work
education to professional practice or graduate studies.
Outcomes:
Introduce BSW majors to the internship experience; Integrate classroom
learning with the practice setting
SOWK 360   Independent Study   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior standing   
A course designed for individuals or small groups to focus on selected
issues and problems in social work practice beyond course offerings.
SOWK 361   Special Topics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing   
A survey course on a particular topic, such as aging, alcoholism and
drug dependency, family process, group process, African-American men,
gender, race, and culture. Students will understand how these issues
affect social work practice.
SOWK 362   Integrative Seminar   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  Undergraduate Social Work majors; Senior standing; A
grade of "C" or higher in the following courses: SOWK 200, SOWK 370,
SOWK 307, SOWK 305, and SOWK 350   
Co-requisites:  SOWK 330   
This course is the ﬁrst of two seminars that serve to enrich students'
internship experience. The focus of this course is upon experiences
and progress of the student in the ﬁrst semester of internship and
the relationship of the internship experience to speciﬁc foundational/
generalist practice class content.
Course equivalencies:  SOWK 362/SWFI/SWII 530S   
Outcomes:
1) Integrate classroom knowledge and skills into the practice setting;2)
reflect on internship learning experiences and growth of professional
sense of self
SOWK 370   Power, Oppression, Privilege, and Social Justice   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing   
This course is designed to assist social work students with
understanding the concepts of power, privilege, oppression, and social
justice in their work with historically marginalized and oppressed
populations.
Outcomes:
1) Examine students' engagement in a deep exploration of self-a wareness
of their identities, values, and biases in several areas; 2) recognize their
knowledge and awareness of cultures and identities outside their ownSOWK 380   Assessment of Client Concerns in Context   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Undergraduate Social Work majors; Senior standing; A
grade of "C" or higher in the following courses: SOWK 200, (SOWK 201 or
307), SOWK 370, SOWK 305, and SOWK 350   
Co-requisites:  SOWK 301   
Course will teach students to conduct a strengths-based and contextual
assessment of client concerns. Students will learn to conduct a culturally
informed bio-psycho-social-spiritual assessment in which they gather
information about presenting concerns from the perspective of clients
and collateral sources.
Course equivalencies:  SOWK 380/SOWK 501   
Outcomes:
1) Describe the elements of strength-based and contextual assessments,
2) explain process of culturally informed assessment, 3) apply knowledge
by assessing client and community situations
SOWK 390   Research and Evaluation in Social Work Practice   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Undergraduate Social Work majors, Social Work minors, or
Human Services majors; Senior standing; For Social Work majors only:
A grade of "C" or higher in the following courses: SOWK 200, SOWK 370,
(SOWK 201 or 307), and SOWK 305   
This course introduces the methods of social work research, including
problem formulation, research ethics, research designs, measurement,
data collection, sampling, and data analysis through a social justice/anti-
racist/global perspective.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services, Urban Studies   
Course equivalencies:  SOWK 390/SOWK 506   
Outcomes:
1) Identify research literacy and research skills in order to be accountable,
and to evaluate their own practice, programs, and service delivery in the
ﬁeld, 2) understand the methods of social work research
Social Work (BSW)
The Bachelor in Social Work degree is a four-year program offering
generalist training in variety of social service settings in diverse
communities. Graduates of this program are well positioned for roles in
social services, including child welfare, community mental health, drug/
alcohol rehabilitation, and developmental disabilities. 
Related Programs
Minor
•Social Work Minor  (p. 954)
Combined
•Social Work (BSW/MSW)  (p. 1344 )
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesSOWK 200Introduction to Social Work3
SOWK 301 Practice Skills with Individuals and Families 3SOWK 303Group Work Practice in Social Work: Micro/Mezzo/
Macro3
SOWK 305 Life Span Development, Human Behavior, Trauma,
& Theory3SOWK 307Social Work Policy and Community Intervention3
SOWK 308 Integrated Micro, Mezzo, and Macro Practice 13

--- Page 921 ---
952  Social Work (BSW)
or SOWK 302 Integrated Micro/Mezzo/Macro Theory and PracticeSOWK 330Internship I and Simulated Experience3.5
SOWK 340 Internship II and Simulated Experience 3.5SOWK 350Preparation for Practice3
SOWK 362 Integrative Seminar 1SOWK 370Power, Oppression, Privilege, and Social Justice3
SOWK 380 Assessment of Client Concerns in Context 3SOWK 390Research and Evaluation in Social Work Practice3
Social Science Courses 15PSYC 101General PsychologySOCL 101 Society in a Global Age9 Credits of Social Science electives  2Total Hours53
1Students who began the major before Fall 2025 should take SOWK 302 .
Student who began the major in Fall 2025 or after, or who have not yet
completed SOWK 302, should take SOWK 308 .
2Social science electives can be drawn from multiple LUC majors and
are approved by the BSW program.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
See BSW Template  (https://catalog.luc.edu/undergraduate/social-work/
bsw-degree-program/BSW_Template.pdf )
Course Title Hours
Year 1
FallSOCL 101Society in a Global Age3 Hours3
Spring
PSYC 101 General Psychology 3SOWK 200Introduction to Social Work3 Hours6
Year 2
FallSocial Science Elective3 Hours3
SpringSocial Science Elective3SOWK 370Power, Oppression, Privilege, and Social
Justice3 Hours6
Year 3
Fall
Social Science Elective 3SOWK 307Social Work Policy and Community
Intervention3 Hours6SpringSOWK 305Life Span Development, Human Behavior,
Trauma, & Theory3SOWK 350Preparation for Practice3 Hours6
Year 4
Fall
SOWK 301 Practice Skills with Individuals and
Families3SOWK 330Internship I and Simulated Experience3.5
SOWK 362 Integrative Seminar 1SOWK 380Assessment of Client Concerns in Context3 Hours10.5
SpringSOWK 303Group Work Practice in Social Work: Micro/
Mezzo/Macro3
SOWK 308 Integrated Micro, Mezzo, and Macro
Practice3SOWK 340Internship II and Simulated Experience3.5SOWK 390Research and Evaluation in Social Work
Practice3 Hours12.5 Total Hours53
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
BSW Program Generalist Learning
Outcomes
Competency 1: Demonstrate Ethical and Professional
Behavior
Social workers understand the value base of the profession and its
ethical standards, as well as relevant policies, laws, and regulations that
may affect practice with individuals, families, groups, organizations, and
communities. Social workers understand that ethics are informed by
principles of  human rights and apply them toward realizing social, racial,
economic, and environmental justice in their practice. Social workers
understand frameworks of ethical decision making and apply principles
of critical thinking to those frameworks in practice, research, and policy
arenas.
Social workers recognize and manage personal values and the distinction
between personal and professional values. Social workers understand
how  their evolving worldview, personal experiences, and affective
reactions influence their professional judgment and behavior. Social
workers take  measures to care for themselves professionally and
personally, understanding that self-care is paramount for competent and
ethical social work  practice. Social workers use rights-based, anti- racist,
and anti-oppressive lenses to understand and critique the profession’s
history, mission, roles, and responsibilities and recognize historical and
current contexts of oppression in shaping institutions and social work.

--- Page 922 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 953
Social workers understand the role of other professionals when engaged
in interprofessional practice. Social workers recognize the importance of
lifelong learning and are committed to continually updating their skills to
ensure relevant and effective practice. Social workers understand digital
technology and the ethical use of technology in social work practice.
Social workers:
1.make ethical decisions by applying the standards of the National
Association of Social Workers Code of Ethics, relevant laws and
regulations, models for ethical decision making, ethical conduct of
research, and additional codes of ethics within the profession as
appropriate to the context;
2.demonstrate professional behavior; appearance; and oral, written, and
electronic communication;
3.use technology ethically and appropriately to facilitate practice
outcomes; and
4.use supervision and consultation to guide professional judgment and
behavior.
Competency 2: Advance Human Rights and Social,
Racial, Economic, and Environmental Justice
Social workers understand that every person regardless of position in
society has fundamental human rights. Social workers are knowledgeable
about the global intersecting and ongoing injustices throughout history
that result in oppression and racism, including social work’s role and
response.
Social workers critically evaluate the distribution of power and privilege
in society in order to promote social, racial, economic, and environmental
justice by reducing inequities and ensuring dignity and respect for
all. Social workers advocate for and engage in strategies to eliminate
oppressive structural barriers to ensure that social resources, rights,
and responsibilities are distributed equitably, and that civil, political,
economic, social, and cultural human rights are protected.
Social workers:
1.advocate for human rights at the individual, family, group,
organizational, and community system levels; and
2.engage in practices that advance human rights to promote social,
racial, economic, and environmental justice.
Competency 3: Engage Anti-Racism, Diversity, Equity,
and Inclusion (ADEI) in Practice
Social workers understand how racism and oppression shape human
experiences and how these two constructs influence practice at the
individual, family, group, organizational, and community levels and in
policy and research. Social workers understand the pervasive impact of
White supremacy and privilege and use their knowledge, awareness, and
skills to engage in anti-racist practice. Social workers understand how
diversity and intersectionality shape human experiences and identity
development and affect equity and inclusion. The dimensions of diversity
are understood as the intersectionality of factors including but not limited
to age, caste, class, color, culture, disability and ability, ethnicity, gender,
gender identity and expression, generational status, immigration status,
legal status, marital status, political ideology, race, nationality, religion
and spirituality, sex, sexual orientation, and tribal sovereign status. Social
workers understand that this intersectionality means that a person’s
life experiences may include oppression, poverty, marginalization, and
alienation as well as privilege and power. Social workers understand
the societal and historical roots of social and racial injustices andthe forms and mechanisms of oppression and discrimination. Social
workers understand cultural humility and recognize the extent to which
a culture’s structures and values, including social, economic, political,
racial, technological, and cultural exclusions, may create privilege and
power resulting in systemic oppression.
Social workers:
1.demonstrate anti-racist and anti-oppressive social work practice at
the individual, family, group, organizational, community, research, and
policy levels; and
2.demonstrate cultural humility by applying critical reflection,
self-awareness, and self- regulation to manage the influence
of bias, power, privilege, and values in working with clients and
constituencies, acknowledging them as experts of their own lived
experiences.
Competency 4: Engage in Practice-informed Research
and Research-informed Practice
Social workers use ethical, culturally informed, anti-racist, and anti-
oppressive approaches in conducting research and building knowledge.
Social workers use research to inform their practice decision making
and articulate how their practice experience informs research and
evaluation decisions. Social workers critically evaluate and critique
current, empirically sound research to inform decisions pertaining to
practice, policy, and programs. Social workers understand the inherent
bias in research and evaluate design, analysis, and interpretation
using an anti-racist and anti-oppressive perspective. Social workers
know how to access, critique, and synthesize the current literature to
develop appropriate research questions and hypotheses. Social workers
demonstrate knowledge and skills regarding qualitative and quantitative
research methods and analysis, and they interpret data derived from
these methods. Social workers demonstrate knowledge about methods
to assess reliability and validity in social work research. Social workers
can articulate and share research ﬁndings in ways that are usable to a
variety of clients and constituencies. Social workers understand the value
of evidence derived from interprofessional and diverse research methods,
approaches, and sources.
Social workers:
1.apply research ﬁndings to inform and improve practice, policy, and
programs; and
2.identify ethical, culturally informed, anti-racist, and anti-op pressive
strategies that address inherent biases for use in quantitative and
qualitative research methods to advance the purposes of social work.
Competency 5: Engage in Policy Practice
Social workers identify social policy at the local, state, federal, and global
level that affect well-being, human rights and justice, service delivery,
and access to social services. Social workers recognize the historical,
social, racial, cultural, economic, organizational, environmental, and
global influences that affect social policy. Social workers understand
and critique the history and current structures of social policies and
services and the role of policy in service delivery through rights- based,
anti-oppressive, and anti-racist lenses. Social workers influence policy
formulation, analysis, implementation, and evaluation within their
practice settings with individuals, families, groups, organizations, and
communities. Social workers actively engage in and advocate for anti-
racist and anti-oppressive policy practice to effect change in those
settings.

--- Page 923 ---
954  Social Work Minor
Social workers:
1.use social justice, anti-racist, and anti-oppressive lenses to assess
how social welfare policies affect the delivery of and access to social
services; and
2.apply critical thinking to analyze, formulate, and advocate for
policies that advance human rights and social, racial, economic, and
environmental justice.
Competency 6: Engage with Individuals, Families,
Groups, Organizations, and Communities
Social workers understand that engagement is an ongoing component of
the dynamic and interactive process of social work practice with and on
behalf of individuals, families, groups, organizations, and communities.
Social workers value the importance of human relationships. Social
workers understand theories of human behavior and person-in-
environment and critically evaluate and apply this knowledge to facilitate
engagement with clients and constituencies, including individuals,
families, groups, organizations, and communities. Social workers are
self-reflective and understand how bias, power, and privilege as well as
their personal values and personal experiences may affect their ability
to engage effectively with diverse clients and constituencies. Social
workers use the principles of interprofessional collaboration to facilitate
engagement with clients, constituencies, and other professionals as
appropriate.
Social workers:
1.apply knowledge of human behavior and person-in-environment, as
well as interprofessional conceptual frameworks, to engage with
clients and constituencies; and
2.use empathy, reflection, and interpersonal skills to engage in
culturally responsive practice with clients and constituencies.
Competency 7: Assess Individuals, Families, Groups,
Organizations, and Communities
Social workers understand that assessment is an ongoing component
of the dynamic and interactive process of social work practice. Social
workers understand theories of human behavior and person-in-
environment, as well as interprofessional conceptual frameworks, and
they critically evaluate and apply this knowledge in culturally responsive
assessment with clients and constituencies, including individuals,
families, groups, organizations, and communities. Assessment
involves a collaborative process of deﬁning presenting challenges and
identifying strengths with individuals, families, groups, organizations,
and communities to develop a mutually agreed-upon plan. Social
workers recognize the implications of the larger practice context in the
assessment process and use interprofessional collaboration in this
process. Social workers are self-reflective and understand how bias,
power, privilege, and their personal values and experiences may affect
their assessment and decision making.
Social workers:
1.apply theories of human behavior and person-in-environment, as
well as other culturally responsive and interprofessional conceptual
frameworks, when assessing clients and constituencies; and
2.demonstrate respect for client self-determination during the
assessment process by collaborating with clients and constituencies
in developing a mutually agreed-upon plan.Competency 8: Intervene with Individuals, Families,
Groups, Organizations, and Communities
Social workers understand that intervention is an ongoing component
of the dynamic and interactive process of social work practice. Social
workers understand theories of human behavior, person-in-environment,
and other interprofessional conceptual frameworks, and they critically
evaluate and apply this knowledge in selecting culturally responsive
interventions with clients and constituencies, including individuals,
families, groups, organizations, and communities. Social workers
understand methods of identifying, analyzing, and implementing
evidence-informed interventions and participate in interprofessional
collaboration to achieve client and constituency goals. Social workers
facilitate effective transitions and endings.
Social workers:
1.engage with clients and constituencies to critically choose and
implement culturally responsive, evidence-informed interventions to
achieve client and constituency goals; and
2.incorporate culturally responsive methods to negotiate, mediate, and
advocate with and on behalf of clients and constituencies.
Competency 9: Evaluate Practice with Individuals,
Families, Groups, Organizations, and Communities
Social workers understand that evaluation is an ongoing component
of the dynamic and interactive process of social work practice with
and on behalf of diverse individuals, families, groups, organizations,
and communities. Social workers evaluate processes and outcomes
to increase practice, policy, and service delivery effectiveness. Social
workers apply anti-racist and anti-oppressive perspectives in evaluating
outcomes. Social workers understand theories of human behavior
and person-in-environment, as well as interprofessional conceptual
frameworks, and critically evaluate and apply this knowledge in
evaluating outcomes. Social workers use qualitative and quantitative
methods for evaluating outcomes and practice effectiveness.
Social workers:
1.select and use culturally responsive methods for evaluation of
outcomes; and
2.critically analyze outcomes and apply evaluation ﬁndings to
improve practice effectiveness with individuals, families, groups,
organizations, and communities.
Social Work Minor
Students interested in a social work minor are required to take a
sequence of six courses (totaling 18 credit hours) which must include
four required courses and two social work electives. Grades of “C” or
better must be earned in all minor courses.
Related Programs
Major
•Social Work (BSW)  (p. 951)
Combined
•Social Work (BSW/MSW)  (p. 1344 )

--- Page 924 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 955
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Minor RequirementsSOWK 200Introduction to Social Work3
SOWK 307 Social Work Policy and Community Intervention 3SOWK 305Life Span Development, Human Behavior, Trauma,
& Theory3
SOWK 370 Power, Oppression, Privilege, and Social Justice 3Elective Courses  (p.  )Select two of the following: 6SOWK 361Special TopicsSOWK 390 Research and Evaluation in Social Work PracticeSOWK 709Social Work and LawSOWK 722 Introduction to Alcohol and Other Drug DisordersSOWK 730Immigration Dynamics and U.S. Social PolicySOWK 731 Social Work Practice with Refugees and
ImmigrantsSOWK 732Migration, Social Justice, and Human RightsSOWK 733 North American Migration Dynamics, Challenges &
OpportunitySOWK 734Social Policy and Older AdultsSOWK 735Loss, Grief, and DyingTotal Hours18
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
FallSOWK 200Introduction to Social Work ( Freshman year
or later )3 Hours3
Year 2
FallSOWK 370Power, Oppression, Privilege, and Social
Justice ( Sophomore year or later )3 Hours3
Year 3
Fall
SOWK 307 Social Work Policy and Community
Intervention ( Junior year or later )3SOWK Elective (Junior year or later)3 Hours6
SpringSOWK 305Life Span Development, Human Behavior,
Trauma, & Theory ( Junior year or later )3SOWK Elective (Junior year or later)3 Hours6 Total Hours18
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Learning Outcomes
The minor's learning outcomes are the following competencies from the
BSW outcomes:
Competency 1: Demonstrate Ethical and Professional
Behavior
Social workers understand the value base of the profession and its
ethical standards, as well as relevant policies, laws, and regulations that
may affect practice with individuals, families, groups, organizations, and
communities. Social workers understand that ethics are informed by
principles of  human rights and apply them toward realizing social, racial,
economic, and environmental justice in their practice. Social workers
understand frameworks of ethical decision making and apply principles
of critical thinking to those frameworks in practice, research, and policy
arenas.
Social workers recognize and manage personal values and the distinction
between personal and professional values. Social workers understand
how  their evolving worldview, personal experiences, and affective
reactions influence their professional judgment and behavior. Social
workers take  measures to care for themselves professionally and
personally, understanding that self-care is paramount for competent and
ethical social work  practice. Social workers use rights-based, anti- racist,
and anti-oppressive lenses to understand and critique the profession’s
history, mission, roles, and responsibilities and recognize historical and
current contexts of oppression in shaping institutions and social work.
Social workers understand the role of other professionals when engaged
in interprofessional practice. Social workers recognize the importance of
lifelong learning and are committed to continually updating their skills to
ensure relevant and effective practice. Social workers understand digital
technology and the ethical use of technology in social work practice.
Social workers:
1.make ethical decisions by applying the standards of the National
Association of Social Workers Code of Ethics, relevant laws and
regulations, models for ethical decision making, ethical conduct of
research, and additional codes of ethics within the profession as
appropriate to the context;
2.demonstrate professional behavior; appearance; and oral, written, and
electronic communication;
3.use technology ethically and appropriately to facilitate practice
outcomes; and
4.use supervision and consultation to guide professional judgment and
behavior.
Competency 2: Advance Human Rights and Social,
Racial, Economic, and Environmental Justice
Social workers understand that every person regardless of position in
society has fundamental human rights. Social workers are knowledgeable
about the global intersecting and ongoing injustices throughout history

--- Page 925 ---
956  Social Work Minor
that result in oppression and racism, including social work’s role and
response.
Social workers critically evaluate the distribution of power and privilege
in society in order to promote social, racial, economic, and environmental
justice by reducing inequities and ensuring dignity and respect for
all. Social workers advocate for and engage in strategies to eliminate
oppressive structural barriers to ensure that social resources, rights,
and responsibilities are distributed equitably, and that civil, political,
economic, social, and cultural human rights are protected.
Social workers:
1.advocate for human rights at the individual, family, group,
organizational, and community system levels; and
2.engage in practices that advance human rights to promote social,
racial, economic, and environmental justice.
Competency 3: Engage Anti-Racism, Diversity, Equity,
and Inclusion (ADEI) in Practice
Social workers understand how racism and oppression shape human
experiences and how these two constructs influence practice at the
individual, family, group, organizational, and community levels and in
policy and research. Social workers understand the pervasive impact of
White supremacy and privilege and use their knowledge, awareness, and
skills to engage in anti-racist practice. Social workers understand how
diversity and intersectionality shape human experiences and identity
development and affect equity and inclusion. The dimensions of diversity
are understood as the intersectionality of factors including but not limited
to age, caste, class, color, culture, disability and ability, ethnicity, gender,
gender identity and expression, generational status, immigration status,
legal status, marital status, political ideology, race, nationality, religion
and spirituality, sex, sexual orientation, and tribal sovereign status. Social
workers understand that this intersectionality means that a person’s
life experiences may include oppression, poverty, marginalization, and
alienation as well as privilege and power. Social workers understand
the societal and historical roots of social and racial injustices and
the forms and mechanisms of oppression and discrimination. Social
workers understand cultural humility and recognize the extent to which
a culture’s structures and values, including social, economic, political,
racial, technological, and cultural exclusions, may create privilege and
power resulting in systemic oppression.
Social workers:
1.demonstrate anti-racist and anti-oppressive social work practice at
the individual, family, group, organizational, community, research, and
policy levels; and
2.demonstrate cultural humility by applying critical reflection,
self-awareness, and self- regulation to manage the influence
of bias, power, privilege, and values in working with clients and
constituencies, acknowledging them as experts of their own lived
experiences.
Competency 4: Engage in Practice-informed Research
and Research-informed Practice
Social workers use ethical, culturally informed, anti-racist, and anti-
oppressive approaches in conducting research and building knowledge.
Social workers use research to inform their practice decision making
and articulate how their practice experience informs research and
evaluation decisions. Social workers critically evaluate and critique
current, empirically sound research to inform decisions pertaining topractice, policy, and programs. Social workers understand the inherent
bias in research and evaluate design, analysis, and interpretation
using an anti-racist and anti-oppressive perspective. Social workers
know how to access, critique, and synthesize the current literature to
develop appropriate research questions and hypotheses. Social workers
demonstrate knowledge and skills regarding qualitative and quantitative
research methods and analysis, and they interpret data derived from
these methods. Social workers demonstrate knowledge about methods
to assess reliability and validity in social work research. Social workers
can articulate and share research ﬁndings in ways that are usable to a
variety of clients and constituencies. Social workers understand the value
of evidence derived from interprofessional and diverse research methods,
approaches, and sources.
Social workers:
1.apply research ﬁndings to inform and improve practice, policy, and
programs; and
2.identify ethical, culturally informed, anti-racist, and anti-op pressive
strategies that address inherent biases for use in quantitative and
qualitative research methods to advance the purposes of social work.
Competency 5: Engage in Policy Practice
Social workers identify social policy at the local, state, federal, and global
level that affect well-being, human rights and justice, service delivery,
and access to social services. Social workers recognize the historical,
social, racial, cultural, economic, organizational, environmental, and
global influences that affect social policy. Social workers understand
and critique the history and current structures of social policies and
services and the role of policy in service delivery through rights- based,
anti-oppressive, and anti-racist lenses. Social workers influence policy
formulation, analysis, implementation, and evaluation within their
practice settings with individuals, families, groups, organizations, and
communities. Social workers actively engage in and advocate for anti-
racist and anti-oppressive policy practice to effect change in those
settings.
Social workers:
1.use social justice, anti-racist, and anti-oppressive lenses to assess
how social welfare policies affect the delivery of and access to social
services; and
2.apply critical thinking to analyze, formulate, and advocate for
policies that advance human rights and social, racial, economic, and
environmental justice.
Competency 6: Engage with Individuals, Families,
Groups, Organizations, and Communities
Social workers understand that engagement is an ongoing component of
the dynamic and interactive process of social work practice with and on
behalf of individuals, families, groups, organizations, and communities.
Social workers value the importance of human relationships. Social
workers understand theories of human behavior and person-in-
environment and critically evaluate and apply this knowledge to facilitate
engagement with clients and constituencies, including individuals,
families, groups, organizations, and communities. Social workers are
self-reflective and understand how bias, power, and privilege as well as
their personal values and personal experiences may affect their ability
to engage effectively with diverse clients and constituencies. Social
workers use the principles of interprofessional collaboration to facilitate

--- Page 926 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 957
engagement with clients, constituencies, and other professionals as
appropriate.
Social workers:
1.apply knowledge of human behavior and person-in-environment, as
well as interprofessional conceptual frameworks, to engage with
clients and constituencies; and
2.use empathy, reflection, and interpersonal skills to engage in
culturally responsive practice with clients and constituencies.
Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's
Program
Programs
•Accounting (BBA/MSA)  (p. 959)
•Advertising & Public Relations/Environmental Science and
Sustainability (BA/MS)  (p. 963)
•Advertising & Public Relations/Global Strategic Communication (BA/
MS) (p. 969)
•Advertising & Public Relations/International Affairs (BA/MA)
(p. 972)
•Advertising & Public Relations/Marketing (BA/MSM)  (p. 978)
•Advertising Creative/Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/
MS) (p. 982)
•Advertising Creative/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 987)
•Advocacy and Social Change/Environmental Science and
Sustainability (BA/MS)  (p. 992)
•Advocacy and Social Change/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 998)
•Applied Psychology/Public Service Leadership (BA/MA)  (p. 1003 )
•Biochemistry (BS/MS)  (p. 1006 )
•Bioinformatics (BS/MS)  (p. 1010 )
•Biology/Business (BS/MBA)  (p. 1015 )
•Biology/Secondary Education (BS/MEd)  (p. 1020 )
•Biology/Bioinformatics (BS/MS)  (p. 1026 )
•Business Administration (BBA/MBA)  (p. 1033 )
•Business/Accountancy (BBA/MSA)  (p. 1035 )
•Business/Business Analytics (BBA/MS)  (p. 1039 )
•Business/Finance (BBA/MSF)  (p. 1042 )
•Business/Human Resources (BBA/MSHR)  (p. 1044 )
•Business/Marketing (BBA/MSM)  (p. 1047 )
•Business/Supply Chain Management (BBA/MSSCM)  (p. 1050 )
•Chemistry (BS/MS)  (p. 1053 )
•Communication Studies/Environmental Science and Sustainability
(BA/MS)  (p. 1057 )
•Communication Studies/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1062 )
•Computer Science (BS/MS)  (p. 1068 )
•Criminal Justice and Criminology (BS/MA)  (p. 1072 )
•Criminal Justice and Criminology/International Affairs (BS/MA)
(p. 1075 )
•Data Science (BS/MS)  (p. 1080 )
•Data Science/Applied Statistics (BS/MS)  (p. 1083 )
•Data Science/Mathematics (BS/MS)  (p. 1086 )
•Elementary Education/International Affairs (BSEd/MA)  (p. 1089 )
•English (BA/MA)  (p. 1095 )•Environmental Economics & Sustainability: Governance/
Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)  (p. 1099 )
•Environmental Economics & Sustainability: Management/
Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)  (p. 1103 )
•Environmental Policy/Digital Media and Storytelling (BA/MC)
(p. 1108 )
•Environmental Policy/Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/
MS) (p. 1112 )
•Environmental Policy/Global Strategic Communication (BA/MS)
(p. 1117 )
•Environmental Policy/Public Policy (BA/MPP)  (p. 1122 )
•Environmental Science/Business (BS/MBA)  (p. 1127 )
•Environmental Science/Digital Media and Storytelling (BS/MC)
(p. 1133 )
•Environmental Science/Environmental Science and Sustainability
(BS/MS)  (p. 1139 )
•Environmental Science/Global Strategic Communication (BS/MS)
(p. 1146 )
•Environmental Science/Public Health (BS/MPH)  (p. 1153 )
•Environmental Science/Public Policy (BS/MPP)  (p. 1159 )
•Environmental Studies/Business (BA/MBA)  (p. 1166 )
•Environmental Studies/Digital Media and Storytelling (BA/MC)
(p. 1171 )
•Environmental Studies/Environmental Science and Sustainability
(BA/MS)  (p. 1176 )
•Environmental Studies/Global Strategic Communication (BA/MS)
(p. 1182 )
•Environmental Studies/Public Policy (BA/MPP)  (p. 1187 )
•Exercise Science (BS/MS)  (p. 1192 )
•Film and Digital Media: Film and Media Production Track/
Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)  (p. 1196 )
•Film and Digital Media: Film and Media Production Track/
International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1202 )
•Film and Digital Media: International Programming Track/
Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)  (p. 1208 )
•Film and Digital Media: International Programming Track/
International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1214 )
•Global Studies/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1219 )
•Healthcare Administration (BS/MHA)  (p. 1227 )
•Healthcare Administration/Business (BS/MBA)  (p. 1231 )
•Healthcare Administration/Public Health (BS/MPH)  (p. 1234 )
•Hispanic Studies (BA/MA)  (p. 1237 )
•History (BA/MA)  (p. 1240 )
•History/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1245 )
•Information Technology (BA/MS)  (p. 1251 )
•Information Technology (BS/MS)  (p. 1254 )
•Information Technology/Computer Science (BA/MS)  (p. 1259 )
•Information Technology/Information Technology Leadership and
Strategy (BA/MPS)  (p. 1262 )
•Information Technology/Instructional Design (BA/MPS)  (p. 1264 )
•Management/Information Technology Leadership and Strategy (BA/
MPS)  (p. 1267 )
•Management/Instructional Design (BA/MPS)  (p. 1270 )
•Management/Public Service Leadership (BA/MA)  (p. 1273 )
•Mathematics (BS/MS)  (p. 1275 )

--- Page 927 ---
958  Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's Program
•Mathematics/Applied Statistics (BS/MS)  (p. 1279 )
•Mathematics and Computer Science/Applied Statistics (BS/MS)
(p. 1282 )
•Mathematics and Computer Science/Mathematics (BS/MS)
(p. 1284 )
•Mathematics - Education Track/Applied Statistics (BS/MS)  (p. 1287 )
•Mathematics - Education Track/Mathematics (BS/MS)  (p. 1290 )
•Multimedia Journalism/Environmental Science and Sustainability
(BA/MS)  (p. 1292 )
•Multimedia Journalism/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1298 )
•Philosophy (BA/MA)  (p. 1303 )
•Philosophy/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1306 )
•Physics/Secondary Education (BS/MEd)  (p. 1310 )
•Political Science (BA/MA)  (p. 1313 )
•Political Science/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1318 )
•Psychology/Applied Social Psychology (BS/MA)  (p. 1324 )
•Psychology/International Affairs (BS/MA)  (p. 1327 )
•Public Health (BS/MPH)  (p. 1332 )
•Secondary Education/International Affairs (BSEd/MA)  (p. 1335 )
•Social Work (BSW/MSW)  (p. 1344 )
•Social Work/International Affairs (BSW/MA)  (p. 1355 )
•Sociology (BA/MA)  (p. 1361 )
•Sociology/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1364 )
•Software Engineering (BS/MS)  (p. 1368 )
•Special Education/International Affairs (BSEd/MA)  (p. 1372 )
•Statistics/Applied Statistics (BS/MS)  (p. 1378 )
•Statistics/Mathematics (BS/MS)  (p. 1381 )
•Theology (BA/MA)  (p. 1384 )
•Theology/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1388 )
•Theoretical Physics and Applied Mathematics/Applied Statistics (BS/
MS) (p. 1393 )
•Theoretical Physics and Applied Mathematics/Mathematics (BS/MS)
(p. 1396 )
•Web Technologies/Information Technology Leadership and Strategy
(BA/MPS)  (p. 1400 )
•Web Technologies/Instructional Design (BA/MPS)  (p. 1403 )
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may chooseto have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level

--- Page 928 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 959
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Please see Undergraduate Policies and Procedures  (p. 2283 ) for
academic policies that supersede those of academic units within the
University.
Graduate & Professional Standards and
Regulations
Students in graduate and professional programs can ﬁnd their Academic
Policies in Graduate and Professional Academic Standards and
Regulations  (p. 2300 ) under their school. Any additional University
Policies supersede school policies.
Accounting (BBA/MSA)
Loyola's BBA/MSA degree program is rigorous yet flexible. Interested
and qualiﬁed students should apply to complete the master's portion
of the program during the second semester of their junior year to take
advantage of an MSA program 2-course reduction opportunity.
Students can apply to the MSA program at any time during their
academic career. BBA/MSA students can complete the graduate
coursework component in one year.
Related Programs
Major
•Accounting (BBA)  (p. 758)
•Accounting and Analytics (BBA)  (p. 760)
Combined
•Accounting (MBA/MSA)  (p. 2206 )
Curriculum
All Quinlan School of Business students must complete the University
Core Curriculum, Business Core Curriculum, and Undergraduate School of
Business program requirements.

--- Page 929 ---
960  Accounting (BBA/MSA)
Code Title Hours
Undergraduate Business Program RequirementsCOMM 103Business & Professional Speaking 13
MATH 110 Business Precalculus 23-4
or MATH 130 Business CalculusETHC 341Ethics in Business3
QUIN 101 Business Learning and Careers 0QUIN 102Financial Literacy and Well-Being1
QUIN 202 Career Preparation 2Writing IntensiveSelect two Writing Intensive courses  36Global AwarenessSelect one of the following:  43ANTH 100Globalization and Local CulturesANTH 102 Culture, Society, and DiversityGLST 101Introduction to Global StudiesPLSC 102 International Relations in an Age of GlobalizationAny business course from the International Business major groupBusiness Core CurriculumACCT 201Introductory Accounting I3
ACCT 202 Introductory Accounting II 3ECON 201Principles of Microeconomics3
ECON 202 Principles of Macroeconomics 3FINC 301Introductory Business Finance3or FINC 334Principles of Corporate Finance
INFS 247 Business Information Systems 3INFS 343Business Analytics3or ECON 346Econometrics
ISSCM 241 Business Statistics
or STAT 103 Fundamentals of StatisticsLREB 315Law and the Regulatory Environment of Business I3
MARK 201 Principles of Marketing 3MGMT 201Managing People and Organizations3
MGMT 304 Strategic Management 3SCMG 232Introduction to Supply Chain Management3
BBA Accounting Major RequirementsACCT 303Intermediate Accounting I3
ACCT 304 Intermediate Accounting II 3ACCT 311Auditing & Internal Control Systems3
ACCT 317 Managerial Accounting 3ACCT 328Concepts in Taxation3
Select three of the following: 9ACCT 306Advanced Financial AccountingACCT 307 Adv Accounting: Not-For-Proﬁt Entities & Adv
Financial Accounting TopicsACCT 308Accounting Information Systems and
Sustainability ReportingACCT 323 Advanced CPA TopicsACCT 326Fraud InvestigationACCT 341 Advanced Studies in TaxationACCT 399Special Topics in Accounting 5MS Accountancy Course RequirementsEthics CourseETHC 441N Business Ethics 3
or MGMT 446 International Business Ethics
or INFS 795 Ethics and Data AnalyticsMS Accountancy Core Classes18
ACCT 402 Issues in Financial ReportingACCT 404Financial State AnalysisACCT 412 Special Topics in AccountingACCT 424Managerial AccountingACCT 425 International AccountingACCT 431Tax ResearchACCT 432 State, Local and International TaxACCT 436Forensic Accounting and FraudACCT 437 Advanced Forensic AccountingLREB 445Entrepreneurship LawElectives  6Two MBA non-accounting elective courses6Three electives (MBA or MSA)9Total Hours117-118
1Accounting majors with prior credit for  COMM 101  Public Speaking &
Critical Thinking  must take  ENGL 210  Business Writing  to complete this
requirement.
2Students majoring in Economics or Finance should take MATH 130
Business Calculus  (or MATH 131 Applied Calculus I  or MATH 161
Calculus I ).  All other students take MATH 110 Business Precalculus  (or
MATH 131 Applied Calculus I ).
3One must be a Quinlan course or  ENGL 210 Business Writing .
4A study abroad experience will also satisfy this requirement.
5Only one  ACCT 399  Special Topics in Accounting  class is allowed to
count for this major.
6Students work with the MSA program director in choosing electives.
Major Requirements
BBA Accounting Major Requirements:  Undergraduate students who
choose to complete the accounting major must complete 24 credit
hours within the major (not including  ACCT 201 Introductory Accounting
I/ACCT 202 Introductory Accounting II ).
BBA/MSA Requirements:  BBA/MSA students must complete 12
additional courses (36 hours) beyond the BBA accounting major
requirements. This includes six graduate accounting courses (six MSA-
level), one graduate business ethics course, two MBA elective courses
(non-accounting), and three general elective courses (MBA, MSA).
Students choosing the BBA/MSA program may take two graduate
accounting courses during their senior year that would count towards
both the undergraduate and graduate accounting hours requirement.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.

--- Page 930 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 961
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Semester IACCT 201Introductory Accounting I3 Hours3
Semester IIACCT 202Introductory Accounting II3 Hours3
Year 2
Semester I
ACCT 303 Intermediate Accounting I 3ACCT 328Concepts in Taxation3 Hours6
Semester IIACCT 304Intermediate Accounting II3ACCT 311Auditing & Internal Control Systems3 Hours6
Year 3
Semester I
ACCT 317 Managerial Accounting 3Select one accounting elective of the following:3
ACCT 306 Advanced Financial Accounting  ACCT 308Accounting Information Systems and
Sustainability Reporting 
ACCT 323 Advanced CPA Topics  ACCT 341Advanced Studies in Taxation ACCT 399Special Topics in Accounting  Hours6
Semester II
Select one accounting elective of the following: 3ACCT 306Advanced Financial Accounting 
ACCT 323 Advanced CPA Topics  ACCT 341Advanced Studies in Taxation ACCT 399Special Topics in Accounting  Hours3
Year 4
Semester I
Select one accounting elective of the following: 3ACCT 306Advanced Financial Accounting 
ACCT 308 Accounting Information Systems and
Sustainability Reporting ACCT 323Advanced CPA Topics 
ACCT 341 Advanced Studies in Taxation  ACCT 399Special Topics in Accounting Also, consider graduate accounting class if BBA/MSA student.  Hours3
Semester II
Select one accounting elective of the following: 3ACCT 306Advanced Financial Accounting 
ACCT 308 Accounting Information Systems and
Sustainability Reporting ACCT 323Advanced CPA Topics ACCT 341 Advanced Studies in Taxation  ACCT 399Special Topics in Accounting Also, consider graduate accounting class if BBA/MSA student.  Hours3
Year 5
Semester IMeet with MSA program director  Hours0 Total Hours33
Note: If you are an undergraduate accounting major, some modiﬁcation of
the 12-course MSA program requirement is possible if you opt for taking
up to two graduate accounting classes while in your senior year. You can
also double count these courses towards the undergraduate accounting
major requirement.
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2

--- Page 931 ---
962  Accounting (BBA/MSA)
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to theAccelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional

--- Page 932 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 963
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•Deep and broad understanding of accounting and business
•Strategic cost management
•Financial management
•Auditing and business risk
•Legal and regulatory knowledge
•Ethics and values in accounting and business
•Decision-making and problem-solving skills
•International implications of accounting and business decisions
Advertising & Public Relations/
Environmental Science and
Sustainability (BA/MS)
Loyola’s School of Communication, in partnership with the School of
Environmental Sustainability, offers a program that enables students
to earn an undergraduate and graduate degree in environmental
communication in ﬁve years.
The Accelerated Bachelor's to Master's program allows SOC students to
earn their undergraduate degree in their declared major, plus a master’s
degree in Environmental Science and Sustainability.
Similarly, SES students can earn their undergraduate degree in
their declared major, while also earning a master’s degree from the
SOC in either the Digital Media and Storytelling or Global Strategic
Communication graduate programs.
The two schools developed the Accelerated Bachelor's to
Master's program to train environmental scientists to be better
communicators, and communication professionals to better understand
environmental science.
These 4+1 programs are uniquely applied and strongly interdisciplinary.
They integrate basic science concepts, communication theory and
practice, and socio-cultural dimensions to cultivate the interdisciplinary
problem-solving and communication skills necessary for developing
sustainable solutions. The goals of these programs are to:
•Educate students across the sciences, social sciences and
humanities, providing knowledge and interdisciplinary perspectives
needed to effectively address complex environmental problems
through grounding in solid scientiﬁc understanding of ecosystem
operation.
•Develop skills in environmental and sustainability sciences including
GIS, sustainability tracking, and environmental communications
as well as important professional skills, such as interdisciplinary
thinking, systems thinking, research design, data collection, data
analysis, research ethics, technical writing, and communication.
•Improve communication skills by teaching students how to tell
stories through enhanced speaking and presentation methods, better
writing, video production, recording podcasts, developing blogs and
social media.•Prepare students for advancement in careers in the public and private
sectors, including in government agencies, consulting ﬁrms, media
organizations, businesses, and not-for-proﬁt organizations.
For more information, email:   LoyolaSOC@luc.edu
Related Programs
Major
•Advertising Public Relations (BA)  (p. 814)
Combined
•Advertising Public Relations/Global Strategic Communication (BA/
MS) (p. 969)
•Advertising Public Relations/Marketing (BA/MSM)  (p. 978)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
BA RequirementsSOC Foundation CoursesCOMM 100 SOC Career Prep Seminar 1COMM 175Introduction to Communication3
COMM 200 Digital Communication and Society 3COMM 215Ethics & Communication3
Required BA CoursesCOMM 210Principles of Public Relations3
COMM 211 Principles of Advertising 3COMM 213Digital Foundations3
MARK 201 Principles of Marketing 3Research Course3
Select one of the following:COMM 363Research Methods in Advertising/Public RelationsISSCM 241 Business StatisticsSTAT 103Fundamentals of StatisticsChoose One Specialized Focus 9Advertising FocusCOMM 214 Introduction to Creative ConceptsCOMM 317Media PlanningSelect one of the following:COMM 331Social Media AdvertisingCOMM 334 Mobile AdvertisingCOMM 336Search & Display AdvertisingPublic Relations FocusCOMM 314Public Relations CasesCOMM 318 Public Relations WritingSelect one of the following:COMM 313 Corporate and Organizational CommunicationCOMM 320Public Service CommunicationCOMM 375 Media RelationsIntegrated FocusSelect one of the following:COMM 317Media PlanningCOMM 331 Social Media AdvertisingCOMM 334Mobile Advertising

--- Page 933 ---
964  Advertising & Public Relations/Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)
Select one of the following:COMM 313Corporate and Organizational CommunicationCOMM 314 Public Relations CasesCOMM 320Public Service CommunicationCOMM 375 Media RelationsSelect one of the following:COMM 214 Introduction to Creative ConceptsCOMM 318Public Relations WritingInternship & Capstone  1COMM 389Advertising Creative Capstone: Portfolio II3
COMM 391 Advertising/Public Relations Internship 3Electives  2COMM 406 Environmental Advocacy 3COMM 479Digital Sustainability3
MS RequirementsRequired MS Courses  26
ENVS 401 Sustainable Systems - Natural Science
PerspectivesENVS 402Sustainable Systems - Social Science PerspectivesChoose One of Four Concentrations:  39-12Environmental Law & PolicyENVS 410 Introduction to Environmental Law & PolicyENVS 411Natural Resources and Land Use Law & PolicyENVS 412 Water Law & PolicyENVS 413Energy Law & PolicyGeographic Information SystemsENVS 480Introduction to Geographic Information SystemsENVS 481 Advanced GIS ApplicationsENVS 482Remote SensingSustainable Assessment and PlanningENVS 451Introduction to Sustainability Concepts & ImpactsENVS 452 Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IENVS 453Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IIENVS 454 Sustainability Plan Development & ReportingSustainable BusinessENVS 433 Introduction to the Circular EconomyENVS 435Ecological EconomicsENVS 436 Design for Circular & Sustainable BusinessENVS 463Sustainable Business ManagementEnvironmental Science Quantitative Methods Electives  (p. 964) 46-9Students will take at least two courses from the list of electivesTotal Hours70
1A student must be junior or senior standing with a minimum of 18
major credit hours completed before an internship.
2Courses to be taken as an undergrad in student's Senior year.
3Begin MS program full-time at the start with the concentration work.
4Students choosing the Geographical Information Systems track must
take an additional elective course to meet a total of 24 credit hours for
the MS.MS Environmental Science & Quantitative Methods
Electives
Code Title Hours
BIOL 470 Biostats & Exp Design Lec/Lab 4ENVS 420Conservation Biology3
ENVS 422 Invasive Species 3ENVS 425Sustainable Agriculture3
ENVS 426 Agroecosystems 3ENVS 427Food Systems Analysis3
ENVS 430 Restoration Ecology 3ENVS 438Climate Change and Human Health3
ENVS 469 Field Ornithology 3ENVS 484Conservation Economics3
ENVS 487 Principles of Ecotoxicology 3ENVS 4883
ENVS 489 Ecological Risk Assessment 3MPBH 401Environmental Health3
MPBH 403 Introduction to Epidemiology 3MPBH 404Biostatistics for Health and Biological Science3
MPBH 409 Biostatistics I 3MPBH 412Intro to Statistical Computing for Public Health2
MPBH 421 Biostatistics II 3MPP 401Analytical Tools in Public Policy3
MPP 402 Cost Beneﬁt Analysis 3MPP 403Public Budget and Finance3
MPP 405 Statistical Methods & Analysis for Public Policy I 3MPP 406Statistical Methods & Analysis Public Policy II3
SOCL 414 Statistical Methods Analysis I 3SOCL 415Statistical Methods of Analysis II3
STAT 403 SAS Program & Applied Statistics 3STAT 407Statistical Design3
STAT 408 Applied Regression Analysis 3STAT 410Categorical Data Analysis3
STAT 411 Applied Survival Analysis 3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
With MS Law & Policy Track
Course Title Hours
First Year
FallCOMM 175Introduction to Communication3 Hours3
Spring
COMM 210 Principles of Public Relations 3COMM 211Principles of Advertising3 Hours6

--- Page 934 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 965
Second Year
FallCOMM 200 
or COMM 215Digital Communication and Society 
or Ethics & Communication3 Hours3
SpringCOMM 200 
or COMM 215Digital Communication and Society ( if not
already taken ) 
or Ethics & Communication3
COMM 213 Digital Foundations 3MARK 201Principles of Marketing3 Hours9
Third Year
FallCOMM 100SOC Career Prep Seminar1
BA Major Focus Course 3BA Major Focus Course3 Hours7
SpringBA Major Focus Course3Research Course3 Hours6
Fourth Year
Fall
COMM 386 
or COMM 391Advertising/Public Relations Capstone 
or Advertising/Public Relations
Internship3COMM 406 
or COMM 479Environmental Advocacy 
or Digital Sustainability3ENVS 402Sustainable Systems - Social Science
Perspectives3 Hours9
Spring
COMM 386 
or COMM 391Advertising/Public Relations Capstone ( if
not already taken ) 
or Advertising/Public Relations
Internship3COMM 406 
or COMM 479Environmental Advocacy 
or Digital Sustainability3ENVS 401Sustainable Systems - Natural Science
Perspectives3 Hours9
Fifth Year
Fall
ENVS 410 Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy 3ENVS 411Natural Resources and Land Use Law &
Policy3MS Major Elective3 Hours9
Spring
ENVS 412 Water Law & Policy 3ENVS 413Energy Law & Policy3MS Major Elective3 Hours9 Total Hours70
With MS Geographical Information Systems Track
Course Title Hours
First Year
FallCOMM 175Introduction to Communication3 Hours3
Spring
COMM 210 Principles of Public Relations 3COMM 211Principles of Advertising3 Hours6
Second Year
FallCOMM 200 
or COMM 215Digital Communication and Society 
or Ethics & Communication3 Hours3
SpringCOMM 200 
or COMM 215Digital Communication and Society ( if not
already taken ) 
or Ethics & Communication3
COMM 213 Digital Foundations 3MARK 201Principles of Marketing3 Hours9
Third Year
FallCOMM 100SOC Career Prep Seminar1
BA Major Focus Course 3BA Major Focus Course3 Hours7
SpringBA Major Focus Course3Research Course3 Hours6
Fourth Year
Fall
COMM 386 
or COMM 391Advertising/Public Relations Capstone 
or Advertising/Public Relations
Internship3COMM 406 
or COMM 479Environmental Advocacy 
or Digital Sustainability3ENVS 402Sustainable Systems - Social Science
Perspectives3 Hours9
Spring
COMM 386 
or COMM 391Advertising/Public Relations Capstone ( if
not already taken ) 
or Advertising/Public Relations
Internship3COMM 406 
or COMM 479Environmental Advocacy 
or Digital Sustainability3

--- Page 935 ---
966  Advertising & Public Relations/Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)ENVS 401Sustainable Systems - Natural Science
Perspectives3 Hours9
Fifth Year
Fall
ENVS 480 Introduction to Geographic Information
Systems3ENVS 481Advanced GIS Applications3MS Major Elective3 Hours9
Spring
ENVS 482 Remote Sensing 3MS Major Elective3MS Major Elective3 Hours9 Total Hours70
With MS Sustainability and Assessment Planning Track
Course Title Hours
First Year
FallCOMM 175Introduction to Communication3 Hours3
Spring
COMM 210 Principles of Public Relations 3COMM 211Principles of Advertising3 Hours6
Second Year
FallCOMM 200 
or COMM 215Digital Communication and Society 
or Ethics & Communication3 Hours3
SpringCOMM 200 
or COMM 215Digital Communication and Society ( if not
already taken ) 
or Ethics & Communication3
COMM 213 Digital Foundations 3MARK 201Principles of Marketing3 Hours9
Third Year
FallCOMM 100SOC Career Prep Seminar1
BA Major Focus Course 3BA Major Focus Course3 Hours7
SpringBA Major Focus Course3Research Course3 Hours6Fourth Year
Fall
COMM 386 
or COMM 391Advertising/Public Relations Capstone 
or Advertising/Public Relations
Internship3COMM 406 
or COMM 479Environmental Advocacy 
or Digital Sustainability3ENVS 402Sustainable Systems - Social Science
Perspectives3 Hours9
Spring
COMM 386 
or COMM 391Advertising/Public Relations Capstone ( if
not already taken ) 
or Advertising/Public Relations
Internship3COMM 406 
or COMM 479Environmental Advocacy 
or Digital Sustainability3ENVS 401Sustainable Systems - Natural Science
Perspectives3 Hours9
Fifth Year
Fall
ENVS 451 Introduction to Sustainability Concepts &
Impacts3ENVS 452Sustainability Assessment & Reporting I3MS Major Elective3 Hours9
Spring
ENVS 453 Sustainability Assessment & Reporting II 3ENVS 454Sustainability Plan Development &
Reporting3MS Major Elective3 Hours9 Total Hours70
With MS Sustainable Business Track 
Course Title Hours
First Year
FallCOMM 175Introduction to Communication3 Hours3
Spring
COMM 210 Principles of Public Relations 3COMM 211Principles of Advertising3 Hours6
Second Year
FallCOMM 200 
or COMM 215Digital Communication and Society 
or Ethics & Communication3 Hours3
SpringCOMM 200 
or COMM 215Digital Communication and Society ( if not
already taken ) 
or Ethics & Communication3

--- Page 936 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 967
COMM 213 Digital Foundations 3MARK 201Principles of Marketing3 Hours9
Third Year
FallCOMM 100SOC Career Prep Seminar1
BA Major Focus Course 3BA Major Focus Course3 Hours7
SpringBA Major Focus Course3Research Course3 Hours6
Fourth Year
Fall
COMM 386 
or COMM 391Advertising/Public Relations Capstone 
or Advertising/Public Relations
Internship3COMM 406 
or COMM 479Environmental Advocacy 
or Digital Sustainability3ENVS 402Sustainable Systems - Social Science
Perspectives3 Hours9
Spring
COMM 386 
or COMM 391Advertising/Public Relations Capstone ( if
not already taken ) 
or Advertising/Public Relations
Internship3COMM 406 
or COMM 479Environmental Advocacy 
or Digital Sustainability3ENVS 401Sustainable Systems - Natural Science
Perspectives3 Hours9
Fifth Year
Fall
ENVS 433 Introduction to the Circular Economy 3ENVS 435Ecological Economics3MS Major Elective3 Hours9
Spring
ENVS 436 Design for Circular & Sustainable Business 3ENVS 463Sustainable Business Management3MS Major Elective3 Hours9 Total Hours70
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  •Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.

--- Page 937 ---
968  Advertising & Public Relations/Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•Create and implement strategic communication campaigns that
integrate advertising, public relations and integrated marketing
communication, and are responsive to community needs and
organizational goals in local and global contexts.
•Understand the implications and applications of integrated strategies
for digital media in marketing, advertising and public relations
practices.
•Apply appropriate research methods to plan, monitor and evaluate
public relations, advertising and other communication campaigns and
activities.
•Practice ethical communication in professional practices that are
socially responsible and in the mutual interests of the organization
and the community.
•Articulate the foundational principles of natural and social sciences
and humanities essential to solving environmental problems.
•Critically evaluate the accuracy and credibility of information relating
to environmental topics.
•Employ knowledge and skills to design and implement solutions that
contribute to a just and sustainable world.
•Exemplify the values of environmental and social justice through
actions to care for our common home and one another.

--- Page 938 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 969
SES Shared Learning Outcomes
All SES majors share the following Program Learning Objectives, in
addition to their unique major-speciﬁc Program Learning Objectives:
1. Articulate the foundational principles of natural and social sciences
and humanities essential to solving environmental problems.
2. Critically evaluate the accuracy and credibility of information relating to
environmental topics.
3. Employ knowledge and skills to design and implement solutions that
contribute to a just and sustainable world.
4. Exemplify the values of environmental and social justice through
actions to care for our common home and one another.
Advertising & Public Relations/Global
Strategic Communication (BA/MS)
The School of Communication’s ﬁve-year BA/MS program is for students
who are focused on a communication career on the global stage.
The program combines two degrees, the BA in Advertising and Public
Relations (Ad/PR) and the MS in Global Strategic Communication (GSC).
This is a professionally focused, interdisciplinary, non-thesis program.
Students will gain an understanding of strategic communication
processes, learning about public relations, advertising and digital
marketing. They will learn how to navigate the globalized world by
creating strategic campaigns and culturally relevant messages to engage
a diverse range of stakeholders. A study abroad class in global media
centers provides applied learning.
Related Programs
Major
•Advertising Public Relations (BA)  (p. 814)
Combined
•Advertising Public Relations/Environmental Science and
Sustainability (BA/MS)  (p. 963)
•Advertising Public Relations/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 972)
Curriculum
To be eligible to complete the BA/MS Program, students must have and
maintain a minimum cumulative 3.0 GPA.
Code Title Hours
School of Communication Foundation CoursesCOMM 100SOC Career Prep Seminar1
COMM 175 Introduction to Communication 3COMM 200Digital Communication and Society3
COMM 215 Ethics & Communication 3Required CoursesCOMM 210 Principles of Public Relations 3COMM 211Principles of Advertising3
COMM 213 Digital Foundations 3MARK 201Principles of Marketing3
Research CourseSelect one of the following:3COMM 363 Research Methods in Advertising/Public RelationsISSCM 241Business StatisticsSTAT 103 Fundamentals of StatisticsSpecialized FocusSelect one of the following focus areas: 9Advertising FocusCOMM 214 Introduction to Creative Concepts 1COMM 317Media PlanningSelect one of the following:COMM 331Social Media AdvertisingCOMM 334 Mobile AdvertisingCOMM 336Search & Display AdvertisingPublic Relations FocusCOMM 314Public Relations CasesCOMM 318 Public Relations Writing 1Select one of the following:COMM 313 Corporate and Organizational CommunicationCOMM 320Public Service Communication 2COMM 375 Media RelationsIntegrated FocusSelect one of the following Advertising coursesCOMM 317Media PlanningCOMM 331 Social Media AdvertisingCOMM 334Mobile AdvertisingCOMM 336 Search & Display AdvertisingSelect one of the following Public Relations coursesCOMM 313 Corporate and Organizational CommunicationCOMM 314Public Relations CasesCOMM 320 Public Service Communication 2COMM 375Media RelationsSelect one of the following Writing Intensives coursesCOMM 214Introduction to Creative Concepts 1COMM 318 Public Relations Writing 1Internship & 300-level electiveCOMM 391 Advertising/Public Relations Internship 2,43ADPR/GSC 300-Level Course from Major Electives  (p. 970)3
Graduate Courses Taken as UndergraduateCOMM 401Foundations of Global Strategic Communication3
COMM 403 Strategic Communication Research Methods 3COMM 411Strategic Communication Ethics and Law3
COMM 413 Writing for Strategic Communication 3Choose one (1) GSC 400-Level Course from Major Electives  (p. 970)3
Choose two (2) GSC 400-level Courses from Major Electives
(p. 970)6Courses Taken During Graduate YearCOMM 402 Organizational Leadership and Change
Management3COMM 421Topics in Global Strategic Communication3
COMM 431 Campaign for Social Impact 3COMM 441Global Strategic Communication Capstone3

--- Page 939 ---
970  Advertising & Public Relations/Global Strategic Communication (BA/MS)Choose two (2) GSC 400-level Courses from Major Electives
(p. 970)6Total Hours79
1Writing Intensive  (p. 800).
2Satisﬁes  Engaged Learning  (p. 1417 ) requirement.
3May be repeated if topic differs.
4May be repeated once for MS elective.
List of Approved Electives
Code Title Hours
COMM 311 /
COMM 461Health Communication 3COMM 312Special Events Planning3
COMM 317 /
COMM 417Media Planning 3COMM 329 /
COMM 429Advertising and Public Relations Design3
COMM 330 /
COMM 463Intermediate Advertising Design 3COMM 331 /
COMM 444Social Media Advertising3
COMM 334 /
COMM 464Mobile Advertising 3COMM 337 /
COMM 437AD/PR Multimedia Commercial Production 23
COMM 370 /
COMM 470Special Topics in Advertising & Public Relations 3,43COMM 391 /
COMM 491Advertising/Public Relations Internship 2,43
COMM 4163,43COMM 421Topics in Global Strategic Communication 33
COMM 422 Global and Multicultural Audiences and
Stakeholders3COMM 425Digital Marketing and Analytics3
COMM 430 2D Design for Print and the Web 3COMM 432Public Interest Communication3
COMM 433 Corporate Communication 3COMM 436Social Media Crisis Communication3
COMM 498 Directed Study for Graduate Students 1-3
1Writing Intensive  (p. 800).
2Satisﬁes  Engaged Learning  (p. 1417 ) requirement.
3May be repeated if topic differs.
4May be repeated once for MS elective.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.Course Title Hours
Year One
FallCOMM 175Introduction to Communication3 Hours3
Spring
COMM 210 Principles of Public Relations 3COMM 211Principles of Advertising3 Hours6
Year Two
FallCOMM 200Digital Communication and Society3 Hours3
SpringCOMM 213Digital Foundations3MARK 201Principles of Marketing3 Hours6
Year Three
Fall
COMM 100 SOC Career Prep Seminar 1Major Track Course3
Major Track Course 3COMM 300/400-Level Elective3 Hours10
SpringMajor Track Course3Research Course3 Hours6
Year Four
Fall
COMM 391 Advertising/Public Relations Internship 3COMM 401Foundations of Global Strategic
Communication3COMM 413Writing for Strategic Communication3 Hours9
Spring
COMM 215 Ethics & Communication 3COMM 403Strategic Communication Research
Methods3
COMM 411 Strategic Communication Ethics and Law 3COMM 300/400 Level Elective3 Hours12
Year Five
FallCOMM 402Organizational Leadership and Change
Management3
COMM 431 Campaign for Social Impact 3COMM 400-Level Elective3 Hours9
SpringCOMM 421Topics in Global Strategic Communication 13
COMM 441 Global Strategic Communication Capstone 3

--- Page 940 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 971COMM 400-Level Elective3 Hours9 Total Hours73
1Could also be taken in Summer; can be repeated as elective credit in a
different location.
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as agraduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.

--- Page 941 ---
972  Advertising & Public Relations/International Affairs (BA/MA)
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•Create and implement strategic communication campaigns that
combine advertising, public relations and integrated marketing
communication, and are responsive to community needs and
organizational goals in local and global contexts.
•Write copy and design messages to reach diverse publics and for
distribution through multiple channels, including both traditional and
digital media.
•Understand the implications and applications of integrated strategies
for digital media in marketing, advertising and public relations
practices.•Apply appropriate research methods to plan, monitor and evaluate
public relations, advertising and other communication campaigns and
activities.
•Practice ethical communication in professional practices that are
socially responsible and in the mutual interests of the organization
and the community.
•Demonstrate the competencies to work as an entry-level professional
in advertising or public relations.
Advertising & Public Relations/
International Affairs (BA/MA)
The growing interconnectedness of the world’s almost 200 countries,
termed globalization, and the rising impacts of foreign affairs on our
daily lives increasingly require individuals with advanced knowledge of
International Affairs. The Accelerated BA/MA in Advertising & Public
Relations and International Affairs allows students to explore global
problems and interactions from an interdisciplinary perspective that
makes use of eight Arts and Sciences academic departments and
four additional colleges. Students will have the flexibility to tailor their
program to ﬁt their individual interests. Students can fulﬁll a capstone
experience by participating in an internship, taking a study abroad class,
writing a paper for publication, or writing a master’s thesis.
Loyola University Chicago and the City of Chicago together serve as the
ideal location for an MA in International Affairs: Loyola embodies a long
commitment to interdisciplinary education; and Chicago is consistently
ranked as one of the top ten global cities in the world. The program offers
a unique urban setting for students interested in the advanced study of
International Affairs.
The majority of full-time students are expected to ﬁnish the program
in 5 years, as opposed to the six years if both programs are pursued
separately. Undergraduate students from participating programs at
Loyola will be able to pursue an accelerated BA/MA in Advertising &
Public Relations and International Affairs.
Students will also be able to take graduate courses in the School of
Communication, the School of Education (International Education), the
School of Law, Parkinson School of Health Sciences and Public Health,
Quinlan School of Business, and the School of Social Work.
Related Programs
Major
•Advertising Public Relations (BA)  (p. 814)
Combined
•Advertising Public Relations/Environmental Science and
Sustainability (BA/MS)  (p. 963)
•Advertising Public Relations/Global Strategic Communication (BA/
MS) (p. 969)
Curriculum
For the BA, students will complete requirements for the Bachelor's
degree, and graduate level courses may be used as electives. For the MA,
students will take a total of ten classes (30 credit hours) to complete the
program: Four required core classes, including a capstone experience,
and an additional six elective classes, with no more than three offered by

--- Page 942 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 973
a single department in the College of Arts & Sciences or another School
at Loyola.
Code Title Hours
Advertising & Public Relations BA RequirementsSchool of Communication Foundation CoursesCOMM 100 SOC Career Prep Seminar 1COMM 175Introduction to Communication3
COMM 200 Digital Communication and Society 3COMM 215Ethics & Communication3
Required CoursesCOMM 210Principles of Public Relations3
COMM 211 Principles of Advertising 3COMM 213Digital Foundations3
MARK 201 Principles of Marketing 3Research CourseSelect one of the following: 3COMM 363Research Methods in Advertising/Public RelationsISSCM 241 Business StatisticsSTAT 103Fundamentals of StatisticsSpecialized FocusSelect one of the following focus areas:9
Advertising FocusCOMM 214Introduction to Creative Concepts 1COMM 317 Media PlanningSelect one of the following:COMM 331 Social Media AdvertisingCOMM 334Mobile AdvertisingCOMM 336 Search & Display AdvertisingPublic Relations FocusCOMM 314 Public Relations CasesCOMM 318Public Relations Writing 1Select one of the following:COMM 313Corporate and Organizational CommunicationCOMM 320 Public Service Communication 2COMM 375Media RelationsIntegrated FocusSelect one of the following Advertising courses:COMM 317 Media PlanningCOMM 331Social Media AdvertisingCOMM 334 Mobile AdvertisingCOMM 336Search & Display AdvertisingSelect one of the following Public Relations courses:COMM 313Corporate and Organizational CommunicationCOMM 314 Public Relations CasesCOMM 320Public Service Communication 2COMM 375 Media RelationsSelect one of the following Writing Intensive courses:COMM 214 Introduction to Creative Concepts 1COMM 318Public Relations Writing 1Internship & CapstoneCOMM 386Advertising/Public Relations Capstone3
COMM 391 Advertising/Public Relations Internship 23ElectivesMust choose one (1) COMM course from the list of Electives for AD/
PR. (p. 973)3Any elective from the list of Electives for AD/PR.  (p. 973)3
International Affairs MA RequirementsCoreINTA 420 Comparative Political Systems 3INTA 430Theories of International Politics3
INTA 475 Political Analysis I 3Capstone Experience3
Select one of the following:INTA 470Fieldwork in PLSC-InternshipPLSC 499 Directed ReadingsPLSC 605Master's StudyElectives  (p. 974) 318In addition to the four core classes, students will take an additional
six elective courses, with no more than three offered by a single
department in the College of Arts and Sciences or another School
at Loyola. The core INTA courses in Political Science do not count
toward this three-course total, and thus a student may take three
Political Science courses in addition to the three core (required)
courses.Total Hours76
1Writing Intensive  (p. 800)
2Satisﬁes  Engaged Learning  (p. 1417 ) requirement.
3Two Graduate-level International Affairs courses must be taken
Senior Year. These courses can count as major electives or general
electives. These two courses double-count for International Affairs MA
requirements.
List of Approved Ad/PR Electives
Code Title Hours
Advertising and Public Relations ElectivesCOMM 101Public Speaking & Critical Thinking3or COMM 103Business & Professional Speaking
COMM 205 Reporting Basics I: Writing and Interviewing 13COMM 212International Advertising 33
COMM 214 Introduction to Creative Concepts 13COMM 266Advertising Copywriting 13
COMM 268 Persuasion 3COMM 278International Public Relations (abroad)3
COMM 282 Media Law 3COMM 290Branding and Positioning3
COMM 296 Themes in Advertising/Public Relations 3COMM 311Health Communication3
COMM 312 Special Events Planning 3COMM 313Corporate and Organizational Communication3
COMM 314 Public Relations Cases 3COMM 317Media Planning3
COMM 318 Public Relations Writing 13COMM 320Public Service Communication 23
COMM 321 Advertising Campaigns 3COMM 329Advertising and Public Relations Design3

--- Page 943 ---
974  Advertising & Public Relations/International Affairs (BA/MA)
COMM 330 Intermediate Advertising Design 3COMM 331Social Media Advertising3
COMM 334 Mobile Advertising 3COMM 336Search & Display Advertising3
COMM 337 AD/PR Multimedia Commercial Production 23COMM 345Student Agency 43
COMM 370 Special Topics in Advertising & Public Relations 3COMM 375Media Relations3
COMM 398 Directed Study 1-3Interdisciplinary ElectivesFNAR 132 Visual Communication I 3FNAR 233Digital Media Design3
FNAR 383 Interactive Design 3MARK 310Consumer Behavior3
MARK 311 Marketing Research 3MARK 363International Marketing3
MARK 380 Digital Marketing 3
1Writing Intensive  (https://www.luc.edu/soc/undergrad/
soclanguagerequirement/#den103333 )
2Satisﬁes  Engaged Learning  (https://www.luc.edu/
engagedlearning/ ) requirement.
3At the  John Felice Rome Center  (https://www.luc.edu/rome/
index.shtml/ )
4Inigo  (https://www.inigocomm.com/ )
 
List of International Affairs MA Elective Courses
The participating programs that will contribute classes include: Global
Studies, History, Philosophy, Political Science, Psychology, Sociology,
and Theology, Criminal Justice & Criminology, as well as the Schools of
Communication, Education, Business, Law, Health Sciences and Public
Health, and Social Work.
Please note that the courses listed might not be offered every year and
new courses may be added to this list. Students should talk with the
Graduate Program Director if they want to take a course that is not on
the list of elective courses to see whether the course can serve as an
elective.
College of Arts and Sciences
Code Title Hours
Criminal Justice and Criminology DepartmentCJC 416International Criminal Justice3
Methods CoursesCJC 403Research Methods and Program Evaluation3
CJC 404 Applied Data Analysis and Interpretation 4History DepartmentHIST 441 Women's & Gender History: Europe 3HIST 459Environmental History3
HIST 464 Transnational Urban History 3Methods CoursesHIST 483 Oral History: Method and Practice 3Modern Languages and Literatures DepartmentLanguage Research Tool: Although there is no language requirement,
students interested in honing their foreign language skills will have
the option of taking a 400-level language course (i.e., a course
beyond 101, 102, 103, and 104), and having that course count as one
of the six elective courses. Current language possibilities offered at
Loyola include Chinese, French, German, Italian, and Spanish.MLL also offers graduate-level courses in Spanish as part of their
master’s degree in Spanish. These courses are as follows and would
be open only to interested students with advanced writing, speaking,
and reading skills in Spanish. These courses are as follows:SPAN 405 Critical Methods (pan-Hispanic world) 3SPAN 490Hispanic Culture & Civilization (Latin American
ﬁlm, with a focus on human rights)3
Philosophy DepartmentPHIL 459Philosophy of Law3
PHIL 463 Virtue Ethics (includes non-Western philosophy) 3PHIL TBDCritical Race Theory (originally taught as a “special
topics” course; is being turned into a permanent
course)PHIL 480 Social & Political Philosophy (focuses on global
development on a regular basis)3Methods CoursesPHIL 400 Philosophy Research Tools 3Political Science DepartmentPLSC 421 Democratic Political Systems 3PLSC 422Authoritarian Political Systems3
PLSC 431 Formulation US Foreign Policy 3PLSC 432Comparative Foreign Policy Analysis3
PLSC 433 International Organization 3PLSC 435International Political Economics3
PLSC 436 International Conflict 3Methods CoursesPLSC 401 Intro to Research Design & Method 3PLSC 476Political Analysis II3
Psychology DepartmentPSYC 460Social Psychological Theory3
PSYC 461 Attitude and Attitude Change 3PSYC 474Research in Group Dynamics3
PSYC 484 Prejudice and Intergroup Relations 3Methods CoursesPSYC 486 Methods of Program Evaluation 3Sociology DepartmentSOCL 418 Demography 3SOCL 423Social Movements3
SOCL 426 Sociology of Gender 3SOCL 441Sociology of Religion3
SOCL 447 Sociology of Culture 3SOCL 461Race & Ethnicity3
Methods CoursesSOCL 410Logic of Sociological Inquiry3
SOCL 412 Qualitative Methods in Social Research 3SOCL 414Statistical Methods Analysis I3
SOCL 415 Statistical Methods of Analysis II 3Theology Department

--- Page 944 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 975
THEO 459 Contemporary Theology 1-12THEO 460Seminar in History of Theology1-12
THEO 464 Religion & Politics in Christian History 3THEO 470Foundations Crititical Issues Theological Ethics1-12
THEO 480 Seminar in Christian Ethics 1-12
School of Education (International Education)
Code Title Hours
ELPS 405 Introduction to Educational Policy Analysis 3ELPS 448International Higher Education3
ELPS 455 Comparative Education 3ELPS 540Seminar in the History of Education3
ELPS 550 Seminar on Globalization and Education 3ELPS 555Seminar Comparative Education3
School of Communication
Code Title Hours
COMM 401 Foundations of Global Strategic Communication 3COMM 402Organizational Leadership and Change
Management3
COMM 422 Global and Multicultural Audiences and
Stakeholders3
School of Social Work
Code Title Hours
SOWK 502 Power, Oppression, Privilege, and Social Justice 3SOWK 654Global Social Work: Reflective Practice for Justice
and Peace3
SOWK 730 Immigration Dynamics and U.S. Social Policy 3SOWK 731Social Work Practice with Refugees and
Immigrants3
SOWK 732 Migration, Social Justice, and Human Rights 3SOWK 733North American Migration Dynamics, Challenges &
Opportunity1-3
School of Law 
Code Title Hours
LAW 176 International Trade Law 11-3LAW 371International Business Trans 11-3
LAW 372 International Law and Practice 3LAW 388Global Access to Medicine: A Patent Perspective3
LAW 459 Intro to English Legal Profession 1LAW 568European Union Law 11-3
1Explanatory note about 1, 2, 3, and variable credit hour courses from
the School of Law: “For the law courses showing a range of hours (e.g.,
1-3 credit hours), students have the option to choose the number of
credits for enrollment within the range. For students opting for the
higher credits (i.e., enrollment in 3 credit hours rather than 1 credit hour
would require additional assignments and/or an examination). If the
MA students in these courses need to be enrolled in 3 credit hours,
the following notation can be included with the course listing:  ‘MA
students must choose the 3 credit option for enrollment in this course’. ”
Please note that courses to be included in this MA program will require
students choosing the 3-credit option.School of Law - Classes Offered at the John Felice Rome Center
Code Title Hours
PLAW 101 Comparative and Ethical Lawyering for the Rule of
Law3PLAW 102History, Theory and Practice of Rule of Law for
Development3
PLAW 103 Theory and Practice of Assessments in Rule of
Law Advising2PLAW 104International Development Architecture3
PLAW 105 Sustainable Development Through International
Commerce and Investment2PLAW 106Design of Rule of Law Programs and Proposal
Preparation2
PLAW 107 Rule of Law in Conflict Prevention and
Peacebuilding2PLAW 108Legal Systems and Methods3
PLAW 250 Research and Writing on the Rule of Law 3PLAW 907Rule of Law Project Management, Monitoring &
Evaluation3
Parkinson School of Health Sciences and Public Health
Code Title Hours
MPBH 400 Determinants of Population Health 3MPBH 414Introduction to Global Health3
MPBH 417 Global Maternal & Child Health 3MPBH 422Population Health Planning & Management3
MPBH 424 Health Economics and Healthcare Financing 3MPBH 432Health Impact Assessment3
Quinlan School of Business
Code Title Hours
ECON 424 International Business Economics 3FINC 455International Financial Management3
HRER 422 Global HR Management 3HRER 502Global Employment Relations3
MARK 465 International Marketing 3MARK 461Research Methods in Marketing3
MGMT 446 International Business Ethics 3SCMG 486Global Logistics3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
First Year
FallCOMM 175Introduction to Communication3 Hours3
Spring
COMM 210 Principles of Public Relations 3COMM 211Principles of Advertising3 Hours6

--- Page 945 ---
976  Advertising & Public Relations/International Affairs (BA/MA)
Second Year
FallCOMM 200 
or COMM 215Digital Communication and Society 
or Ethics & Communication3 Hours3
SpringCOMM 200 
or COMM 215Digital Communication and Society ( if not
already taken ) 
or Ethics & Communication3
COMM 213 Digital Foundations 3MARK 201Principles of Marketing3 Hours9
Third Year
FallCOMM 100SOC Career Prep Seminar1
Major Track Course 3Major Track Course3Major Elective3 Hours10
Spring
Major Track Course 3Major Elective3Research Course3 Hours9
Fourth Year
Fall
COMM 386 
or COMM 391Advertising/Public Relations Capstone 
or Advertising/Public Relations
Internship3Two (2) International Affairs Course  16 Hours9
SpringCOMM 386 
or COMM 391Advertising/Public Relations Capstone ( if
not already taken ) 
or Advertising/Public Relations
Internship3Two (2) International Affairs Course  16 Hours9
Fifth Year
FallThree (3) International Affairs Courses  19 Hours9
SpringThree (3) International Affairs Courses  19 Hours9 Total Hours76
1Students are expected to take two graduate-level courses in each
semester of their senior year and a total of six graduate-level courses
in their ﬁfth year. There is no required course sequence, but we strongly
suggest that students ﬁrst take the required courses ( PLSC 420
Comparative Political Systems , PLSC 430 Theories of InternationalPolitics , and PLSC 475 Political Analysis I ) whenever they are offered
before taking elective courses.
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet

--- Page 946 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 977
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate recordas having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
Students will graduate from our program having achieved:
•a foundation for understanding and critiquing research related to
International Affairs, including methods training that leverages both
qualitative and quantitative data [International Affairs]
•knowledge of the principal theories of comparative politics and
international relations, as well as the key areas of research in these
two subﬁelds [International Affairs]
•an interdisciplinary understanding and appreciation of International
Affairs through coursework available within eight different
departments in the College of Arts and Sciences and four additional
Schools at Loyola [International Affairs]
•enhanced writing and critical thinking skills and dispositions through
class-based projects and a capstone experience [International Affairs]

--- Page 947 ---
978  Advertising & Public Relations/Marketing (BA/MSM)
•strengthened methods, research, or writing skills tailored to students
interests with advanced methods courses, language training, or the
writing of a master’s thesis. [International Affairs]
•Create and implement strategic communication campaigns that
integrate advertising, public relations and integrated marketing
communication, and are responsive to community needs and
organizational goals in local and global contexts. [Advertising &
Public Relations]
•Write copy and design messages to reach diverse publics and for
distribution through multiple channels, including both traditional and
digital media. [Advertising & Public Relations]
•Understand the implications and applications of integrated strategies
for digital media in marketing, advertising and public relations
practices. [Advertising & Public Relations]
•Apply appropriate research methods to plan, monitor and evaluate
public relations, advertising and other communication campaigns and
activities. [Advertising & Public Relations]
•Practice ethical communication in professional practices that are
socially responsible and in the mutual interests of the organization
and the community. [Advertising & Public Relations]
•Demonstrate the competencies to work as an entry-level professional
in advertising or public relations. [Advertising & Public Relations]
Advertising & Public Relations/
Marketing (BA/MSM)
The Advertising & Public Relations Bachelor of Arts/Master of Science
in Marketing is an accelerated program which allows Loyola students to
earn the two respective degrees in a slightly shorter period of time than
by completing each separately.
Related Programs
Major
•Advertising Public Relations (BA)  (p. 814)
Combined
•Advertising Public Relations/Global Strategic Communication (BA/
MS) (p. 969)
•Advertising Public Relations/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 972)
Curriculum
Students in the BA program must choose and declare a focus in
Advertising, Public Relations, or Integrated, which determines the speciﬁc
three courses they will take as part of their chosen focus.
Students generally take two MSM courses during their senior year of
undergraduate work. The MSM requires 12 courses and prerequisite
ISSCM 402N .
Code Title Hours
BA RequirementsSchool of Communication Foundation CoursesCOMM 100 SOC Career Prep Seminar 1COMM 175Introduction to Communication3
COMM 200 Digital Communication and Society 3COMM 215Ethics & Communication3
Required CoursesCOMM 210Principles of Public Relations3
COMM 211 Principles of Advertising 3COMM 213Digital Foundations3
MARK 201 Principles of Marketing 3Research CourseSelect one of the following: 3COMM 363Research Methods in Advertising/Public RelationsISSCM 241 Business StatisticsSTAT 103Fundamentals of StatisticsSpecialized FocusSelect one of the following focus areas:9
Advertising FocusCOMM 214Introduction to Creative Concepts 1COMM 317 Media PlanningSelect one of the following:COMM 331 Social Media AdvertisingCOMM 334Mobile AdvertisingCOMM 336 Search & Display AdvertisingPublic Relations FocusCOMM 314 Public Relations CasesCOMM 318Public Relations Writing 1Select one of the following:COMM 313Corporate and Organizational CommunicationCOMM 320 Public Service Communication 2COMM 375Media RelationsIntegrated FocusSelect one of the following Advertising coursesCOMM 317 Media PlanningCOMM 331Social Media AdvertisingCOMM 334 Mobile AdvertisingCOMM 336Search & Display AdvertisingSelect one of the following Public Relations coursesCOMM 313Corporate and Organizational CommunicationCOMM 314 Public Relations CasesCOMM 320Public Service Communication 2COMM 375 Media RelationsSelect one of the following Writing Intensive coursesCOMM 214 Introduction to Creative Concepts 1COMM 318Public Relations Writing 1Internship & CapstoneCOMM 386Advertising/Public Relations Capstone3
COMM 391 Advertising/Public Relations Internship 23ElectivesMust choose one (1) COMM course from the list of Electives for AD/
PR. (p. 979)3Any elective from the list of Electives for AD/PR.  (p. 979)3
MS Marketing RequirementsPrerequisiteISSCM 402N Quantitative Methods II - Statistics Primer 0Marketing CoreMARK 460 Marketing Management 3MARK 461Research Methods in Marketing3

--- Page 948 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 979
MARK 464 Integrated Marketing Communication 3MARK 465International Marketing3
MARK 467 Consumer Behavior 3MARK 468Digital Marketing3
Ethics RequirementETHC 441NBusiness Ethics3or MGMT 446International Business Ethics
Electives (5 total) 15Students choose one of the three tracks below.Digital Marketing Analytics Track (STEM designated)Students completing INFS 494, INFS 796 and 2 other digital
marketing electives are eligible for the Business Analytics
Certiﬁcate.INFS 492 Database Systems (Required)MARK 562Database Marketing Strategy (Required)INFS 494 Applied Data Mining and Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI)INFS 590Global Strategy and DataINFS 592 Data VisualizationINFS 796Data WarehousingISSCM 495 Forecasting Methods with Artiﬁcial Intelligence
(AI)MARK 661Customer AnalyticsIntegrated Marketing Communications TrackMARK 463Sales and Strategic LeadershipMARK 469 Independent Study-Marketing ManagementMARK 470NResearch, Insights and StorytellingMARK 561 Comparative Consumer BehaviorMARK 562Database Marketing StrategyMARK 564 Brand Equity and Marketing StrategyMARK 566Integrated Media PlanningMARK 567 Customer Relationship ManagementMARK 568Social Media & Content MarketingMARK 569 Special TopicsMARK 661Customer AnalyticsMARK 662 Marketing MetricsSCMG 482Lean Production Concepts and PracticesSupply Chain Track (STEM designated)SCMG 480Intro to Operations Management (Required)SCMG 481 Performance Improvement in Business ProcessesSCMG 482Lean Production Concepts and PracticesSCMG 483 Management of Service OperationsSCMG 486Global LogisticsSCMG 487 Purchasing ManagementSCMG 488Inventory ManagementSCMG 489 Supply Chain AnalyticsISSCM 484NProject ManagementISSCM 495Forecasting Methods with Artiﬁcial Intelligence
(AI)Total Hours82
1Writing Intensive  (p. 800)
2Satisﬁes  Engaged Learning  (p. 1417 ) requirement.List of Approved Electives for the BA
Code Title Hours
Advertising and Public Relations ElectivesCOMM 101Public Speaking & Critical Thinking3or COMM 103Business & Professional Speaking
COMM 205 Reporting Basics I: Writing and Interviewing 13COMM 212International Advertising 33
COMM 214 Introduction to Creative Concepts 13COMM 266Advertising Copywriting 13
COMM 268 Persuasion 3COMM 278International Public Relations (abroad)3
COMM 282 Media Law 3COMM 290Branding and Positioning3
COMM 296 Themes in Advertising/Public Relations 3COMM 311Health Communication3
COMM 312 Special Events Planning 3COMM 313Corporate and Organizational Communication3
COMM 314 Public Relations Cases 3COMM 317Media Planning3
COMM 318 Public Relations Writing 13COMM 320Public Service Communication 23
COMM 321 Advertising Campaigns 3COMM 329Advertising and Public Relations Design3
COMM 330 Intermediate Advertising Design 3COMM 331Social Media Advertising3
COMM 334 Mobile Advertising 3COMM 336Search & Display Advertising3
COMM 337 AD/PR Multimedia Commercial Production 23COMM 345Student Agency 43
COMM 370 Special Topics in Advertising & Public Relations 3COMM 375Media Relations3
COMM 398 Directed Study 1-3Interdisciplinary ElectivesFNAR 132 Visual Communication I 3FNAR 233Digital Media Design3
FNAR 383 Interactive Design 3MARK 310Consumer Behavior3
MARK 311 Marketing Research 3MARK 363International Marketing3
MARK 380 Digital Marketing 3
1Writing Intensive  (https://www.luc.edu/soc/undergrad/
soclanguagerequirement/#den103333 )
2Satisﬁes  Engaged Learning  (https://www.luc.edu/
engagedlearning/ ) requirement.
3At the  John Felice Rome Center  (https://www.luc.edu/rome/
index.shtml/ )
4Inigo  (https://www.inigocomm.com/ )
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the

--- Page 949 ---
980  Advertising & Public Relations/Marketing (BA/MSM)
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
First Year
FallCOMM 175Introduction to Communication3 Hours3
Spring
COMM 210 Principles of Public Relations 3COMM 211Principles of Advertising3 Hours6
Second Year
FallCOMM 200 
or COMM 215Digital Communication and Society 
or Ethics & Communication3 Hours3
SpringCOMM 200 
or COMM 215Digital Communication and Society ( if not
already taken ) 
or Ethics & Communication3
COMM 213 Digital Foundations 3MARK 201Principles of Marketing3 Hours9
Third Year
FallCOMM 100SOC Career Prep Seminar1
Major Track Course 3Major Track Course3Major Elective3 Hours10
Spring
Major Track Course 3Major Elective3Research Course3 Hours9
Fourth Year
Fall
COMM 386 
or COMM 391Advertising/Public Relations Capstone 
or Advertising/Public Relations
Internship3One Quinlan MSM Course3 Hours6
SpringCOMM 386 
or COMM 391Advertising/Public Relations Capstone ( if
not already taken ) 
or Advertising/Public Relations
Internship3One Quinlan MSM Course3 Hours6Fifth YearStudents complete the remaining MSM courses.30 Hours30 Total Hours82
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet

--- Page 950 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 981
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate recordas having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•Create and implement strategic communication campaigns that
integrate advertising, public relations and integrated marketing
communication, and are responsive to community needs and
organizational goals in local and global contexts. [Advertising &
Public Relations]
•Write copy and design messages to reach diverse publics and for
distribution through multiple channels, including both traditional and
digital media. [Advertising & Public Relations]
•Understand the implications and applications of integrated strategies
for digital media in marketing, advertising and public relations
practices. [Advertising & Public Relations]
•Apply appropriate research methods to plan, monitor and evaluate
public relations, advertising and other communication campaigns and
activities. [Advertising & Public Relations]

--- Page 951 ---
982  Advertising Creative/Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)
•Practice ethical communication in professional practices that are
socially responsible and in the mutual interests of the organization
and the community. [Advertising & Public Relations]
•Demonstrate the competencies to work as an entry-level professional
in advertising or public relations. [Advertising & Public Relations]
•Develop the creative and strategic skills you need to lead and
innovate in the diverse, digital, and dynamic ﬁeld of marketing
[Marketing]
•Learn marketing strategies that deliver brand growth and
a competitive advantage in a time of sweeping economic,
environmental, and social change [Marketing]
•Gain the technical business skills that are essential in today’s global
economy [Marketing]
•Learn to ask the questions that are important to humanity as
you harness the power of marketing to promote positive social
change [Marketing]
•You will also build a strong foundation in: Marketing
ﬁnance; Strategic planning; Brand leadership; Digital and
social content development; Leadership and ethics; Database
analytics; Sustainable business leadership; and Global campaign
development [Marketing]
Advertising Creative/Environmental
Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)
Loyola’s School of Communication, in partnership with the School of
Environmental Sustainability, offers a program that enables students
to earn an undergraduate and graduate degree in environmental
communication in ﬁve years.
The Accelerated Bachelor's to Master's program allows SOC students to
earn their undergraduate degree in their declared major, plus a master’s
degree in Environmental Science and Sustainability.
Similarly, SES students can earn their undergraduate degree in
their declared major, while also earning a master’s degree from the
SOC in either the Digital Media and Storytelling or Global Strategic
Communication graduate programs.
The two schools developed the Accelerated Bachelor's to
Master's program to train environmental scientists to be better
communicators, and communication professionals to better understand
environmental science.
These 4+1 programs are uniquely applied and strongly interdisciplinary.
They integrate basic science concepts, communication theory and
practice, and socio-cultural dimensions to cultivate the interdisciplinary
problem-solving and communication skills necessary for developing
sustainable solutions. The goals of these programs are to:
•Educate students across the sciences, social sciences and
humanities, providing knowledge and interdisciplinary perspectives
needed to effectively address complex environmental problems
through grounding in solid scientiﬁc understanding of ecosystem
operation.
•Develop skills in environmental and sustainability sciences including
GIS, sustainability tracking, and environmental communications
as well as important professional skills, such as interdisciplinary
thinking, systems thinking, research design, data collection, data
analysis, research ethics, technical writing, and communication.•Improve communication skills by teaching students how to tell
stories through enhanced speaking and presentation methods, better
writing, video production, recording podcasts, developing blogs and
social media.
•Prepare students for advancement in careers in the public and private
sectors, including in government agencies, consulting ﬁrms, media
organizations, businesses, and not-for-proﬁt organizations.
For more information, email:   LoyolaSOC@luc.edu
Related Programs
Major
•Advertising Creative (BA)  (p. 817)
Minor
•Advertising Minor  (p. 819)
Combined
•Advertising Creative/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 987)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
BA RequirementsSOC Foundation CoursesCOMM 100 SOC Career Prep Seminar 1COMM 175Introduction to Communication3
COMM 200 Digital Communication and Society 3COMM 215Ethics & Communication3
Required BA CoursesCOMM 210Principles of Public Relations3
COMM 211 Principles of Advertising 3COMM 213Digital Foundations3
MARK 201 Principles of Marketing 3Research Course3
Select one of the following:COMM 363Research Methods in Advertising/Public RelationsISSCM 241 Business StatisticsSTAT 103Fundamentals of StatisticsRequired Specialized FocusCOMM 214Introduction to Creative Concepts3
COMM 266 Advertising Copywriting 3COMM 290Branding and Positioning3
COMM 329 Advertising and Public Relations Design 3
or COMM 330 Intermediate Advertising DesignCOMM 344Portfolio I3
Internship & Capstone  1COMM 389Advertising Creative Capstone: Portfolio II3
COMM 391 Advertising/Public Relations Internship 3Electives  2COMM 406 Environmental Advocacy 3COMM 479Digital Sustainability3
MS RequirementsRequired MS Courses  26

--- Page 952 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 983
ENVS 401 Sustainable Systems - Natural Science
PerspectivesENVS 402Sustainable Systems - Social Science PerspectivesChoose One of Four Concentrations:  39-12Environmental Law & PolicyENVS 410 Introduction to Environmental Law & PolicyENVS 411Natural Resources and Land Use Law & PolicyENVS 412 Water Law & PolicyENVS 413Energy Law & PolicyGeographic Information SystemsENVS 480Introduction to Geographic Information SystemsENVS 481 Advanced GIS ApplicationsENVS 482Remote SensingSustainable Assessment and PlanningENVS 451Introduction to Sustainability Concepts & ImpactsENVS 452 Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IENVS 453Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IIENVS 454 Sustainability Plan Development & ReportingSustainable BusinessENVS 433 Introduction to the Circular EconomyENVS 435Ecological EconomicsENVS 436 Design for Circular & Sustainable BusinessENVS 463Sustainable Business ManagementNatural Science and Quantitative Sustainable Society and Business
Electives  (p. 983) 46-9Students will take at least two courses from the list of electivesTotal Hours76
1A student must be junior or senior standing with a minimum of 18
major credit hours completed before an internship.
2Courses to be taken as an undergrad in student's Senior year.
3Begin MS program full-time at the start with the concentration work.
4Students choosing the Geographical Information Systems track must
take an additional elective course to meet a total of 24 credit hours for
the MS.
MS Natural Science and Quantitative & Sustainable
Society and Business Electives
Code Title Hours
BIOL 470 Biostats & Exp Design Lec/Lab 4ENVS 420Conservation Biology3
ENVS 422 Invasive Species 3ENVS 425Sustainable Agriculture3
ENVS 426 Agroecosystems 3ENVS 427Food Systems Analysis3
ENVS 430 Restoration Ecology 3ENVS 438Climate Change and Human Health3
ENVS 469 Field Ornithology 3ENVS 484Conservation Economics3
ENVS 487 Principles of Ecotoxicology 3ENVS 4883
ENVS 489 Ecological Risk Assessment 3MPBH 401Environmental Health3MPBH 403 Introduction to Epidemiology 3MPBH 404Biostatistics for Health and Biological Science3
MPBH 409 Biostatistics I 3MPBH 412Intro to Statistical Computing for Public Health2
MPBH 421 Biostatistics II 3MPP 401Analytical Tools in Public Policy3
MPP 402 Cost Beneﬁt Analysis 3MPP 403Public Budget and Finance3
MPP 405 Statistical Methods & Analysis for Public Policy I 3MPP 406Statistical Methods & Analysis Public Policy II3
SOCL 414 Statistical Methods Analysis I 3SOCL 415Statistical Methods of Analysis II3
STAT 403 SAS Program & Applied Statistics 3STAT 407Statistical Design3
STAT 408 Applied Regression Analysis 3STAT 410Categorical Data Analysis3
STAT 411 Applied Survival Analysis 3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
With MS Law & Policy Track
Course Title Hours
First Year
FallCOMM 175Introduction to Communication3 Hours3
Spring
COMM 210 Principles of Public Relations 3COMM 211Principles of Advertising3 Hours6
Second Year
FallCOMM 200Digital Communication and Society3COMM 215Ethics & Communication3 Hours6
Spring
COMM 213 Digital Foundations 3COMM 214Introduction to Creative Concepts3MARK 201Principles of Marketing3 Hours9
Third Year
Fall
COMM 100 SOC Career Prep Seminar 1COMM 266Advertising Copywriting3COMM 290Branding and Positioning3 Hours7
Spring
COMM 329 
or COMM 330Advertising and Public Relations Design 
or Intermediate Advertising Design3

--- Page 953 ---
984  Advertising Creative/Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)COMM 391Advertising/Public Relations Internship3Research Course3 Hours9
Fourth Year
Fall
COMM 344 Portfolio I 3COMM 406 
or COMM 479Environmental Advocacy 
or Digital Sustainability3ENVS 402Sustainable Systems - Social Science
Perspectives3 Hours9
Spring
COMM 389 Advertising Creative Capstone: Portfolio II 3COMM 406 
or COMM 479Environmental Advocacy 
or Digital Sustainability3ENVS 401Sustainable Systems - Natural Science
Perspectives3 Hours9
Fifth Year
Fall
ENVS 410 Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy 3ENVS 411Natural Resources and Land Use Law &
Policy3MS Major Elective3 Hours9
Spring
ENVS 412 Water Law & Policy 3ENVS 413Energy Law & Policy3MS Major Elective3 Hours9 Total Hours76
With MS Geographic Information Systems Track
Course Title Hours
First Year
FallCOMM 175Introduction to Communication3 Hours3
Spring
COMM 210 Principles of Public Relations 3COMM 211Principles of Advertising3 Hours6
Second Year
FallCOMM 200Digital Communication and Society3COMM 215Ethics & Communication3 Hours6
Spring
COMM 213 Digital Foundations 3COMM 214Introduction to Creative Concepts3MARK 201Principles of Marketing3 Hours9Third Year
Fall
COMM 100 SOC Career Prep Seminar 1COMM 266Advertising Copywriting3COMM 290Branding and Positioning3 Hours7
Spring
COMM 329 
or COMM 330Advertising and Public Relations Design 
or Intermediate Advertising Design3COMM 391Advertising/Public Relations Internship3Research Course3 Hours9
Fourth Year
Fall
COMM 344 Portfolio I 3COMM 406 
or COMM 479Environmental Advocacy 
or Digital Sustainability3ENVS 402Sustainable Systems - Social Science
Perspectives3 Hours9
Spring
COMM 389 Advertising Creative Capstone: Portfolio II 3COMM 406 
or COMM 479Environmental Advocacy 
or Digital Sustainability3ENVS 401Sustainable Systems - Natural Science
Perspectives3 Hours9
Fifth Year
Fall
ENVS 480 Introduction to Geographic Information
Systems3ENVS 481Advanced GIS Applications3MS Major Elective3 Hours9
Spring
ENVS 482 Remote Sensing 3MS Major Elective3MS Major Elective3 Hours9 Total Hours76
With MS Sustainability Assessment & Planning
Course Title Hours
First Year
FallCOMM 175Introduction to Communication3 Hours3
Spring
COMM 210 Principles of Public Relations 3COMM 211Principles of Advertising3 Hours6

--- Page 954 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 985
Second Year
FallCOMM 200Digital Communication and Society3COMM 215Ethics & Communication3 Hours6
Spring
COMM 213 Digital Foundations 3COMM 214Introduction to Creative Concepts3MARK 201Principles of Marketing3 Hours9
Third Year
Fall
COMM 100 SOC Career Prep Seminar 1COMM 266Advertising Copywriting3COMM 290Branding and Positioning3 Hours7
Spring
COMM 329 
or COMM 330Advertising and Public Relations Design 
or Intermediate Advertising Design3COMM 391Advertising/Public Relations Internship3Research Course3 Hours9
Fourth Year
Fall
COMM 344 Portfolio I 3COMM 406 
or COMM 479Environmental Advocacy 
or Digital Sustainability3ENVS 402Sustainable Systems - Social Science
Perspectives3 Hours9
Spring
COMM 389 Advertising Creative Capstone: Portfolio II 3COMM 406 
or COMM 479Environmental Advocacy 
or Digital Sustainability3ENVS 401Sustainable Systems - Natural Science
Perspectives3 Hours9
Fifth Year
Fall
ENVS 451 Introduction to Sustainability Concepts &
Impacts3ENVS 452Sustainability Assessment & Reporting I3MS Major Elective3 Hours9
Spring
ENVS 453 Sustainability Assessment & Reporting II 3ENVS 454Sustainability Plan Development &
Reporting3MS Major Elective3 Hours9 Total Hours76With MS Sustainable Business Track 
Course Title Hours
First Year
FallCOMM 175Introduction to Communication3 Hours3
Spring
COMM 210 Principles of Public Relations 3COMM 211Principles of Advertising3 Hours6
Second Year
FallCOMM 200Digital Communication and Society3COMM 215Ethics & Communication3 Hours6
Spring
COMM 213 Digital Foundations 3COMM 214Introduction to Creative Concepts3MARK 201Principles of Marketing3 Hours9
Third Year
Fall
COMM 100 SOC Career Prep Seminar 1COMM 266Advertising Copywriting3COMM 290Branding and Positioning3 Hours7
Spring
COMM 329 
or COMM 330Advertising and Public Relations Design 
or Intermediate Advertising Design3COMM 391Advertising/Public Relations Internship3Research Course3 Hours9
Fourth Year
Fall
COMM 344 Portfolio I 3COMM 406 
or COMM 479Environmental Advocacy 
or Digital Sustainability3ENVS 402Sustainable Systems - Social Science
Perspectives3 Hours9
Spring
COMM 389 Advertising Creative Capstone: Portfolio II 3COMM 406 
or COMM 479Environmental Advocacy 
or Digital Sustainability3ENVS 401Sustainable Systems - Natural Science
Perspectives3 Hours9
Fifth Year
Fall
ENVS 433 Introduction to the Circular Economy 3ENVS 435Ecological Economics3MS Major Elective3 Hours9

--- Page 955 ---
986  Advertising Creative/Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)
Spring
ENVS 436 Design for Circular & Sustainable Business 3ENVS 463Sustainable Business Management3MS Major Elective3 Hours9 Total Hours76
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as agraduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.

--- Page 956 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 987
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•Gain knowledge for how creative strategies bring insights into focus
to meet challenges and solve problems.
•Understand the creative process employed for developing big ideas
that can be used across multiple and changing communication
platforms.
•Demonstrate skills for writing copy and designing messages in
traditional and digital media.
•Apply ethical and inclusive decision making throughout the creation
of communications.
•Develop a professional portfolio of creative material.
•Articulate the foundational principles of natural and social sciences
and humanities essential to solving environmental problems.•Critically evaluate the accuracy and credibility of information relating
to environmental topics.
•Employ knowledge and skills to design and implement solutions that
contribute to a just and sustainable world.
•Exemplify the values of environmental and social justice through
actions to care for our common home and one another.
SES Shared Learning Outcomes
All SES majors share the following Program Learning Objectives, in
addition to their unique major-speciﬁc Program Learning Objectives:
1. Articulate the foundational principles of natural and social sciences
and humanities essential to solving environmental problems.
2. Critically evaluate the accuracy and credibility of information relating to
environmental topics.
3. Employ knowledge and skills to design and implement solutions that
contribute to a just and sustainable world.
4. Exemplify the values of environmental and social justice through
actions to care for our common home and one another.
Advertising Creative/International
Affairs (BA/MA)
The growing interconnectedness of the world’s almost 200 countries,
termed globalization, and the rising impacts of foreign affairs on our
daily lives increasingly require individuals with advanced knowledge of
International Affairs. The Accelerated BA/MA in Advertising Creative
and International Affairs allows students to explore global problems
and interactions from an interdisciplinary perspective that makes use
of eight Arts and Sciences academic departments and four additional
colleges. Students will have the flexibility to tailor their program to ﬁt
their individual interests. Students can fulﬁll a capstone experience by
participating in an internship, taking a study abroad class, writing a paper
for publication, or writing a master’s thesis.
Loyola University Chicago and the City of Chicago together serve as the
ideal location for an MA in International Affairs: Loyola embodies a long
commitment to interdisciplinary education; and Chicago is consistently
ranked as one of the top ten global cities in the world. The program offers
a unique urban setting for students interested in the advanced study of
International Affairs.
The majority of full-time students are expected to ﬁnish the program
in 5 years, as opposed to the six years if both programs are pursued
separately. Undergraduate students from participating programs at
Loyola will be able to pursue an accelerated BA/MA in Advertising
Creative and International Affairs.
Students will also be able to take graduate courses in the School of
Communication, the School of Education (International Education), the
School of Law, Parkinson School of Health Sciences and Public Health,
Quinlan School of Business, and the School of Social Work.
Related Programs
Major
•Advertising Creative (BA)  (p. 817)

--- Page 957 ---
988  Advertising Creative/International Affairs (BA/MA)
Combined
•Advertising Public Relations/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 972)
•Advertising Creative/Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/
MS) (p. 982)
Curriculum
For the BA, students will complete requirements for the Bachelor's
degree, and graduate level courses may be used as electives. For the MA,
students will take a total of ten classes (30 credit hours) to complete the
program: Four required core classes, including a capstone experience,
and an additional six elective classes, with no more than three offered by
a single department in the College of Arts & Sciences or another School
at Loyola.
Code Title Hours
Advertising Creative BA RequirementsSchool of Communication Foundation CoursesCOMM 100 SOC Career Prep Seminar 1COMM 175Introduction to Communication3
COMM 200 Digital Communication and Society 3COMM 215Ethics & Communication3
Required CoursesCOMM 210Principles of Public Relations3
COMM 211 Principles of Advertising 3COMM 213Digital Foundations3
MARK 201 Principles of Marketing 3Research CourseSelect one of the following: 3COMM 363Research Methods in Advertising/Public RelationsISSCM 241 Business StatisticsSTAT 103Fundamentals of StatisticsSpecialized FocusCOMM 214Introduction to Creative Concepts 13
COMM 266 Advertising Copywriting 13COMM 290Branding and Positioning3
COMM 329 Advertising and Public Relations Design 3
or COMM 330 Intermediate Advertising DesignCOMM 344Portfolio I3
Internship & CapstoneCOMM 389Advertising Creative Capstone: Portfolio II3
COMM 391 Advertising/Public Relations Internship 23ElectivesMust be a COMM course from the list of Approved Electives.
(p. 988)3Any course from the list of Approved Electives.  (p. 988)3
Required MA CoursesCoreINTA 420 Comparative Political Systems 3INTA 430Theories of International Politics3
INTA 475 Political Analysis I 3Capstone Experience3
Select one of the following:INTA 470Fieldwork in PLSC-InternshipPLSC 499 Directed ReadingsPLSC 605Master's StudyElectives  (p. 989) 318In addition to the four core classes, students will take an additional
six elective courses, with no more than three offered by a single
department in the College of Arts and Sciences or another School
at Loyola. The core INTA courses in Political Science do not count
toward this three-course total, and thus a student may take three
Political Science courses in addition to the three core (required)
courses.Total Hours82
1Writing Intensive  (p. 800)
2Satisﬁes  Engaged Learning  (p. 1417 ) requirement.
3Two Graduate-level International Affairs courses must be taken Senior Year.
These courses can count as major electives or general electives. These two
courses double-count for International Affairs MA requirements.
List of Approved BA Electives
Code Title Hours
Advertising Creative ElectivesCOMM 101Public Speaking & Critical Thinking3or COMM 103Business & Professional Speaking
COMM 135 Intro to Video Production 3COMM 205Reporting Basics I: Writing and Interviewing 13
COMM 212 International Advertising 33COMM 268Persuasion3
COMM 278 International Public Relations (abroad) 3COMM 282Media Law3
COMM 296 Themes in Advertising/Public Relations 3COMM 311Health Communication3
COMM 312 Special Events Planning 3COMM 313Corporate and Organizational Communication3
COMM 314 Public Relations Cases 3COMM 317Media Planning3
COMM 318 Public Relations Writing 13COMM 320Public Service Communication 23
COMM 321 Advertising Campaigns 3COMM 329Advertising and Public Relations Design 53
COMM 330 Intermediate Advertising Design 53COMM 331Social Media Advertising3
COMM 334 Mobile Advertising 3COMM 336Search & Display Advertising3
COMM 337 AD/PR Multimedia Commercial Production 23COMM 345Student Agency 43
COMM 370 Special Topics in Advertising & Public Relations 3COMM 375Media Relations3
COMM 398 Directed Study 1-3Interdisciplinary ElectivesFNAR 132 Visual Communication I 3FNAR 233Digital Media Design3
FNAR 383 Interactive Design 3MARK 310Consumer Behavior3
MARK 311 Marketing Research 3

--- Page 958 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 989MARK 363International Marketing3
MARK 380 Digital Marketing 3
1Writing Intensive  (p. 800)
2Satisﬁes  Engaged Learning  (p. 1417 ) requirement.
3At the  John Felice Rome Center  (https://www.luc.edu/rome/
index.shtml/ )
4Inigo  (https://www.inigocomm.com/ )
5Can be taken as an elective if not taken for Specialized Focus.
List of International Affairs MA Elective Courses
The participating programs that will contribute classes include: Global
Studies, History, Philosophy, Political Science, Psychology, Sociology,
and Theology, Criminal Justice & Criminology, as well as the Schools of
Communication, Education, Business, Law, Health Sciences and Public
Health, and Social Work.
Please note that the courses listed might not be offered every year and
new courses may be added to this list. Students should talk with the
Graduate Program Director if they want to take a course that is not on
the list of elective courses to see whether the course can serve as an
elective.
College of Arts and Sciences
Code Title Hours
Criminal Justice and Criminology DepartmentCJC 416International Criminal Justice3
Methods CoursesCJC 403Research Methods and Program Evaluation3
CJC 404 Applied Data Analysis and Interpretation 4History DepartmentHIST 441 Women's & Gender History: Europe 3HIST 459Environmental History3
HIST 464 Transnational Urban History 3Methods CoursesHIST 483 Oral History: Method and Practice 3Modern Languages and Literatures DepartmentLanguage Research Tool: Although there is no language requirement,
students interested in honing their foreign language skills will have
the option of taking a 400-level language course (i.e., a course
beyond 101, 102, 103, and 104), and having that course count as one
of the six elective courses. Current language possibilities offered at
Loyola include Chinese, French, German, Italian, and Spanish.MLL also offers graduate-level courses in Spanish as part of their
master’s degree in Spanish. These courses are as follows and would
be open only to interested students with advanced writing, speaking,
and reading skills in Spanish. These courses are as follows:SPAN 405 Critical Methods (pan-Hispanic world) 3SPAN 490Hispanic Culture & Civilization (Latin American
ﬁlm, with a focus on human rights)3
Philosophy DepartmentPHIL 459Philosophy of Law3
PHIL 463 Virtue Ethics (includes non-Western philosophy) 3PHIL TBDCritical Race Theory (originally taught as a “special
topics” course; is being turned into a permanent
course)PHIL 480 Social & Political Philosophy (focuses on global
development on a regular basis)3Methods CoursesPHIL 400 Philosophy Research Tools 3Political Science DepartmentPLSC 421 Democratic Political Systems 3PLSC 422Authoritarian Political Systems3
PLSC 431 Formulation US Foreign Policy 3PLSC 432Comparative Foreign Policy Analysis3
PLSC 433 International Organization 3PLSC 435International Political Economics3
PLSC 436 International Conflict 3Methods CoursesPLSC 401 Intro to Research Design & Method 3PLSC 476Political Analysis II3
Psychology DepartmentPSYC 460Social Psychological Theory3
PSYC 461 Attitude and Attitude Change 3PSYC 474Research in Group Dynamics3
PSYC 484 Prejudice and Intergroup Relations 3Methods CoursesPSYC 486 Methods of Program Evaluation 3Sociology DepartmentSOCL 418 Demography 3SOCL 423Social Movements3
SOCL 426 Sociology of Gender 3SOCL 441Sociology of Religion3
SOCL 447 Sociology of Culture 3SOCL 461Race & Ethnicity3
Methods CoursesSOCL 410Logic of Sociological Inquiry3
SOCL 412 Qualitative Methods in Social Research 3SOCL 414Statistical Methods Analysis I3
SOCL 415 Statistical Methods of Analysis II 3Theology DepartmentTHEO 459 Contemporary Theology 1-12THEO 460Seminar in History of Theology1-12
THEO 464 Religion & Politics in Christian History 3THEO 470Foundations Crititical Issues Theological Ethics1-12
THEO 480 Seminar in Christian Ethics 1-12
School of Education (International Education)
Code Title Hours
ELPS 405 Introduction to Educational Policy Analysis 3ELPS 448International Higher Education3
ELPS 455 Comparative Education 3ELPS 540Seminar in the History of Education3
ELPS 550 Seminar on Globalization and Education 3ELPS 555Seminar Comparative Education3

--- Page 959 ---
990  Advertising Creative/International Affairs (BA/MA)
School of Communication
Code Title Hours
COMM 401 Foundations of Global Strategic Communication 3COMM 402Organizational Leadership and Change
Management3
COMM 422 Global and Multicultural Audiences and
Stakeholders3
School of Social Work
Code Title Hours
SOWK 502 Power, Oppression, Privilege, and Social Justice 3SOWK 654Global Social Work: Reflective Practice for Justice
and Peace3
SOWK 730 Immigration Dynamics and U.S. Social Policy 3SOWK 731Social Work Practice with Refugees and
Immigrants3
SOWK 732 Migration, Social Justice, and Human Rights 3SOWK 733North American Migration Dynamics, Challenges &
Opportunity1-3
School of Law 
Code Title Hours
LAW 371 International Business Trans 11-3LAW 388Global Access to Medicine: A Patent Perspective3
LAW 459 Intro to English Legal Profession 1LAW 176International Trade Law 11-3
LAW 372 International Law and Practice 3LAW 568European Union Law 11-3
1Explanatory note about 1, 2, 3, and variable credit hour courses from
the School of Law: “For the law courses showing a range of hours (e.g.,
1-3 credit hours), students have the option to choose the number of
credits for enrollment within the range. For students opting for the
higher credits (i.e., enrollment in 3 credit hours rather than 1 credit hour
would require additional assignments and/or an examination). If the
MA students in these courses need to be enrolled in 3 credit hours,
the following notation can be included with the course listing:  ‘MA
students must choose the 3 credit option for enrollment in this course’. ”
Please note that courses to be included in this MA program will require
students choosing the 3-credit option.
School of Law - Classes Offered at the John Felice Rome Center
Code Title Hours
PLAW 101 Comparative and Ethical Lawyering for the Rule of
Law3PLAW 102History, Theory and Practice of Rule of Law for
Development3
PLAW 103 Theory and Practice of Assessments in Rule of
Law Advising2PLAW 104International Development Architecture3
PLAW 105 Sustainable Development Through International
Commerce and Investment2PLAW 106Design of Rule of Law Programs and Proposal
Preparation2
PLAW 107 Rule of Law in Conflict Prevention and
Peacebuilding2PLAW 108Legal Systems and Methods3PLAW 250 Research and Writing on the Rule of Law 3PLAW 907Rule of Law Project Management, Monitoring &
Evaluation3
Parkinson School of Health Sciences and Public Health
Code Title Hours
MPBH 400 Determinants of Population Health 3MPBH 414Introduction to Global Health3
MPBH 417 Global Maternal and Child Health 3MPBH 422Population Health Planning & Management3
MPBH 424 Health Economics and Healthcare Financing 3MPBH 432Health Impact Assessment3
Quinlan School of Business
Code Title Hours
ECON 424 International Business Economics 3FINC 455International Financial Management3
HRER 422 Global HR Management 3HRER 502Global Employment Relations3
MARK 465 International Marketing 3MARK 461Research Methods in Marketing3
MGMT 446 International Business Ethics 3SCMG 486Global Logistics3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
First Year
FallCOMM 175Introduction to Communication3 Hours3
Spring
COMM 210 Principles of Public Relations 3COMM 211Principles of Advertising3 Hours6
Second Year
FallCOMM 200Digital Communication and Society3COMM 215Ethics & Communication3 Hours6
Spring
COMM 213 Digital Foundations 3COMM 214Introduction to Creative Concepts3MARK 201Principles of Marketing3 Hours9
Third Year
Fall
COMM 100 SOC Career Prep Seminar 1COMM 266Advertising Copywriting3
COMM 290 Branding and Positioning 3

--- Page 960 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 991Major Elective3 Hours10
SpringCOMM 329 
or COMM 330Advertising and Public Relations Design 
or Intermediate Advertising Design3
COMM 391 Advertising/Public Relations Internship 3Research Course3 Hours9
Fourth Year
FallCOMM 344Portfolio I3
Major Elective 3Two (2) International Affairs Courses  16 Hours12
SpringCOMM 389Advertising Creative Capstone: Portfolio II3Two (2) International Affairs Courses  16 Hours9
Fifth Year
FallThree (3) International Affairs Courses  19 Hours9
SpringThree (3) International Affairs Courses  19 Hours9 Total Hours82
1Students are expected to take two graduate-level courses in each
semester of their senior year and a total of six graduate-level courses
in their ﬁfth year. There is no required course sequence, but we strongly
suggest that students ﬁrst take the required courses ( PLSC 420
Comparative Political Systems , PLSC 430 Theories of International
Politics , and PLSC 475 Political Analysis I ) whenever they are offered
before taking elective courses.
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the

--- Page 961 ---
992  Advocacy and Social Change/Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
Students will graduate from our program having achieved:
•a foundation for understanding and critiquing research related to
International Affairs, including methods training that leverages both
qualitative and quantitative data [International Affairs]
•knowledge of the principal theories of comparative politics and
international relations, as well as the key areas of research in these
two subﬁelds [International Affairs]
•an interdisciplinary understanding and appreciation of International
Affairs through coursework available within eight different
departments in the College of Arts and Sciences and four additional
Schools at Loyola [International Affairs]
•enhanced writing and critical thinking skills and dispositions through
class-based projects and a capstone experience [International Affairs]
•strengthened methods, research, or writing skills tailored to students
interests with advanced methods courses, language training, or the
writing of a master’s thesis. [International Affairs]
•Gain knowledge for how creative strategies bring insights into
focus to meet challenges and solve problems for industry and
organizations. [Advertising Creative]
•Understand the creative process employed for developing big ideas
that can be used across multiple and changing communication
platforms. [Advertising Creative]
•Demonstrate skills for writing copy and designing messages in
traditional and digital media. [Advertising Creative]
•Enhance skills for creating content that is relevant and delivers
strategy. [Advertising Creative]
•Apply ethical and inclusive decision making throughout the creation
of communications. [Advertising Creative]
•Develop a professional portfolio of creative material. [Advertising
Creative]
Advocacy and Social Change/
Environmental Science and
Sustainability (BA/MS)
Loyola’s School of Communication, in partnership with the School of
Environmental Sustainability, offers a program that enables students

--- Page 962 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 993
to earn an undergraduate and graduate degree in environmental
communication in ﬁve years.
The Accelerated Bachelor's to Master's program allows SOC students to
earn their undergraduate degree in their declared major, plus a master’s
degree in Environmental Science and Sustainability.
Similarly, SES students can earn their undergraduate degree in
their declared major, while also earning a master’s degree from the
SOC in either the Digital Media and Storytelling or Global Strategic
Communication graduate programs.
The two schools developed the Accelerated Bachelor's to
Master's program to train environmental scientists to be better
communicators, and communication professionals to better understand
environmental science.
These 4+1 programs are uniquely applied and strongly interdisciplinary.
They integrate basic science concepts, communication theory and
practice, and socio-cultural dimensions to cultivate the interdisciplinary
problem-solving and communication skills necessary for developing
sustainable solutions. The goals of these programs are to:
•Educate students across the sciences, social sciences and
humanities, providing knowledge and interdisciplinary perspectives
needed to effectively address complex environmental problems
through grounding in solid scientiﬁc understanding of ecosystem
operation.
•Develop skills in environmental and sustainability sciences including
GIS, sustainability tracking, and environmental communications
as well as important professional skills, such as interdisciplinary
thinking, systems thinking, research design, data collection, data
analysis, research ethics, technical writing, and communication.
•Improve communication skills by teaching students how to tell
stories through enhanced speaking and presentation methods, better
writing, video production, recording podcasts, developing blogs and
social media.
•Prepare students for advancement in careers in the public and private
sectors, including in government agencies, consulting ﬁrms, media
organizations, businesses, and not-for-proﬁt organizations.
For more information, email:   LoyolaSOC@luc.edu
Related Programs
Major
•Advocacy and Social Change (BA)  (p. 820)
Minor
•Advocacy and Social Change Minor  (p. 822)
Combined
•Advocacy and Social Change/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 998)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
BA RequirementsSOC Foundation CoursesCOMM 100 SOC Career Prep Seminar 1COMM 175Introduction to Communication3
COMM 200 Digital Communication and Society 3COMM 215Ethics & Communication3
Oral AdvocacyCOMM 236Persuasive Presentations3
Theory/Critical Analysis 6Select one of the following:COMM 220 Introduction to RhetoricCOMM 268PersuasionSelect one of the following:COMM 220Introduction to RhetoricCOMM 227 Social Justice & CommunicationCOMM 268PersuasionCOMM 272 Intercultural CommunicationCOMM 277Organizational CommunicationApplied CoursesCOMM 230Argumentation & Advocacy3
Select one of the following: 3COMM 231Conflict Management and CommunicationCOMM 237 Small Group CommunicationCOMM 406Environmental AdvocacyResearch Methods 3Select one of the following:COMM 361 New Media CriticismCOMM 365Naturalistic Methods Communication ResearchCOMM 367 Rhetorical CriticismCOMM 368Ethnographic Research Methods in
CommunicationElectives 12Select any four electives from the list of Approved Electives if not
taken to satisfy requirements above.MS RequirementsRequired MS Courses  16
ENVS 401 Sustainable Systems - Natural Science
PerspectivesENVS 402Sustainable Systems - Social Science PerspectivesChoose One of Four Concentrations:  29-12Environmental Law & PolicyENVS 410 Introduction to Environmental Law & PolicyENVS 411Natural Resources and Land Use Law & PolicyENVS 412 Water Law & PolicyENVS 413Energy Law & PolicyGeographic Information SystemsENVS 480Introduction to Geographic Information SystemsENVS 481 Advanced GIS ApplicationsENVS 482Remote SensingSustainable Assessment and PlanningENVS 451Introduction to Sustainability Concepts & ImpactsENVS 452 Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IENVS 453Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IIENVS 454 Sustainability Plan Development & ReportingSustainable BusinessENVS 433 Introduction to the Circular EconomyENVS 435Ecological EconomicsENVS 436 Design for Circular & Sustainable Business

--- Page 963 ---
994  Advocacy and Social Change/Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)ENVS 463Sustainable Business ManagementEnvironmental Science & Quantitative Methods Electives  36-9Students will take at least two courses from the list of electivesTotal Hours64
1ENVS 401 Sustainable Systems - Natural Science Perspectives  and
ENVS 402 Sustainable Systems - Social Science Perspectives  to be
taken as an undergrad.
2Begin MS program full-time at the start with the concentration work.
3Students choosing the Geographical Information Systems track must
take an additional elective course to meet a total of 24 credit hours for
the MS.
BA Approved Electives
Individual courses cannot be applied to multiple major requirement areas.
Code Title Hours
COMM 406 Environmental Advocacy (if not taken as Applied) 3COMM 479Digital Sustainability3
COMM 281 Communication, Language & Gender 3COMM 297Themes in Communication Studies3
COMM 300 Persuasive Campaigns 3COMM 303Media, Politics, & Propaganda3
COMM 304 Rhetorics of Utopia & Revolution 3COMM 306Environmental Advocacy3
COMM 307 Communication & Social Movements 3COMM 309Designing Media for Social Change3
COMM 311 Health Communication 3COMM 368Ethnographic Research Methods in
Communication3
COMM 371 Special Topics Communication Studies 3COMM 381Communication Practicum1-3
COMM 393 Communication Studies Internship 3COMM 398Directed Study1-3
1Writing Intensive  (p. 800)
2Satisﬁes Engaged Learning  (p. 1417 ) requirement.
3Internship  (https://www.luc.edu/soc/resources/internships/ )
MS Environmental Science & Quantitative Methods
Electives
Code Title Hours
BIOL 470 Biostats & Exp Design Lec/Lab 4ENVS 420Conservation Biology3
ENVS 422 Invasive Species 3ENVS 425Sustainable Agriculture3
ENVS 426 Agroecosystems 3ENVS 427Food Systems Analysis3
ENVS 430 Restoration Ecology 3ENVS 438Climate Change and Human Health3
ENVS 469 Field Ornithology 3ENVS 484Conservation Economics3
ENVS 487 Principles of Ecotoxicology 3ENVS 4883ENVS 489 Ecological Risk Assessment 3MPBH 401Environmental Health3
MPBH 403 Introduction to Epidemiology 3MPBH 404Biostatistics for Health and Biological Science3
MPBH 409 Biostatistics I 3MPBH 412Intro to Statistical Computing for Public Health2
MPBH 421 Biostatistics II 3MPP 401Analytical Tools in Public Policy3
MPP 402 Cost Beneﬁt Analysis 3MPP 403Public Budget and Finance3
MPP 405 Statistical Methods & Analysis for Public Policy I 3MPP 406Statistical Methods & Analysis Public Policy II3
SOCL 414 Statistical Methods Analysis I 3SOCL 415Statistical Methods of Analysis II3
STAT 403 SAS Program & Applied Statistics 3STAT 407Statistical Design3
STAT 408 Applied Regression Analysis 3STAT 410Categorical Data Analysis3
STAT 411 Applied Survival Analysis 3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
With MS Law & Policy Track
Course Title Hours
First Year
FallCOMM 175Introduction to Communication3 Hours3
SpringCOMM 200Digital Communication and Society3 Hours3
Second Year
Fall
COMM 215 
or COMM 360Ethics & Communication 
or Digital Media Ethics3COMM 220 
or COMM 268Introduction to Rhetoric 
or Persuasion3 Hours6
SpringBA Major Elective3 Hours3
Third Year
FallCOMM 100SOC Career Prep Seminar1
COMM 230 Argumentation & Advocacy 3Theory Course3 Hours7
SpringApplied Course3

--- Page 964 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 995BA Major Elective3 Hours6
Fourth Year
Fall
BA Major Elective 3Applied Course3
Theory Course 3ENVS 402Sustainable Systems - Social Science
Perspectives3 Hours12
SpringResearch Methods3ENVS 401Sustainable Systems - Natural Science
Perspectives3 Hours6
Fifth Year
Fall
ENVS 410 Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy 3ENVS 411Natural Resources and Land Use Law &
Policy3MS Major Elective3 Hours9
Spring
ENVS 412 Water Law & Policy 3ENVS 413Energy Law & Policy3MS Major Elective3 Hours9 Total Hours64
With MS Geographical Information Systems Track
Course Title Hours
First Year
FallCOMM 175Introduction to Communication3 Hours3
SpringCOMM 200Digital Communication and Society3 Hours3
Second Year
Fall
COMM 215 
or COMM 360Ethics & Communication 
or Digital Media Ethics3COMM 220 
or COMM 268Introduction to Rhetoric 
or Persuasion3 Hours6
SpringBA Major Elective3 Hours3
Third Year
FallCOMM 100SOC Career Prep Seminar1
COMM 230 Argumentation & Advocacy 3Theory Course3 Hours7
SpringApplied Course3BA Major Elective3 Hours6
Fourth Year
Fall
BA Major Elective 3Applied Course3
Theory Course 3ENVS 402Sustainable Systems - Social Science
Perspectives3 Hours12
SpringResearch Methods3ENVS 401Sustainable Systems - Natural Science
Perspectives3 Hours6
Fifth Year
Fall
ENVS 480 Introduction to Geographic Information
Systems3ENVS 481Advanced GIS Applications3MS Major Elective3 Hours9
Spring
ENVS 482 Remote Sensing 3MS Major Elective3MS Major Elective3 Hours9 Total Hours64
With MS Sustainable Assessment and Planning Track
Course Title Hours
First Year
FallCOMM 175Introduction to Communication3 Hours3
SpringCOMM 200Digital Communication and Society3 Hours3
Second Year
Fall
COMM 215 
or COMM 360Ethics & Communication 
or Digital Media Ethics3COMM 220 
or COMM 268Introduction to Rhetoric 
or Persuasion3 Hours6
SpringBA Major Elective3 Hours3

--- Page 965 ---
996  Advocacy and Social Change/Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)
Third Year
FallCOMM 100SOC Career Prep Seminar1
COMM 230 Argumentation & Advocacy 3Theory Course3 Hours7
SpringApplied Course3BA Major Elective3 Hours6
Fourth Year
Fall
BA Major Elective 3Applied Course3
Theory Course 3ENVS 402Sustainable Systems - Social Science
Perspectives3 Hours12
SpringResearch Methods3ENVS 401Sustainable Systems - Natural Science
Perspectives3 Hours6
Fifth Year
Fall
ENVS 451 Introduction to Sustainability Concepts &
Impacts3ENVS 452Sustainability Assessment & Reporting I3MS Major Elective3 Hours9
Spring
ENVS 453 Sustainability Assessment & Reporting II 3ENVS 454Sustainability Plan Development &
Reporting3MS Major Elective3 Hours9 Total Hours64
With MS Sustainable Business
Course Title Hours
First Year
FallCOMM 175Introduction to Communication3 Hours3
SpringCOMM 200Digital Communication and Society3 Hours3
Second Year
Fall
COMM 215 
or COMM 360Ethics & Communication 
or Digital Media Ethics3COMM 220 
or COMM 268Introduction to Rhetoric 
or Persuasion3 Hours6
SpringBA Major Elective3 Hours3
Third Year
FallCOMM 100SOC Career Prep Seminar1
COMM 230 Argumentation & Advocacy 3Theory Course3 Hours7
SpringApplied Course3BA Major Elective3 Hours6
Fourth Year
Fall
BA Major Elective 3Applied Course3
Theory Course 3ENVS 402Sustainable Systems - Social Science
Perspectives3 Hours12
SpringResearch Methods3ENVS 401Sustainable Systems - Natural Science
Perspectives3 Hours6
Fifth Year
Fall
ENVS 433 Introduction to the Circular Economy 3ENVS 435Ecological Economics3MS Major Elective3 Hours9
Spring
ENVS 436 Design for Circular & Sustainable Business 3ENVS 463Sustainable Business Management3MS Major Elective3 Hours9 Total Hours64
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.

--- Page 966 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 997
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the

--- Page 967 ---
998  Advocacy and Social Change/International Affairs (BA/MA)
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•Select and use various communication strategies (including
persuasion, argumentation, conflict management, negotiation and
mediation) leading to ethical social change.
•Create, deﬁne, analyze, and interpret messages.
•Serve the needs of diverse groups, communities and organizations
which strive for equity, inclusion and fairness.
•Articulate the foundational principles of natural and social sciences
and humanities essential to solving environmental problems.
•Critically evaluate the accuracy and credibility of information relating
to environmental topics.
•Employ knowledge and skills to design and implement solutions that
contribute to a just and sustainable world.
•Exemplify the values of environmental and social justice through
actions to care for our common home and one another.
SES Shared Learning Outcomes
All SES majors share the following Program Learning Objectives, in
addition to their unique major-speciﬁc Program Learning Objectives:
1. Articulate the foundational principles of natural and social sciences
and humanities essential to solving environmental problems.
2. Critically evaluate the accuracy and credibility of information relating to
environmental topics.
3. Employ knowledge and skills to design and implement solutions that
contribute to a just and sustainable world.
4. Exemplify the values of environmental and social justice through
actions to care for our common home and one another.Advocacy and Social Change/
International Affairs (BA/MA)
The growing interconnectedness of the world’s almost 200 countries,
termed globalization, and the rising impacts of foreign affairs on our
daily lives increasingly require individuals with advanced knowledge of
International Affairs. The Accelerated BA/MA in Advocacy and Social
Change and International Affairs allows students to explore global
problems and interactions from an interdisciplinary perspective that
makes use of eight Arts and Sciences academic departments and
four additional colleges. Students will have the flexibility to tailor their
program to ﬁt their individual interests. Students can fulﬁll a capstone
experience by participating in an internship, taking a study abroad class,
writing a paper for publication, or writing a master’s thesis.
Loyola University Chicago and the City of Chicago together serve as the
ideal location for an MA in International Affairs: Loyola embodies a long
commitment to interdisciplinary education; and Chicago is consistently
ranked as one of the top ten global cities in the world. The program offers
a unique urban setting for students interested in the advanced study of
International Affairs.
The majority of full-time students are expected to ﬁnish the program
in 5 years, as opposed to the six years if both programs are pursued
separately. Undergraduate students from participating programs at
Loyola will be able to pursue an accelerated BA/MA in Advocacy and
Social Change and International Affairs.
Students will also be able to take graduate courses in the School of
Communication, the School of Education (International Education), the
School of Law, Parkinson School of Health Sciences and Public Health,
Quinlan School of Business, and the School of Social Work.
Related Programs
Major
•Advocacy and Social Change (BA)  (p. 820)
Minor
•Advocacy and Social Change Minor  (p. 822)
Combined
•Advocacy and Social Change/Environmental Science and
Sustainability (BA/MS)  (p. 992)
Curriculum
For the BA, students will complete requirements for the Bachelor's
degree, and graduate level courses may be used as electives. For the MA,
students will take a total of ten classes (30 credit hours) to complete the
program: Four required core classes, including a capstone experience,
and an additional six elective classes, with no more than three offered by
a single department in the College of Arts & Sciences or another School
at Loyola.
Code Title Hours
BA RequirementsSchool of Communication Foundation CoursesCOMM 100 SOC Career Prep Seminar 1COMM 175Introduction to Communication3
COMM 200 Digital Communication and Society 3

--- Page 968 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 999COMM 215Ethics & Communication3or COMM 360Digital Media Ethics
Theory/Critical AnalysisCOMM 220Introduction to Rhetoric3or COMM 268Persuasion
Select two of the following: 6COMM 201Media Theory and CriticismCOMM 220 Introduction to RhetoricCOMM 227Social Justice & CommunicationCOMM 258 Game StudiesCOMM 268PersuasionCOMM 272 Intercultural CommunicationCOMM 277Organizational CommunicationCOMM 280 Media Technology & SocietyCOMM 379Digital SustainabilityAppliedCOMM 230Argumentation & Advocacy3
Select two of the following: 6COMM 231Conflict Management and CommunicationCOMM 236 Persuasive PresentationsCOMM 237Small Group CommunicationCOMM 306 Environmental AdvocacyCOMM 309Designing Media for Social ChangeCOMM 323 Remixing CultureResearch MethodsSelect one of the following:COMM 361New Media Criticism 1COMM 365 Naturalistic Methods Communication Research 2COMM 367Rhetorical Criticism 1COMM 368 Ethnographic Research Methods in
Communication 2ElectivesSelect any four (4) electives from the list of Approved Electives if not
taken to satisfy requirements above.  (p. 999)12International Affairs MA RequirementsCoreINTA 420Comparative Political Systems3
INTA 430 Theories of International Politics 3INTA 475Political Analysis I3
Capstone Experience 3Select one of the following:INTA 470 Fieldwork in PLSC-InternshipPLSC 499Directed ReadingsPLSC 605 Master's StudyElectives  (p. 999) 318In addition to the four core classes, students will take an additional
six elective courses, with no more than three offered by a single
department in the College of Arts and Sciences or another School
at Loyola. The core INTA courses in Political Science do not count
toward this three-course total, and thus a student may take three
Political Science courses in addition to the three core (required)
courses.Total Hours701Writing Intensive  (p. 800)
2Satisﬁes  Engaged Learning  (p. 1417 ) requirement.
3Two Graduate-level International Affairs courses must be taken
Senior Year. These courses can count as major electives or general
electives. These two courses double-count for International Affairs MA
requirements.
 
Approved BA Electives
Code Title Hours
COMM 101 Public Speaking & Critical Thinking 3COMM 201Media Theory and Criticism3
COMM 206 Hip Hop Culture and Social Change 3COMM 215Ethics & Communication3
COMM 220 Introduction to Rhetoric 3COMM 227Social Justice & Communication3
COMM 231 Conflict Management and Communication 3COMM 236Persuasive Presentations3
COMM 237 Small Group Communication 3COMM 258Game Studies3
COMM 268 Persuasion 3COMM 272Intercultural Communication3
COMM 277 Organizational Communication 3COMM 280Media Technology & Society3
COMM 281 Communication, Language & Gender 23COMM 297Themes in Communication Studies3
COMM 303 Media, Politics, & Propaganda 3COMM 304Rhetorics of Utopia & Revolution3
COMM 306 Environmental Advocacy 3COMM 307Communication & Social Movements3
COMM 309 Designing Media for Social Change 3COMM 311Health Communication3
COMM 323 Remixing Culture 3COMM 360Digital Media Ethics3
COMM 361 New Media Criticism 13COMM 365Naturalistic Methods Communication Research 23
COMM 367 Rhetorical Criticism 13COMM 368Ethnographic Research Methods in
Communication 23
COMM 371 Special Topics Communication Studies 3COMM 379Digital Sustainability3
COMM 381 Communication Practicum 1-3COMM 393Communication Studies Internship 2,33
COMM 398 Directed Study 1-3
1Writing Intensive  (p. 800)
2Satisﬁes  Engaged Learning  (p. 1417 ) requirement.
3Internship  (https://www.luc.edu/soc/resources/internships/ )
List of International Affairs MA Elective Courses
The participating programs that will contribute classes include: Global
Studies, History, Philosophy, Political Science, Psychology, Sociology,
and Theology, Criminal Justice & Criminology, as well as the Schools of

--- Page 969 ---
1000  Advocacy and Social Change/International Affairs (BA/MA)
Communication, Education, Business, Law, Health Sciences and Public
Health, and Social Work.
Please note that the courses listed might not be offered every year and
new courses may be added to this list. Students should talk with the
Graduate Program Director if they want to take a course that is not on
the list of elective courses to see whether the course can serve as an
elective.
College of Arts and Sciences
Code Title Hours
Criminal Justice and Criminology DepartmentCJC 416International Criminal Justice3
Methods CoursesCJC 403Research Methods and Program Evaluation3
CJC 404 Applied Data Analysis and Interpretation 4History DepartmentHIST 441 Women's & Gender History: Europe 3HIST 459Environmental History3
HIST 464 Transnational Urban History 3Methods CoursesHIST 483 Oral History: Method and Practice 3Modern Languages and Literatures DepartmentLanguage Research Tool: Although there is no language requirement,
students interested in honing their foreign language skills will have
the option of taking a 400-level language course (i.e., a course
beyond 101, 102, 103, and 104), and having that course count as one
of the six elective courses. Current language possibilities offered at
Loyola include Chinese, French, German, Italian, and Spanish.MLL also offers graduate-level courses in Spanish as part of their
master’s degree in Spanish. These courses are as follows and would
be open only to interested students with advanced writing, speaking,
and reading skills in Spanish. These courses are as follows:SPAN 405 Critical Methods (pan-Hispanic world) 3SPAN 490Hispanic Culture & Civilization (Latin American
ﬁlm, with a focus on human rights)3
Philosophy DepartmentPHIL 459Philosophy of Law3
PHIL 463 Virtue Ethics (includes non-Western philosophy) 3PHIL TBDCritical Race Theory (originally taught as a “special
topics” course; is being turned into a permanent
course)PHIL 480 Social & Political Philosophy (focuses on global
development on a regular basis)3Methods CoursesPHIL 400 Philosophy Research Tools 3Political Science DepartmentPLSC 421 Democratic Political Systems 3PLSC 422Authoritarian Political Systems3
PLSC 431 Formulation US Foreign Policy 3PLSC 432Comparative Foreign Policy Analysis3
PLSC 433 International Organization 3PLSC 435International Political Economics3
PLSC 436 International Conflict 3Methods CoursesPLSC 401 Intro to Research Design & Method 3PLSC 476Political Analysis II3
Psychology DepartmentPSYC 460Social Psychological Theory3
PSYC 461 Attitude and Attitude Change 3PSYC 474Research in Group Dynamics3
PSYC 484 Prejudice and Intergroup Relations 3Methods CoursesPSYC 486 Methods of Program Evaluation 3Sociology DepartmentSOCL 418 Demography 3SOCL 423Social Movements3
SOCL 426 Sociology of Gender 3SOCL 441Sociology of Religion3
SOCL 447 Sociology of Culture 3SOCL 461Race & Ethnicity3
Methods CoursesSOCL 410Logic of Sociological Inquiry3
SOCL 412 Qualitative Methods in Social Research 3SOCL 414Statistical Methods Analysis I3
SOCL 415 Statistical Methods of Analysis II 3Theology DepartmentTHEO 459 Contemporary Theology 1-12THEO 460Seminar in History of Theology1-12
THEO 464 Religion & Politics in Christian History 3THEO 470Foundations Crititical Issues Theological Ethics1-12
THEO 480 Seminar in Christian Ethics 1-12
School of Education (International Education)
Code Title Hours
ELPS 405 Introduction to Educational Policy Analysis 3ELPS 448International Higher Education3
ELPS 455 Comparative Education 3ELPS 540Seminar in the History of Education3
ELPS 550 Seminar on Globalization and Education 3ELPS 555Seminar Comparative Education3
School of Communication
Code Title Hours
COMM 401 Foundations of Global Strategic Communication 3COMM 402Organizational Leadership and Change
Management3
COMM 422 Global and Multicultural Audiences and
Stakeholders3
School of Social Work
Code Title Hours
SOWK 502 Power, Oppression, Privilege, and Social Justice 3SOWK 654Global Social Work: Reflective Practice for Justice
and Peace3
SOWK 730 Immigration Dynamics and U.S. Social Policy 3SOWK 731Social Work Practice with Refugees and
Immigrants3
SOWK 732 Migration, Social Justice, and Human Rights 3

--- Page 970 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1001SOWK 733North American Migration Dynamics, Challenges &
Opportunity1-3
School of Law 
Code Title Hours
LAW 176 International Trade Law 11-3LAW 371International Business Trans 11-3
LAW 372 International Law and Practice 3LAW 388Global Access to Medicine: A Patent Perspective3
LAW 459 Intro to English Legal Profession 1LAW 568European Union Law 11-3
1Explanatory note about 1, 2, 3, and variable credit hour courses from
the School of Law: “For the law courses showing a range of hours (e.g.,
1-3 credit hours), students have the option to choose the number of
credits for enrollment within the range. For students opting for the
higher credits (i.e., enrollment in 3 credit hours rather than 1 credit hour
would require additional assignments and/or an examination). If the
MA students in these courses need to be enrolled in 3 credit hours,
the following notation can be included with the course listing:  ‘MA
students must choose the 3 credit option for enrollment in this course’. ”
Please note that courses to be included in this MA program will require
students choosing the 3-credit option.
School of Law - Classes Offered at the John Felice Rome Center
Code Title Hours
PLAW 101 Comparative and Ethical Lawyering for the Rule of
Law3PLAW 102History, Theory and Practice of Rule of Law for
Development3
PLAW 103 Theory and Practice of Assessments in Rule of
Law Advising2PLAW 104International Development Architecture3
PLAW 105 Sustainable Development Through International
Commerce and Investment2PLAW 106Design of Rule of Law Programs and Proposal
Preparation2
PLAW 107 Rule of Law in Conflict Prevention and
Peacebuilding2PLAW 108Legal Systems and Methods3
PLAW 250 Research and Writing on the Rule of Law 3PLAW 907Rule of Law Project Management, Monitoring &
Evaluation3
Parkinson School of Health Sciences and Public Health
Code Title Hours
MPBH 400 Determinants of Population Health 3MPBH 414Introduction to Global Health3
MPBH 417 Global Maternal and Child Health 3MPBH 422Population Health Planning & Management3
MPBH 424 Health Economics and Healthcare Financing 3MPBH 432Health Impact Assessment3
 Quinlan School of Business
Code Title Hours
ECON 424 International Business Economics 3FINC 455International Financial Management3HRER 422 Global HR Management 3HRER 502Global Employment Relations3
MARK 465 International Marketing 3MARK 461Research Methods in Marketing3
MGMT 446 International Business Ethics 3SCMG 486Global Logistics3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
First Year
FallCOMM 175Introduction to Communication3 Hours3
SpringCOMM 200Digital Communication and Society3 Hours3
Second Year
Fall
COMM 215 
or COMM 360Ethics & Communication 
or Digital Media Ethics3COMM 220 
or COMM 268Introduction to Rhetoric 
or Persuasion3 Hours6
SpringMajor Elective3 Hours3
Third Year
FallCOMM 100SOC Career Prep Seminar1
COMM 230 Argumentation & Advocacy 3Theory Course3 Hours7
SpringApplied Course3Major Elective3 Hours6
Fourth Year
Fall
Major Elective 3Applied Course3
Theory Course 3Two (2) International Affairs Courses  16 Hours15
SpringResearch Methods3Two (2) International Affairs Courses  16 Hours9

--- Page 971 ---
1002  Advocacy and Social Change/International Affairs (BA/MA)
Fifth Year
FallThree (3) International Affairs Courses  19 Hours9
SpringThree (3) International Affairs Courses  19 Hours9 Total Hours70
1Students are expected to take two graduate-level courses in each
semester of their senior year and a total of six graduate-level courses
in their ﬁfth year. There is no required course sequence, but we strongly
suggest that students ﬁrst take the required courses ( PLSC 420
Comparative Political Systems , PLSC 430 Theories of International
Politics , and PLSC 475 Political Analysis I ) whenever they are offered
before taking elective courses.
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards

--- Page 972 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1003
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.Learning Outcomes
Students will graduate from our program having achieved:
•a foundation for understanding and critiquing research related to
International Affairs, including methods training that leverages both
qualitative and quantitative data [International Affairs]
•knowledge of the principal theories of comparative politics and
international relations, as well as the key areas of research in these
two subﬁelds [International Affairs]
•an interdisciplinary understanding and appreciation of International
Affairs through coursework available within eight different
departments in the College of Arts and Sciences and four additional
Schools at Loyola [International Affairs]
•enhanced writing and critical thinking skills and dispositions through
class-based projects and a capstone experience [International Affairs]
•strengthened methods, research, or writing skills tailored to students
interests with advanced methods courses, language training, or the
writing of a master’s thesis. [International Affairs]
•Select and use various communication strategies (including
persuasion, argumentation, conflict management, negotiation and
mediation) leading to ethical social change. [Advocacy and Social
Change]
•Create, deﬁne, analyze, and interpret messages. [Advocacy and Social
Change]
•Demonstrate effectiveness as rhetors, critics and decision
makers. [Advocacy and Social Change]
•Serve the needs of diverse groups, communities and organizations
which strive for equity, inclusion and fairness. [Advocacy and Social
Change]
Applied Psychology/Public Service
Leadership (BA/MA)
The BA Applied Psychology/ MA Public Service Leadership program
is an accelerated, online program that gives academically successful
Loyola SCPS BA Applied Psychology majors the opportunity to pursue
the MA degree in Public Service Leadership while completing their BA
degree. This program reduces the total number of courses needed and
the total time needed for the combined degrees. Current accelerated
bachelors/master’s degree programs at LUC allow qualiﬁed students to
take up to four graduate-level courses as undergraduates. This program
will allow students in the BA Applied Psychology program to take four of
the courses from the MA Public Service Leadership in their senior year.
These courses will be taken as elective courses and will count toward the
degree requirements for both programs.
Related Programs
Major
•Applied Psychology (BA)  (p. 858)
Master's
•Public Service Leadership (MA)  (p. 1935 )
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
BA RequirementsPSYC 101General Psychology3

--- Page 973 ---
1004  Applied Psychology/Public Service Leadership (BA/MA)
PSYC 304 Statistics 3PSYC 306Research Methods in Psychology3
PSYC 275 Social Psychology 3PSYC 362Industrial/Organizational Psychology3
PSYC 373 Health Psychology 3CPST 322Strategic Communication Tools for Applied Psych3
CPST 320 Program Evaluation 3TracksSelect one of the following tracks: 12Organizational TrackCPST 250 Foundations of OrganizationsCPST 350Human Resources Principles & PracticesCPST 380 Leadership, Culture and EthicsPSYC 388Laboratory in Neuroscience ICounseling TrackPSYC 273Developmental PsychologyCPSY 323 Theories of Counseling and PsychotherapyCPSY 324Career Counseling and DevelopmentCPSY 332 Multicultural CounselingSCPS CoursesCPST 200 Introduction to Degree Completion 3CPST 201Civic Identity and Development3
CPST 397 Capstone 3Core RequirementsThe number of hours remaining toward Core requirements can vary
due to transfer credit.  1Mission Speciﬁc RequirementsMission speciﬁc requirements can vary from 0 to 15 credit hours
based on your prior credit.General Elective RequirementsStudents may have some general elective coursework to complete
if their transfer credit and remaining required hours (Core, mission
speciﬁc, major, etc.) do not total 120.MA RequirementsPSLD 400 Introduction to Public Service 3PSLD 402Foundations of Global Strategic Communication3
PSLD 403 Program Management and Development 3PSLD 404Data, Visualization and Evaluation3
PSLD 405 Design Thinking in Mitigating Complex Social
Problems3PSLD 420Disaster Operations and Management3
PSLD 423 Integrated Social-Medical Issues in Emergency
Management3PSLD 430Understanding and Mitigating Poverty3
PSLD 431 Foundations of Social and Sustainable
Development3Elective CoursesPSLD 422 Disasters and Vulnerable Populations 3PSLD 432Gender Diversity & Sustainable Social
Development3PSLD 433Social Analysis Inequality Poverty and
Development3Total Hours691Core Requirements - Learn More  (p. 1405 )
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The School of Continuing and Professional Studies provides a high-touch
advising model in order to incorporate the professional and educational
outcomes of the student as well as any transfer credit accepted.  In
order to provide students with maximum flexibility in their education and
because everyone’s academic background will vary, advisors will work
directly with students to determine an appropriate sequence of courses
starting at admission into their respective program based on their needs
and expected time to completion.
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as

--- Page 974 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1005
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progressthrough the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•Apply scientiﬁc thinking to solve individual, interpersonal,
organizational and social problems in real world case studies and
organizational/community projects. [Applied Psychology]
•Analyze theories in human behavior, cognition, emotion, and
motivation in written assignments and oral presentations. [Applied
Psychology]

--- Page 975 ---
1006  Biochemistry (BS/MS)
•Use strategic communication and persuasion skills based in the
behavioral sciences in role plays and real-world applications. [Applied
Psychology]
•Interpret statistical and evaluation data to discern meaningful
patterns and assess the impact of interventions in course work and
organizational/community applications. [Applied Psychology]
•Recognize best practices including ethical and pragmatic constraints
of applied research with people in course work and organizational/
community projects. [Applied Psychology]
•Describe components and levels of leadership across public sectors.
[Public Service Leadership]
•Apply ethical reasoning to administrative design and decision-making
in the current realm of public service leadership. [Public Service
Leadership]
•Analyze how systems of power, privilege, and oppression (e.g.,
racism, sexism, heterosexism, ableism) operate to create and
maintain inequality as well as how resistance to these systems is
enacted. [Public Service Leadership]
•Describe the experiences of underrepresented, marginalized, or
oppressed communities within various contexts, including inequality
in outcomes and resistance to systems of oppression. [Public Service
Leadership]
•Collect and apply data in problem identiﬁcation and problem solving.
[Public Service Leadership]
•Differentiate between non-crisis leadership and leadership in
emergencies among public, social and economic sectors. [Public
Service Leadership]
•Apply fundamentals of communication appropriate to situation in
both local and global situations. [Public Service Leadership]
Biochemistry (BS/MS)
The BS/MS program in Biochemistry allows currently Loyola University
Chicago undergraduate students to obtain both a Bachelor’s and Master’s
degree in a compressed time period. This program structure is beneﬁcial
for those planning to take a gap year between undergraduate graduation,
medical school, dental school, or other higher education.  The research
experience and courses with faculty you know and love allow you to build
the references that will help you successfully transition to your next step.
Your coursework keeps your chemical intuition sharp when preparing for
admissions tests.
Students complete the bachelor's degree, but also take two graduate
courses as undergraduates their senior year that count toward both their
Bachelor’s and Master’s degree. By doing so, the 6 additional graduate
courses can be ﬁnished in a single year for this 4+1 program.
Related Programs
Combined
•Chemistry (BS/MS)  (p. 1053 )
Curriculum
Students complete the bachelor's degree, but also take two graduate
courses as undergraduates their senior year that count toward both their
Bachelor’s and Master’s degree. By doing so, the additional graduate
courses can be ﬁnished in a single year for this Accelerated Bachelor's/
Master's program.Chemistry is taking a modern, integrated approach to foundational
coursework.
•Aligns with the latest American Chemical Society (ACS) and American
Association of Medical Colleges (AAMC) standards & guidelines
•Themes: structure-activity relationships; culture and practice
of science; energy; polymers, proteins, and macromolecules;
sustainability; chemical synthesis, puriﬁcation, characterization, and
analysis.
•With such knowledge and skills, you should be prepared to further
excel in upper-level coursework that specializes your work in the
speciﬁc major you have chosen.
In addition to the required courses listed below,  CHEM 300 Undergraduate
Research  is strongly recommended. Credit hours earned in  CHEM 300
Undergraduate Research  or CHEM 380 Chemistry Seminar  do not count
as elective hours satisfying the BS degree requirement. Both  CHEM 300
Undergraduate Research  and  CHEM 380 Chemistry Seminar  are required
for Departmental honors. The CHEM-BS degree is accredited by the
American Chemical Society.
Code Title Hours
BS RequirementsChemistry Courses RequiredCHEM 160 Chemical Structure and Properties 3CHEM 161Chemical Structure and Properties Laboratory1
CHEM 180 Chemical Reactivity I 3CHEM 181Chemical Reactivity I Lab1
CHEM 240 Chemical Reactivity II 3CHEM 242Chemical Synthesis Laboratory2
CHEM 260 Quantitative Methods in Chemistry 3CHEM 272Analytical Chemistry Laboratory2
CHEM 305 Physical Biochemistry for the Biological Sciences 3CHEM 306Physical Biochemistry Lab1
CHEM 307 Inorganic Chemistry 3CHEM 370Biochemistry I3
CHEM 371 Biochemistry II 3CHEM 372Biochemistry Laboratory I2
CHEM 373 Biochemistry Laboratory II 2Biochemistry Focus ElectiveSelect one of the following: 3CHEM 365ProteomicsCHEM 385 Advanced Enzyme Kinetics and MechanismsCHEM 386The Chemistry of EnzymesCHEM 387 Plant BiochemistryCHEM 388Biophysical ChemistryBiochemistry ElectiveSelect one of the following:3
CHEM 323 Medicinal ChemistryCHEM 365ProteomicsCHEM 385 Advanced Enzyme Kinetics and MechanismsCHEM 387Plant BiochemistryCHEM 388 Biophysical ChemistryCHEM 396Special Topics in BiochemistryBIOL 380 Genetics and Evolution of DevelopmentBIOL 382Molecular Genetics

--- Page 976 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1007
BIOL 388 BioinformaticsBIOL 389Introduction to PharmacologyPhysics Courses RequiredPHYS 121College Physics I with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3
PHYS 122 College Physics II with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3PHYS 111LCollege Physics Laboratory I1
PHYS 112L College Physics Lab II 1Math Courses RequiredMATH 131 Applied Calculus I 3
or MATH 161 Calculus IMATH 132Applied Calculus II3or MATH 162Calculus II
STAT 203 Introduction to Probability & Statistics 3Biology Required CoursesBIOL 101 General Biology I 3BIOL 102General Biology II3
BIOL 111 General Biology I Lab 1BIOL 112General Biology II Lab1
BIOL 251 Cell Biology 3BIOL 282Genetics3
BIOL 283 Genetics Laboratory 1MS Requirements30
Course-Based MS in ChemistryCHEM 401Chemistry Methodology and CommunicationSelect four (4) from the followingCHEM 424Molecular Characterization Part ACHEM 435 Special Topics in Physical ChemistryCHEM 445Special Topics in Inorganic ChemistryCHEM 455 Special Topics in Analytical ChemistryCHEM 465Special Topics in BiochemistryCHEM 480 Chemistry for Teachers IChemistry Research (no more than 3 credit hours)400-Level CHEM Electives (15 credit hours)  1Thesis-Based MS in ChemistryCHEM 401 Chemistry Methodology and CommunicationSelect one of the following:CHEM 424 Molecular Characterization Part ACHEM 435Special Topics in Physical ChemistryCHEM 445 Special Topics in Inorganic ChemistryCHEM 455Special Topics in Analytical ChemistryCHEM 465 Special Topics in BiochemistryRequired 12 credit hours in one of the followingCHEM 429 Research in Organic ChemistryCHEM 439Research in Physical ChemistryCHEM 449 Research in Inorganic ChemistryCHEM 459Research in Analytical ChemistryCHEM 469 Research in BiochemistrySelect any four courses from any area of concentration: Organic,
Inorganic, Physical, Analytical, Education. (12 credit hours)
(p. 1007 )CHEM 605 Master's StudyCHEM 595Thesis SupervisionTotal Hours103
1Elective courses can be distributed or in a specialized area as
determined by student. A list of all 400 level Chemistry courses can be
found  here  (p. 1565 ).
•Core requirements  (p. 1405 )
•Please visit  http://www.luc.edu/cas/
academics_degreerequirements.shtml#college  (https://www.luc.edu/
cas/academics_degreerequirements.shtml/#college ) to view other
CAS requirements.
•For chemistry course descriptions and pre and co-requisite
information, please visit  here  (p. 317).
All chemistry majors are assigned a chemistry faculty advisor. Please
meet with your advisor on a regular basis, at least twice a year, for
assistance with your chemistry schedule, research possibilities, graduate
school information and more. If you do not know who your advisor is
please call the chemistry department at 773/508-3100 or come to the
department ofﬁce located in Flanner Hall room 125.
MS Areas of Specialization
Code Title Hours
AnalyticalCHEM 455Special Topics in Analytical Chemistry 13
BiochemistryCHEM 465Special Topics in Biochemistry 23
CHEM 470 Biochemistry I 3EducationCHEM 480 Chemistry for Teachers I 3InorganicCHEM 441 Advanced Inorganic Chemistry 3CHEM 445Special Topics in Inorganic Chemistry 33
OrganicCHEM 423Medicinal Chemistry3
CHEM 424 Molecular Characterization Part A 3CHEM 425Special Topics in Organic Chemistry 43
PhysicalCHEM 435Special Topics in Physical Chemistry 53
1Topics can include Archeometry and Adv Analytical Chemistry.
2Topics can include:  Plant Biochemistry; The Chemistry of Enzymes;
Biochemistry of Lipids; Adv Approaches in Biochemistry; Adv Enzyme
Kinetics and Mechanisms; Molecular Immunology; Biochemistry of
Renewable Energy; and Proteomics.
3Topics can include:  Medicinal Inorganic Chemistry; Electron & X-Ray
Methods; and Molecular Characterization Part B.
4Topics can include:  Orgo Structure Determination; Strategy & Tactics
of Org Chem; Func Dyes Biomed Imaging; Avd Orgo-Synthesis and
Mech; Comp Organomet Chem; and Advanced Organic Synthesis.
5Topics can include:  Exp Tech of Surface Science; Survey of Modern
Physical Chem; Surface Chem and Analysis; Thermodynam/Protein
Structures; and Computational Chemistry.

--- Page 977 ---
1008  Biochemistry (BS/MS)
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Students  not placing in  MATH 118 Precalculus II  or higher cannot start
the Chemistry sequence until  MATH 117 Precalculus I  is completed with
a grade of C- or better. Such students are advised to enroll in ﬁrst-year
Chemistry courses in the summer sessions (after meeting the math
requirement) in order to complete the major in four years.
Course Title Hours
Freshman
Fall
BIOL 101 
& BIOL 111General Biology I 
and General Biology I Lab4CHEM 160Chemical Structure and Properties3
CHEM 161 Chemical Structure and Properties
Laboratory1MATH 131 
or MATH 161Applied Calculus I 
or Calculus I3-4 Hours11-12
SpringBIOL 102 
& BIOL 112General Biology II 
and General Biology II Lab4
CHEM 180 Chemical Reactivity I 3CHEM 181Chemical Reactivity I Lab1MATH 132 
or MATH 162Applied Calculus II 
or Calculus II3-4 Hours11-12
Sophomore
Fall
BIOL 282 Genetics 3CHEM 240Chemical Reactivity II3
PHYS 121 College Physics I with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3PHYS 111LCollege Physics Laboratory I1STAT 203Introduction to Probability & Statistics3 Hours13
Spring
BIOL 251 Cell Biology 3BIOL 283Genetics Laboratory1
CHEM 242 Chemical Synthesis Laboratory 2CHEM 260Quantitative Methods in Chemistry3
PHYS 122 College Physics II with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3PHYS 112LCollege Physics Lab II1 Hours13
Junior
FallCHEM 272Analytical Chemistry Laboratory2
CHEM 305 Physical Biochemistry for the Biological
Sciences3CHEM 370Biochemistry I3 Hours8
SpringCHEM 306Physical Biochemistry Lab1
CHEM 307 Inorganic Chemistry 3CHEM 371Biochemistry II3 Hours7
Senior
FallCHEM 372Biochemistry Laboratory I2
Biochemistry Elective 3CHEM 400-Level Course3 Hours8
SpringCHEM 373Biochemistry Laboratory II2
Biochemistry Elective 3400-Level CHEM Course3 Hours8
Master'sComplete requirements of MS degree in consultation with
Graduate Program Director.24 Hours24 Total Hours103-105
1Capstone Course: CHEM 314 Instrumental Analysis  for Junior or Senior
year
CHEM 300 Undergraduate Research  and  CHEM 380 Chemistry
Seminar  are strongly recommended and required to receive Departmental
Honors with graduation. Credit hours earned in  CHEM 300 Undergraduate
Research  and/or  CHEM 380 Chemistry Seminar  do not count as elective
hours satisfying the CHEM-BS degree requirement.  CHEM 361 Principles
of Biochemistry  does not count towards the CHEM-BS degree.
Mathematics Preparedness for Chemistry
Students intending to register for a chemistry course will need
a background in mathematics that is commensurate with the
computational requirements of the chemistry course. Evidence of
math preparedness is obtained from results of the ACT/SAT and of
a Mathematics Placement Assessment (MPA) administered by the
College in conjunction with the Department of Mathematics and
Statistics. Students who are found to be mathematically under prepared
are required to pass the appropriate course or sequence of courses
in mathematics with a grade of "C-" or better before they register for a
chemistry course. More information regarding placement by ACT/SAT
and the MPA can be found at  http://www.luc.edu/math/placement/ .
Thesis Requirement
In addition to coursework, students in Thesis-based MS in Chemi stry
will write and defend a research thesis. Once students have completed
coursework and are solely working on the thesis they will be enrolled in
the appropriate study or supervision course to maintain good standing in
the university.

--- Page 978 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1009
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁciallymatriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while

--- Page 979 ---
1010  Bioinformatics (BS/MS)
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•answer knowledge and comprehension type questions related to
fundamental chemical concepts and demonstrate fluency with
basic facts, terminology, and principles in the various subﬁelds of
chemistry.
•understand and describe the chemical basis of life, our natural
resources and environments, and the universe.
•retrieve, research, synthesize, and critically evaluate scientiﬁc
literature.•design and implement experiments that test predictive hypotheses,
gather relevant data, analyze results, and interpret the signiﬁcance of
these results.
•operate state of the art equipment used by chemists and
biochemists.
•engage in scientiﬁc reasoning with claims based on supported
evidence and communicate effectively results and interpretations of
scientiﬁc research.
Bioinformatics (BS/MS)
Bioinformatics is a highly interdisciplinary STEM ﬁeld that integrates
computational and statistical methods for analyzing large biological data
sets. Bioinformaticians apply their biological and computational sciences
backgrounds to develop, utilize, and optimize new computational tools
to organize, synthesize, and analyze the rapidly increasing amount of
biological and biomedical data.
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs (ABM) provide signiﬁcant
cost savings to students interested in accelerating their path to an
advanced degree. An ABM  allows full-time students to complete both an
undergraduate and graduate degree within just ﬁve years, equating  to
a lower overall cost than completing both programs separately.  The
Bioinformatics ABM programs include coursework in Biology, Chemistry,
Computer Science, and Statistics as well as hands-on research
experience.  Students typically apply during the spring semester of their
Junior year (Applicants must be at least a Junior based on credit hours
and under 1 year from completing the BS degree).
Two ABM programs are available:
•For students majoring in Bioinformatics BS/MS (BIOI BS/
BIOI MS) [This page!]
•For students majoring in Biology BS - Bioinformatics MS
(BIOL BS/BIOI MS) [Please follow this link  (p. 1026 )!]
The one-year  MS component  is offered as one of two possible tracks:
1.Thesis track (research-based)  for students interested in
academic research and advanced degree programs, such
as a Ph.D . program.
2.Non-thesis track (internship-based)  for students who aim
to enter the workforce in an industrial setting, such as
Biotech and Pharma
Related Programs
Combined
•Biology/Bioinformatics (BS/MS)  (p. 1026 )
Curriculum
An ABM allows full-time students to complete an undergraduate and
graduate degree within ﬁve years. This is possible because students
take Graduate-level courses during their senior year, which earns them
Graduate-level credit. Graduate-level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied toward graduate program
requirements will be referred to as Shared Credits. Up to 15 Graduate-
level credit hours can be taken during senior year, and a minimum of 15
Graduate-level credit hours will be taken during the MS year.

--- Page 980 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1011
Code Title Hours
Biology Fundamental CoursesBIOL 101General Biology I3
BIOL 282 Genetics 3BIOL 283Genetics Laboratory1
Chemistry Fundamental CoursesCHEM 160Chemical Structure and Properties3
CHEM 180 Chemical Reactivity I 3CHEM 240Chemical Reactivity II3
CHEM 260 Quantitative Methods in Chemistry 3CHEM 361Principles of Biochemistry3
Computer Science Fundamental CoursesCOMP 141Introduction to Computing Tools and Techniques3
MATH 215 Object-Oriented Programming with Mathematics 13COMP 231Data Structures & Algorithms for Informatics3
Math/Stats Fundamental CoursesMATH 131Applied Calculus I3or MATH 161Calculus I
MATH 132 Applied Calculus II 3
or MATH 162 Calculus IISTAT 335Introduction to Biostatistics3
Bioinformatics Fundamental CoursesBIOL 388Bioinformatics3
BIOL 387 Genomics 3
or BIOL 392 MetagenomicsCOMP 483Computational Biology (BS+MS credit)4
STAT 437 Quantitative Bioinformatics (BS+MS credit) 3Bioinformatics ElectivesSelect two of the following: 6BIOL 390Molecular Biology LaboratoryBIOI 565 Exploring Proteins (BS+MS credit ; Fall only)
or CHEM 465 Special Topics in BiochemistryCOMP 353Database Programming 3or COMP 379Machine Learning
Bioinformatics Research (Select one)Select one of the following:1
BIOI 397 Bioinformatics SurveyBIOI 398Bioinformatics InternshipBIOI 399 Bioinformatics ResearchMS Bioinformatics Fundamental Courses (Both Tracks)BIOI 500 Advanced Bioinformatics (Fall only) 3BIOI 501Bioinformatics Seminar1
Thesis-Track speciﬁc courses 13UNIV 370Responsible Conduct in Research and ScholarshipBIOI 494 Bioinformatics Research DesignBIOI 499Bioinformatics ResearchBIOI 595 Thesis Supervision+ 2 MS Bioinformatics ElectiveNon-Thesis-Track speciﬁc courses 16BIOI 498Bioinformatics Internship+ 5 MS Bioinformatics ElectivesTotal Hours93
NOTE : Required courses within the major also satisfy the following
University Core Curriculum  (p. 1405 ) requirements: scientiﬁc literacy (6
credits) and quantitative analysis (3 credits)
1Maybe substituted with COMP 170 Introduction to Object-Oriented
Programming
2CHEM 465 Special Topics in Biochemistry  Proteomics (odd years,
Spring only)
3COMP 379 Machine Learning  (Fall only)
Designated Courses that may count for Shared Credit for
the BS and MS degrees:
Up to three of the listed courses may be taken at the graduate level
during senior year and count as Shared Credits  towards the BS and MS
degrees.
Code Title Hours
BIOL 495 Special Topics 3BIOL 495Special Topics3
BIOI 565 Exploring Proteins (Fall only) 3CHEM 465Special Topics in Biochemistry3
COMP 453 Database Programming 3COMP 479Machine Learning (Fall only)3
COMP 483 Computational Biology (Spring only) 4STAT 437Quantitative Bioinformatics3
1BIOL 495 Special Topics  (Metagenomics - Fall only, Genomics - Spring
only)
2CHEM 465 Special Topics in Biochemistry  (Proteomics - odd years,
Spring only)
List of MS Bioinformatics Electives
Code Title Hours
BiologyBIOL 402Microbiology3
BIOL 482 Advanced Molec Genetics 3BIOL 495Special Topics 13
ChemistryCHEM 425Special Topics in Organic Chemistry 23
CHEM 435 Special Topics in Physical Chemistry 33CHEM 455Special Topics in Analytical Chemistry 43
CHEM 465 Special Topics in Biochemistry 53Computer ScienceCOMP 406 Data Mining 3COMP 413Intermediate Object-Oriented Development3
COMP 439 Distributed Systems 3COMP 453Database Programming3
COMP 460 Algorithms & Complexity 3COMP 471Theory of Programming Languages3
COMP 479 Machine Learning 3COMP 486Computational Neuroscience3
Statistics

--- Page 981 ---
1012  Bioinformatics (BS/MS)STAT 407Statistical Design3
STAT 406 Stochastic Processes 3STAT 408Applied Regression Analysis3
STAT 410 Categorical Data Analysis 3STAT 436Topics in Biostatistics3
1BIOI 495 Special Topics in Bioinformatics  includes topics: Human
Genetics, Human Molecular Genetics,  Scientiﬁc Logic & Critical
thinking, Genomics - Spring only, & Metagenomics - Fall only
2CHEM 425 Special Topics in Organic Chemistry  (Medicinal Chemistry)
3CHEM 435 Special Topics in Physical Chemistry  (Computational
Biochemistry)
4CHEM 455 Special Topics in Analytical Chemistry  (Introduction to
Spectroscopy)
5CHEM 465 Special Topics in Biochemistry  includes topics: Enzymology,
Plant Biochemistry, & Protein Crystallography.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The sequence of courses below is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor(s) for assistance with course selection.
These sample course schedules exemplify how students may complete
their Bioinformatics major (B.S.), University Core Requirements, and M.S.
in Bioinformatics within ﬁve years of study. The ﬁrst is an example for
the Non-thesis track, and the second for the thesis track:
Suggested Sequence of Courses - Non-thesis Track
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
BIOL 101 General Biology I 3CHEM 160Chemical Structure and Properties3
MATH 131 Applied Calculus I 3CORE: College Writing Seminar3CORE: Theology and Religious Studies Tier 13 Hours15
Spring
CHEM 180 Chemical Reactivity I 3COMP 141Introduction to Computing Tools and
Techniques3
MATH 132 Applied Calculus II 3CORE: Ethics3CORE: Theology and Religious Studies Tier 23 Hours15
Year 2
Fall
BIOL 282 Genetics 3BIOL 283Genetics Laboratory1
CHEM 240 Chemical Reactivity II 3MATH 215Object-Oriented Programming with
Mathematics3
CORE: Historical Knowledge Tier 1 3CORE: Philosophical Knowledge Tier 13 Hours16
SpringCHEM 260Quantitative Methods in Chemistry3
COMP 231 Data Structures & Algorithms for
Informatics3CAS Elective3
CORE: Historical Knowledge Tier 2 3CORE: Philosophical Knowledge Tier 23 Hours15
Year 3
FallBIOL 388Bioinformatics 13
BIOL 392 
or BIOL 387Metagenomics 
or Genomics3CAS Elective3
CAS Language Requirement 1 3CORE: Literary Knowledge & Experience Tier 13 Hours15
SpringCHEM 361Principles of Biochemistry 13
STAT 335 Introduction to Biostatistics 13CAS Language Requirement 23
CORE: Literary Knowledge & Experience Tier 2 3CORE: Societal and Cultural Knowledge Tier 13Apply for B.S./M.S. Program  Hours15
Year 4
Fall
Select one of the following: 3-4BIOL 390Molecular Biology Laboratory 
BIOI 565 
or CHEM 465Exploring Proteins ( BS+MS credit; Fall only )
or Special Topics in Biochemistry COMP 353 
or COMP 379Database Programming 
or Machine Learning 
CAS Elective 3CORE: Societal and Cultural Knowledge Tier 23CORE: Artistic Knowledge and Experience3 Hours12-13
Spring
BIOI 501 Bioinformatics Seminar 51STAT 437Quantitative Bioinformatics ( BS+MS credit;
Fall only ) 33
COMP 483 Computational Biology ( BS+MS; Spring
only ) 34CAS Elective3
Select one of the following (Undergraduate Research Capstone): 1BIOI 397Bioinformatics Survey 
BIOI 398 Bioinformatics Internship  BIOI 399Bioinformatics Research  Hours12

--- Page 982 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1013
Year 5
FallBioinformatics Elective  5,63
Bioinformatics Elective  5,63BIOI 498Bioinformatics Internship 51BIOI 500Advanced Bioinformatics 53 Hours10
Spring
Bioinformatics Elective  5,63Bioinformatics Elective  5,63Bioinformatics Elective  5,63 Hours9 Total Hours134-135
1This course is required to meet the GPA requirements for admission
into the Bioinformatics ABM program.
2Courses that could be applied towards both the B.S. and M.S. degrees.
3Alternatively,  CHEM 465 Special Topics in Biochemistry  can be taken
[Spring odd years only]
4Courses required for the MS degree total 30 credit hours.
5If Bioinformatics is taken at the undergraduate level ( BIOL 388
Bioinformatics ), at least one of the Bioinformatics Electives  must be
in Biology .
 Suggested Sequence of Courses - Thesis Track
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
BIOL 101 General Biology I 3CHEM 160Chemical Structure and Properties3
MATH 131 
or MATH 161Applied Calculus I 
or Calculus I3CORE: College Writing Seminar3CORE: Theology and Religious Studies Tier 13 Hours15
Spring
COMP 141 Introduction to Computing Tools and
Techniques3CHEM 180Chemical Reactivity I3
MATH 132 
or MATH 162Applied Calculus II 
or Calculus II3CORE: Ethics3CORE: Theology and Religious Studies Tier 23 Hours15
Year 2
Fall
BIOL 282 Genetics 3BIOL 283Genetics Laboratory1
CHEM 240 Chemical Reactivity II 3MATH 215Object-Oriented Programming with
Mathematics 13
CORE: Historical Knowledge Tier 1 3CORE: Philosophical Knowledge Tier 13 Hours16SpringCOMP 231Data Structures & Algorithms for
Informatics3
CHEM 260 Quantitative Methods in Chemistry 3CAS Elective3
CORE: Historical Knowledge Tier 2 3CORE: Philosophical Knowledge Tier 23 Hours15
Year 3
FallBIOL 388Bioinformatics 13
CHEM 361 Principles of Biochemistry 13Select one of the following (Undergraduate Research Capstone):  11
BIOI 397 Bioinformatics Survey  BIOI 398Bioinformatics Internship 
BIOI 399 Bioinformatics Research  CAS Elective3
CAS Language Requirement 1 3CORE: Literary Knowledge & Experience Tier 13 Hours16
SpringSTAT 335Introduction to Biostatistics 13
BIOL 387 Genomics ( Spring only ) 1, 23CAS Language Requirement 23
CORE: Literary Knowledge & Experience Tier 2 3CORE: Societal and Cultural Knowledge Tier 13Apply for B.S./M.S. Program  Hours15
Year 4
Fall
UNIV 370 Responsible Conduct in Research and
Scholarship 30BIOI 494Bioinformatics Research Design 31
Select one of the following: 3-4BIOL 390Molecular Biology Laboratory 
BIOI 565 
or CHEM 465Exploring Proteins 4, 5 
or Special Topics in Biochemistry COMP 353 
or COMP 379Database Programming 
or Machine Learning 
CAS Elective 3CORE: Societal and Cultural Knowledge Tier 23 Hours10-11
SpringBIOI 501Bioinformatics Seminar 31
COMP 483 Computational Biology 44STAT 437Quantitative Bioinformatics 43
CAS Elective 3CORE: Artistic Knowledge and Experience3 Hours14
Year 5
FallBIOI 499Bioinformatics Research 38

--- Page 983 ---
1014  Bioinformatics (BS/MS)BIOI 500Advanced Bioinformatics 33 Hours11
Spring
Bioinformatics Elective  3,63Bioinformatics Elective  3,63BIOI 595Thesis Supervision 31 Hours7 Total Hours134-135
1This course is required to meet the GPA requirements for admission
into the Bioinformatics ABM program.
2Alternatively,  BIOL 392 Metagenomics  can be taken [Fall only]
3Courses required of the M.S. degree, totaling 30 credit hours.
4Courses which could be applied towards both the B.S. and M.S.
degrees.
5Alternatively  CHEM 465 Special Topics in Biochemistry  can be taken
[Spring odd years only]
6If Bioinformatics is taken at the undergraduate level ( BIOL 388
Bioinformatics ), at least one of the Bioinformatics Electives  must be in
Biology .
Rules for taking MS courses in senior year:
•A maximum of 15 Graduate-level credit hours can be taken during the
undergraduate program.
•Included in these 15 credit hours may be up to three designated
courses that may count as Shared Credits for the BS as well as
the MS degree (formerly known as double dipping). Designated
courses are listed at the bottom of this curriculum. The
three recommended Shared Credits are included in the course list. 
•Graduate-level credit hours that are not Shared Credits will count
toward your MS degree only. 
The following courses are required for the Bioinformatics ABM programs
(BIOI-BS/BIOIMS). Two tracks are offered: a thesis track and a non-thesis
track. While most fundamental courses are required for both tracks,
some track-speciﬁc Graduate-level courses are listed under the respective
thesis track and non-thesis track headers.
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the

--- Page 984 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1015
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
Loyola's Bioinformatics ABM Programs will prepare you with the
following:
•technical skills at the interface of biology, computer science,
chemistry, and statistics;
•biological and chemical laboratory techniques;
•computer programming capabilities;
•statistical techniques to analyze results from laboratory experiments
and computer outputs
•an understanding of critical problems, proposed solutions, and future
challenges of the bioinformatics ﬁeld; and
•the ability to conduct bioinformatics studies in the industry and the
research environment.
Biology/Business (BS/MBA)
With contemporary life sciences playing an ever-larger role in the
economy, there is an increasing demand by employers for individuals
with rigorous training in biology as well as business. Career opportunities
in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are expanding
signiﬁcantly, and are likely to continue to do so for the foreseeable future
as applications of modern biological research continue to grow.
The BS in Biology/MBA dual-degree program provides the type of broad
training that contemporary employers in these industries value. It is the
ﬁrst program of its type in the Chicago area.
Related Programs
Major
•Biology (BS)  (p. 299)
Minor
•Biology Minor  (p. 302)
Curriculum
Program Requirements
Students will complete all the normal requirements for the  BS in Biology
(p. 299). The MBA program is an 18-course program.

--- Page 985 ---
1016  Biology/Business (BS/MBA)
Code Title Hours
BS RequirementsBiology Courses: RequiredBIOL 101 General Biology I 3BIOL 111General Biology I Lab1
BIOL 102 General Biology II 3BIOL 112General Biology II Lab1
BIOL 251 Cell Biology 3BIOL 265Ecology3
BIOL 282 Genetics 3BIOL 335Intro to Biostatistics3
Select one of the following: 1BIOL 252Cell Biology LaboratoryBIOL 266 Ecology LaboratoryBIOL 283Genetics LaboratoryBiology Courses: Electives  (p. 1016 ) 16At least nine (9) credits must be at 300-level and at least two (2)
elective courses must include a laboratory component.  (p. 1017 )ChemistryCHEM 160Chemical Structure and Properties3or CHEM 101General Chemistry A Lecture/Discussionor CHEM 105Chemical Principles
CHEM 161 Chemical Structure and Properties Laboratory 1
or CHEM 105 Chemical Principles
or CHEM 111 General Chemistry Lab ACHEM 180Chemical Reactivity I3or CHEM 221Organic Chemistry I Lec/Discor CHEM 223Organic Chemistry A Lec/Disc
CHEM 181 Chemical Reactivity I Lab 1
or CHEM 221 Organic Chemistry I Lec/Disc
or CHEM 225 Organic Chemistry Lab ACHEM 240Chemical Reactivity II3or CHEM 222Organic Chemistry II Lec/Discor CHEM 224Organic Chemistry B Lec/Disc
CHEM 241 Chemical Reactivity II Laboratory 1
or CHEM 222 Organic Chemistry II Lec/Disc
or CHEM 226 Organic Chemistry Lab BCHEM 260Quantitative Methods in Chemistry3or CHEM 102General Chemistry B Lecture/Discussionor CHEM 106Basic Inorganic Chemistry
CHEM 261 Quantitative Methods in Chemistry Laboratory 1
or CHEM 106 Basic Inorganic Chemistry
or CHEM 112 General Chemistry Lab BMathematicsMATH 131 Applied Calculus I 3-4
or MATH 161 Calculus IMATH 132Applied Calculus II3-4or MATH 162Calculus II
PhysicsPHYS 111College Physics I Lec / Dis3or PHYS 121College Physics I with Calculus Lecture/Discussionor PHYS 125General Physics I Lec/DisPHYS 111L College Physics Laboratory I 1PHYS 112College Physics II Lec/Disc3or PHYS 122College Physics II with Calculus Lecture/Discussionor PHYS 126General Physics II Lec/Dis
PHYS 112L College Physics Lab II 1EconomicsECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics 3ECON 202Principles of Macroeconomics3
MBA RequirementsMBA Prerequisite CoursesISSCM 400N Quantitative Methods I 1,20ISSCM 402NQuantitative Methods II - Statistics Primer 2,30
MBA Introductory CoursesACCT 400Financial Accounting for Business Decisions3
MARK 460 Marketing Management 3ECON 420Managerial Economics 43
FINC 450 Financial Management 3SCMG 480Intro to Operations Management3
MBA CurriculumMARK 425NBusiness Communication1.5
MGMT 426N Leadership Development 1.5MARK 470NResearch, Insights and Storytelling3
FINC 470N Business Finance 3ISSCM 596NData Driven Decision Making3
ETHC 441N Business Ethics 3
or MGMT 446 International Business EthicsHRER 417NManaging and Motivating in the Workplace3
MGMT 430N Strategy and Leadership 3MGMT 431NBusiness Consulting Course3Three (3) MBA Electives9Total Hours121
1Waived from:  ISSCM 400N Quantitative Methods I
If: Student receives grades of B or higher in MATH 131 Applied
Calculus I  or MATH 161 Calculus I
2Note:  ISSCM 400N  and  ISSCM 402N  are zero credit, pass/fail, online,
self-paced courses which can be taken in the ﬁrst quarter of the MBA
degree if necessary.
3Waived from:  ISSCM 402N Quantitative Methods II - Statistics Primer  
If: Student receives grade of B or higher in BIOL 335 Intro to
Biostatistics  or STAT 103 Fundamentals of Statistics
4Waived from:  ECON 420 Managerial Economics  
If: Student receives grades of B or higher in ECON 201 Principles
of Microeconomics  & ECON 202 Principles of Macroeconomics .
  ECON 201  and ECON 202  also fulﬁll the Societal and Cultural
Knowledge and Inquiry requirement of the  Core Curriculum  (p. 1405 ).
Biology Electives
Code Title Hours
BiologyAny BIOL 200-Level Course  1Any BIOL 300-Level CourseBIOL 2TRN Biology 200-Level TransferBIOL 3TRN Biology 300-Level Transfer

--- Page 986 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1017AnthropologyANTH 246 /
BIOL 246Ancient Human-Animal Interactions 3ANTH 280 /
BIOL 280Evolution of Human Disease3
ANTH 281 /
BIOL 281Evolution of the Human Diet 3ANTH 325 /
BIOL 325Primatology-Behavior & Ecology3
ANTH 326 /
BIOL 326Human Osteology Lec/Lab 4ANTH 327 /
BIOL 378Dental Anthropology3
ANTH 346 /
BIOL 346Biology of Women 3ANTH 359 /
BIOL 359Paleopathology3
ChemistryCHEM 361 /
BIOL 366Principles of Biochemistry3
Computer ScienceCOMP 381 /
BIOL 388Bioinformatics3
Environmental ScienceENVS 215 /
BIOL 215Ornithology3
ENVS 267 /
BIOL 347Bird Conservation and Ecology 3ENVS 319 /
BIOL 3293
ENVS 340 /
BIOL 340Natural History of Belize 3ENVS 345 /
BIOL 349Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
Ecosystems3
ENVS 369 /
BIOL 348Field Ornithology 3NeuroscienceNEUR 101 Introduction to Neuroscience 23NEUR 300 /
BIOL 303Seminar in Neuroscience1
NEUR 301 /
BIOL 373Laboratory in Neuroscience I 4NEUR 302Laboratory in Neuroscience II3
PhysicsPHYS 371Biophysics3
PsychologyPSYC 240 /
BIOL 240Psychology-Biology of Perception 23
PSYC 311 /
BIOL 313Lab in Psychobiology 3PSYC 382 /
BIOL 284Behavorial and Cognitive Neuroscience3
PSYC 388 /
BIOL 373Laboratory in Neuroscience I 4StatisticsSTAT 310 /
BIOL 310Categorical Data Analysis 3STAT 335 /
BIOL 335Introduction to Biostatistics3
STAT 336 /
BIOL 336Advanced Biostatistics 3STAT 337 /
BIOL 337Quantitative Methods in Bioinformatics3
1If not already taken as a 200-level required course.
2Either BIOL 240 /PSYC 240 Psychology-Biology of Perception
OR NEUR 101 Introduction to Neuroscience  (but NOT both) count as
Biology Electives.
Lab Requirements
Code Title Hours
100-Level LabsBoth of the following courses are required:BIOL 111 General Biology I Lab 1BIOL 112General Biology II Lab1
200-Level LabsChoose one of the following courses:BIOL 252 Cell Biology Laboratory 1BIOL 266Ecology Laboratory1
BIOL 283 Genetics Laboratory 1Biology Elective LabsChoose at least two of the following courses:BIOL 205Plant Biology Lec/Lab4
BIOL 210 Laboratory Techniques 2BIOL 242Anatomy and Physiology I4
BIOL 243 Anatomy and Physiology II 4BIOL 252Cell Biology Laboratory 11
BIOL 266 Ecology Laboratory 11BIOL 283Genetics Laboratory 11
BIOL 302 General Microbiology Lec/Lab 4BIOL 313 /
PSYC 311Lab in Psychobiology3
BIOL 315 Introductory Immunology Lec/Lab 4BIOL 316Limnology Lec/Lab4
BIOL 323 Comparative Anatomy Lec/Lab 4BIOL 326 /
ANTH 326Human Osteology Lec/Lab4
BIOL 327 Wetland Ecology 4BIOL 340 /
ENVS 340Natural History of Belize3
BIOL 341 Histology Lec/Lab 4BIOL 342Human Anatomy4
BIOL 349 /
ENVS 345Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
Ecosystems3BIOL 355Parasitology Lec/Lab4
BIOL 360 Field Biology 3BIOL 363Entomology Lec/Lab4
BIOL 366L Cell Physiology & Biochemistry Lab 3BIOL 367Bioimaging4

--- Page 987 ---
1018  Biology/Business (BS/MBA)
BIOL 368 Plant Ecology Lec/Lab 4BIOL 370Ichthyology Lec/Lab4
BIOL 373 /
NEUR 301 /
PSYC 388Laboratory in Neuroscience I 4BIOL 375Aquatic Insects Lecture & Laboratory4
BIOL 385 Prin Electron Microscopy Lec/Lab 4BIOL 390Molecular Biology Laboratory4
BIOL 395 Special Topics in Biology (if designated as a
laboratory course)3BIOL 395LSpecial Topics Laboratory1-4
BIOL 396 Research 23BIOL 398Internship in Biology 21-3
NEUR 302 Laboratory in Neuroscience II 3
1If not already taken as the 200-level required lab.
2Either BIOL 396 Research  OR BIOL 398 Internship in Biology  (but NOT
both) count as Biology Electives.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection
Course Title Hours
Year One
Fall
BIOL 101 General Biology I 3BIOL 111General Biology I Lab1
CHEM 160 Chemical Structure and Properties 3CHEM 161Chemical Structure and Properties
Laboratory1MATH 131Applied Calculus I3 Hours11
Spring
BIOL 102 General Biology II 3BIOL 112General Biology II Lab1
CHEM 180 Chemical Reactivity I 3CHEM 181Chemical Reactivity I Lab1MATH 132Applied Calculus II3 Hours11
Year Two
Fall
CHEM 240 Chemical Reactivity II 3CHEM 241Chemical Reactivity II Laboratory1
Select one of the following: 3BIOL 251Cell Biology 
BIOL 265 Ecology  BIOL 282Genetics 
Select one of the following: 1BIOL 252Cell Biology Laboratory 
BIOL 266 Ecology Laboratory  BIOL 283Genetics Laboratory ECON 201Principles of Microeconomics3 Hours11
Spring
CHEM 260 Quantitative Methods in Chemistry 3CHEM 261Quantitative Methods in Chemistry
Laboratory1
Select one of the following: 3BIOL 265Ecology 
BIOL 282 Genetics  BIOL 251Cell Biology ECON 202Principles of Macroeconomics3 Hours10
Year Three
Fall
Select one of the following: 3BIOL 251Cell Biology 
BIOL 265 Ecology  BIOL 282Genetics 
PHYS 111 College Physics I Lec / Dis 3PHYS 111LCollege Physics Laboratory I1 Hours7
SpringBIOL Elective4
PHYS 112 College Physics II Lec/Disc 3PHYS 112LCollege Physics Lab II1BIOL 335Intro to Biostatistics3 Hours11
Year Four
Fall
BIOL Elective 4BIOL Elective3ACCT 400Financial Accounting for Business
Decisions3 Hours10
Spring
BIOL Elective 4BIOL Elective4MARK 460Marketing Management3 Hours11
Year FiveStudents will complete 13 MBA courses in their 5th year with
appropriate waivers.36 Hours36 Total Hours118
Course Waivers
Biology majors admitted to the ﬁve-year program can take up to three
of the required MBA courses listed above during their senior year. The
MBA courses are taught in the evening on a quarter system, with the ﬁrst
quarter beginning at approximately the same time as the fall semester.
Course waivers are determined upon admission to the MBA program.
Ideally, biology majors will be waived from  ISSCM 400 Quantitative

--- Page 988 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1019
Methods , ISSCM 491   and  ECON 420 Managerial Economics .
Thus, they will take  ACCT 400 Financial Accounting for Business
Decisions  and  MARK 460 Marketing Management  during their senior
year. These graduate courses can be applied as six hours of free electives
toward the BS in Biology degree.
Progress Through the Program
In addition to completing the normal requirements for the  BS in Biology
(p. 299), students planning to enter the MBA program should do the
following:
Freshman/Sophomore Years:  Arrange their undergraduate course
scheduling to preserve six hours of free electives until their senior
year. The majority of biology majors have math and foreign language
placements upon entrance that already give them the six hours of free
electives. Through use of summer school, the remaining students can
also readily have the free elective hours by the time they are seniors.
During their ﬁrst two years, students should take  ECON 201 Principles of
Microeconomics  and  ECON 202 Principles of Macroeconomics , which will
satisfy the social science requirement of the Core Curriculum and allow
the student to waive out of  ECON 420 Managerial Economics .
Junior Year (2nd semester):  Take the GMAT and make formal application
to the MBA program. Take  BIOL 335 Intro to Biostatistics . Biostatistics,
which counts as an upper-level elective in the biology major and allows
the student to waive out of  ISSCM 491  .
Senior Year:  Take  ACCT 400 Financial Accounting for Business
Decisions  and  MARK 460 Marketing Management , which will count as
free electives toward the BS degree. Complete all requirements for the BS
in Biology.
Fifth Year:  During the ﬁfth year, students who have followed the above
directions will have a total of 13 MBA courses remaining. These courses
can be completed full-time at the rate of three or four per quarter
(including the summer quarter). Students also have the option to
complete the MBA program on a part-time basis (usually one or two
courses per quarter).
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses

--- Page 989 ---
1020  Biology/Secondary Education (BS/MEd)
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in theSchool/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
At the completion of the Biology BS / Business MBA program:
•Students will demonstrate developing mastery of the following Vision
and Change core concepts and their related principals: evolution (the
diversity of life-forms that have evolved over time through mutations,
selection and genetic change; structure and function (the basic units
of biological structures that deﬁne the functions of all living things);
information flow, exchange and storage (the influence of genetics on
the control of the growth and behavior of organisms); pathways and
transformations of energy and matter (the ways in which chemical
transformation pathways and the laws of thermodynamics govern the
growth and change of biological systems); and systems (the ways in
which living things are interconnected and interact with one another).
•Students will be able to retrieve, synthesize, and critically evaluate
scientiﬁc literature.
•Students will be able to communicate (orally and in writing) results
and interpretation of scientiﬁc research.
•Students will be able to design and implement experiments that test
predictive hypotheses, analyze data, report results, and interpret the
signiﬁcance of these experiments.
•Students will learn: Leadership; Strategy; Data-driven decision
making; and Communication, teamwork, and ethics.
Biology/Secondary Education (BS/
MEd)
NOTE:  This program is not currently accepting applications.
Become a high school biology teacher: In this ﬁve-year, dual-degree
program, students earn a bachelor's degree in Biology and a master's
degree in Secondary Education, preparing them to teach grades 9-12.
Through this program, students qualify for an Illinois Professional
Educator License (PEL) in Secondary Education (grades 9-12) and fulﬁll
the requirements for the Illinois English as Second Language (ESL)
endorsement. Additional endorsements can be added to teach science in
Middles Grades (grades 5-8), as well as additional science disciplines.
In Illinois there is a critical need for secondary science teachers.
Numerous job opportunities are available for students interested in
becoming secondary science teachers.
•Earn both degrees together in less time and at a lower cost than it
would take if pursued separately.
•Gain broad perspective through a multidisciplinary curriculum.

--- Page 990 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1021
•Get real-world classroom experience in diverse settings through
Loyola partnerships with schools and communities.
•Gain extensive experiences engaging with diverse populations,
including students with special needs and those labeled as English
language learners (ELL).
Related Programs
Major
•Biology (BS)  (p. 299)
•Secondary Education (BSEd)  (p. 904)
Master's
•Secondary Education (MEd)  (p. 2014 )
Curriculum
Students are enrolled in the  College of Arts and Sciences  (https://
www.luc.edu/cas/ ) for the ﬁrst four years, working to complete
the requirements for a bachelor of science degree in Biology.  Students
may begin the required sequence of classes for the MEd in Secondary
Education starting in their junior or senior year. The remainder of required
education courses, including student teaching, are completed in the ﬁfth
year.
Code Title Hours
Biology BS RequirementsBiology Courses: RequiredBIOL 101 General Biology I 3BIOL 111General Biology I Lab1
BIOL 102 General Biology II 3BIOL 112General Biology II Lab1
BIOL 251 Cell Biology 3BIOL 265Ecology3
BIOL 282 Genetics 3Choose one of the following:1
BIOL 252 Cell Biology LaboratoryBIOL 266Ecology LaboratoryBIOL 283 Genetics LaboratoryBiology Courses: Electives  (p. 1022 )19
At least nine (9) credits must be at 300-level and at least two (2)
elective courses must include a laboratory component.  (p. 1022 )ChemistryCHEM 160 Chemical Structure and Properties 3
or CHEM 101 General Chemistry A Lecture/Discussion
or CHEM 105 Chemical PrinciplesCHEM 161Chemical Structure and Properties Laboratory1or CHEM 105Chemical Principlesor CHEM 111General Chemistry Lab A
CHEM 180 Chemical Reactivity I 3
or CHEM 221 Organic Chemistry I Lec/Disc
or CHEM 225 Organic Chemistry Lab ACHEM 181Chemical Reactivity I Lab1or CHEM 221Organic Chemistry I Lec/Discor CHEM 225Organic Chemistry Lab A
CHEM 240 Chemical Reactivity II 3or CHEM 222 Organic Chemistry II Lec/Disc
or CHEM 224 Organic Chemistry B Lec/DiscCHEM 241Chemical Reactivity II Laboratory1or CHEM 222Organic Chemistry II Lec/Discor CHEM 226Organic Chemistry Lab B
CHEM 260 Quantitative Methods in Chemistry 3
or CHEM 102 General Chemistry B Lecture/Discussion
or CHEM 106 Basic Inorganic ChemistryCHEM 261Quantitative Methods in Chemistry Laboratory1or CHEM 106Basic Inorganic Chemistryor CHEM 112General Chemistry Lab B
MathematicsMATH 131Applied Calculus I3-4or MATH 161Calculus I
MATH 132 Applied Calculus II 3-4
or MATH 162 Calculus IIPhysicsPHYS 111 College Physics I Lec / Dis 3
or PHYS 121 College Physics I with Calculus Lecture/Discussion
or PHYS 125 General Physics I Lec/DisPHYS 111LCollege Physics Laboratory I1
PHYS 112 College Physics II Lec/Disc 3
or PHYS 122 College Physics II with Calculus Lecture/Discussion
or PHYS 126 General Physics II Lec/DisPHYS 112LCollege Physics Lab II1
Secondary Education MEd RequirementsTLSC 401Language, Learning & Development Theories in
Practice2
TLSC 403 Teaching for Social Justice and Equity 3TLSC 404Constructive Learning Environments for Diverse
Students3
TLSC 406 Educational Policy for Diverse Students 3TLSC 407Individualized Assessment and Instruction for
Diverse Students3
TLSC 443 Adolescent Literacy Instruction 3TLSC 455Secondary Content Mthds: Currclm, Instrctn &
Assmt Secondary Content Areas6
TLSC 460 Developing Rigorous and Relevant Instruction and
Assessment2TLSC 461Designing and Implementing Rigorous and
Relevant Instruction3
TLSC 470A Student Teaching for Change 4TLSC 470BStudent Teaching for Change4TLSC 480Teaching for Change Field Seminar1Total Hours104
Students work under the guidance of the School of Education Senior
Academic Advisor to outline a speciﬁc course of study to fulﬁll all
requirements. The number and timing of the education courses taken in
the fourth and ﬁfth years can vary depending on each student’s particular
needs. Summer courses may be needed between the fourth and ﬁfth year
depending on the number of courses taken during years three and four,
and depending on whether additional teaching endorsements are sought.

--- Page 991 ---
1022  Biology/Secondary Education (BS/MEd)
Biology Electives
Code Title Hours
BiologyAny BIOL 200-Level Course  11
Any BIOL 300-Level CourseBIOL 2TRN Biology 200-Level TransferBIOL 3TRN Biology 300-Level TransferAnthropologyANTH 280 /
BIOL 280Evolution of Human Disease 3ANTH 281 /
BIOL 281Evolution of the Human Diet3
ANTH 325 /
BIOL 325Primatology-Behavior & Ecology 3ANTH 326 /
BIOL 326Human Osteology Lec/Lab4
ANTH 327 /
BIOL 378Dental Anthropology 3ANTH 346 /
BIOL 346Biology of Women3
ANTH 359 /
BIOL 359Paleopathology 3ANTH 360Issues in Archaeology3
ChemistryCHEM 361 /
BIOL 366Principles of Biochemistry3
BioinformaticsCOMP 381 /
BIOL 388Bioinformatics3
Environmental ScienceENVS 215 /
BIOL 215Ornithology3
ENVS 267 /
BIOL 347Bird Conservation and Ecology 3ENVS 319 /
BIOL 3293
ENVS 340 /
BIOL 340Natural History of Belize 3ENVS 345 /
BIOL 349Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
Ecosystems3
ENVS 369 /
BIOL 348Field Ornithology 3ForensicsFRSC 371 /
BIOL 391Forensic Molecular Biology Lecture and Laboratory 5NeuroscienceNEUR 101 Introduction to Neuroscience 23NEUR 300 /
BIOL 303Seminar in Neuroscience1
NEUR 301 /
BIOL 373Laboratory in Neuroscience I 4NEUR 302Laboratory in Neuroscience II3
PhysicsPHYS 371Biophysics3
PsychologyPSYC 240 /
BIOL 240Psychology-Biology of Perception 23
PSYC 311 /
BIOL 240Lab in Psychobiology 3PSYC 382 /
BIOL 284Behavorial and Cognitive Neuroscience3
PSYC 388 /
BIOL 373Laboratory in Neuroscience I 4StatisticsSTAT 310 /
BIOL 310Categorical Data Analysis 3STAT 335 /
BIOL 335Introduction to Biostatistics3
STAT 336 /
BIOL 336Advanced Biostatistics 3STAT 337 /
BIOL 337Quantitative Methods in Bioinformatics3
1If not already taken as a 200-level required course.
2Either  BIOL 240 /PSYC 240 Psychology-Biology of
Perception  OR NEUR 101 Introduction to Neuroscience  (but NOT both)
count as Biology Electives.
Lab Requirements
Code Title Hours
100-Level LabsBoth of the following courses are required:BIOL 111 General Biology I Lab 1BIOL 112General Biology II Lab1
200-Level LabsChoose one of the following courses:BIOL 252 Cell Biology LaboratoryBIOL 266Ecology LaboratoryBIOL 283 Genetics LaboratoryBiology Elective LabsChoose at least two of the following courses:BIOL 205Plant Biology Lec/Lab4
BIOL 210 Laboratory Techniques 2BIOL 242Anatomy and Physiology I4
BIOL 243 Anatomy and Physiology II 4BIOL 252Cell Biology Laboratory 11
BIOL 266 Ecology Laboratory 11BIOL 283Genetics Laboratory 11
BIOL 302 General Microbiology Lec/Lab 4BIOL 313Lab in Psychobiology3
BIOL 315 Introductory Immunology Lec/Lab 4BIOL 316Limnology Lec/Lab4
BIOL 323 Comparative Anatomy Lec/Lab 4BIOL 326Human Osteology Lec/Lab4
BIOL 327 Wetland Ecology 4BIOL 340Natural History of Belize3
BIOL 341 Histology Lec/Lab 4BIOL 342Human Anatomy4
BIOL 350 Vertebrate Physiology 3

--- Page 992 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1023BIOL 355Parasitology Lec/Lab4
BIOL 360 Field Biology 3BIOL 363Entomology Lec/Lab4
BIOL 366L Cell Physiology & Biochemistry Lab 3BIOL 367Bioimaging4
BIOL 368 Plant Ecology Lec/Lab 4BIOL 370Ichthyology Lec/Lab4
BIOL 373 Laboratory in Neuroscience I 4BIOL 375Aquatic Insects Lecture & Laboratory4
BIOL 385 Prin Electron Microscopy Lec/Lab 4BIOL 390Molecular Biology Laboratory4
BIOL 391 Forensic Molecular Biology Lecture and Lab 5BIOL 395Special Topics in Biology (if designated as a
laboratory course)3
BIOL 395L Special Topics Laboratory 1-4BIOL 396Research 23
BIOL 398 Internship in Biology 21-3ANTH 326Human Osteology Lec/Lab4
ENVS 340 Natural History of Belize 3ENVS 345Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
Ecosystems3
ENVS 398 Special Topics (Topic: Bird Conservation &
Ecology)3FRSC 371Forensic Molecular Biology Lecture and Laboratory5
NEUR 301 Laboratory in Neuroscience I 4NEUR 302Laboratory in Neuroscience II3
PSYC 311 Lab in Psychobiology 3PSYC 388Laboratory in Neuroscience I4
1If not already taken as the 200-level required lab.
2Either  BIOL 396 Research  OR BIOL 398 Internship in Biology  (but NOT
both) count as Biology Electives.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
BIOL 101 General Biology I 3BIOL 111General Biology I Lab1
CHEM 160 Chemical Structure and Properties 3CHEM 161Chemical Structure and Properties
Laboratory1MATH 131Applied Calculus I3 Hours11
Spring
BIOL 102 General Biology II 3BIOL 112General Biology II Lab1
CHEM 180 Chemical Reactivity I 3CHEM 181Chemical Reactivity I Lab1MATH 132Applied Calculus II3 Hours11
Year 2
Fall
CHEM 240 Chemical Reactivity II 3CHEM 241Chemical Reactivity II Laboratory1
Select one of the following: 3BIOL 251Cell Biology 
BIOL 265 Ecology  BIOL 282Genetics 
Select one of the following: 1BIOL 252Cell Biology Laboratory 
BIOL 266 Ecology Laboratory  BIOL 283Genetics Laboratory  Hours8
SpringCHEM 260Quantitative Methods in Chemistry3
CHEM 261 Quantitative Methods in Chemistry
Laboratory1Select one of the following:3
BIOL 251 Cell Biology  BIOL 265Ecology BIOL 282Genetics  Hours7
Year 3
Fall
Select one of the following: 3BIOL 251Cell Biology 
BIOL 265 Ecology  BIOL 282Genetics 
PHYS 111 College Physics I Lec / Dis 13PHYS 111LCollege Physics Laboratory I1 Hours7
SpringBIOL Elective4
PHYS 112 College Physics II Lec/Disc 13PHYS 112LCollege Physics Lab II1
TLSC 401 Language, Learning & Development
Theories in Practice 22TLSC 403Teaching for Social Justice and Equity 23TLSC 404Constructive Learning Environments for
Diverse Students 23 Hours16
Year 4
Fall
BIOL Elective 4BIOL Elective3
TLSC 406 Educational Policy for Diverse Students 23TLSC 407Individualized Assessment and Instruction
for Diverse Students 23TLSC 480Teaching for Change Field Seminar 21 Hours14

--- Page 993 ---
1024  Biology/Secondary Education (BS/MEd)
Spring
BIOL Elective 4BIOL Elective4 Hours8
Year 5
FallTLSC 443Adolescent Literacy Instruction3TLSC 455Secondary Content Mthds: Currclm,
Instrctn & Assmt Secondary Content Areas6 Hours9
Spring
TLSC 460 Developing Rigorous and Relevant
Instruction and Assessment2TLSC 461Designing and Implementing Rigorous and
Relevant Instruction3TLSC 470AStudent Teaching for Change4 Hours9
SummerTLSC 470BStudent Teaching for Change4 Hours4 Total Hours104
1May be replaced by a more difﬁcult course.
2If this TLSC course is not taken in this term, it can be taken in Year 5
Summer term.
Program Overview
5-Year Dual-Degree B.S./M.Ed. ProgramYears 1-2Years 3-4Year 5 Summer 1FallSpringSummer 2
Content-
area B.A./
B.S. major
requirements
in CASContent-
area B.A./
B.S. major
requirements
in CAS(Summer courses
may be required,
depending on
what courses were
taken in Years 3-4)Education
courseworkStudent
TeachingStudent
Teaching ends
in JuneContact
School of
Education
advisingContact
School of
Education
advisingOptional  -
Complete
additional
coursework for
endorsements
(e.g., bilingual,
other content
areas)School visits 1
day per week
+ on-campus
courses 3 late
afternoons
and evenings
per weekPart time
student
teaching
starting in
January, full
time starting
in MarchMay apply to
dual-degree
program
starting in
Year 1Apply to
dual-degree
program if
have not
already done
soOptional  - Join
a Professional
Learning
Community
(PLC) in the
School of
Education
as schedule
allowsBegin
education
coursework
as schedule
allowsOptional  - Join
a Professional
Learning
Community
(PLC) in the
School of
Education
as schedule
allows
TRANSFERRING CREDIT
Transfer students seeking the BS in Biology degree must take a minimum
of 20 credit hours in Biology courses at Loyola. No more than 18 credit
hours from another institution may be applied to the BS in Biology degree
program.
COURSE REPEAT RULE
Effective with the spring 2009 semester, students are allowed only TWO
attempts to pass Biology courses with a C- or better grade. The two
attempts includes withdrawals (W).
The procedure for securing approval for a repeat: Students must come to
the Biology Department, ﬁll out a permission to register form, and obtain
signatures of both the faculty instructor, and the Biology Chairperson
or Assistant-Chairperson. A copy of this form is then submitted to the
student's academic advisor to secure ﬁnal permission for the repeat.
After a second attempt to pass a Biology course, it is at the d iscretion of
the Biology Chairperson or Assistant-Chairperson whether the student
may repeat the course.
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate

--- Page 994 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1025
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for theAccelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request

--- Page 995 ---
1026  Biology/Bioinformatics (BS/MS)
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
At the completion of the Biology BS / Secondary Education MEd program:
•Students will demonstrate developing mastery of the following Vision
and Change core concepts and their related principals: evolution (the
diversity of life-forms that have evolved over time through mutations,
selection and genetic change; structure and function (the basic units
of biological structures that deﬁne the functions of all living things);
information flow, exchange and storage (the influence of genetics on
the control of the growth and behavior of organisms); pathways and
transformations of energy and matter (the ways in which chemical
transformation pathways and the laws of thermodynamics govern the
growth and change of biological systems); and systems (the ways in
which living things are interconnected and interact with one another).
•Students will be able to retrieve, synthesize, and critically evaluate
scientiﬁc literature.
•Students will be able to communicate (orally and in writing) results
and interpretation of scientiﬁc research.
•Students will be able to design and implement experiments that test
predictive hypotheses, analyze data, report results, and interpret the
signiﬁcance of these experiments.
•Students will learn to: critically evaluate current bodies of knowledge
in their ﬁeld; apply culturally responsive practices that engage
diverse communities; demonstrate knowledge of ethics and social
justice; hold high expectations and build on the assets of diverse
students; use research and evidence-based practices to design and
implement instruction to meet the individual needs of students;
and apply deep understanding of both content and pedagogy to
provide developmentally appropriate instruction to all students.
Biology/Bioinformatics (BS/MS)
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs (ABM) provide signiﬁcant
cost savings to students interested in accelerating their path to an
advanced degree. An ABM allows full-time students to complete
both an undergraduate and graduate degree within just ﬁve years,
equating to a lower overall cost than completing both programs
separately. The  Bioinformatics ABM programs  include coursework
in Biology , Chemistry , Computer Science , and  Statistics  as well as hands-
on research experience . Students typically apply during the spring
semester of their Junior year ( Applicants must be at least a Junior based on
credit hours and >1 year from completing the BS degree ).
Two  ABM programs are available:
•For students majoring in  Biology  BS -  Bioinformatics
MS (BIOL BS/BIOI MS ) [This page! ]
•For students majoring in  Bioinformatics BS/MS ( BIOI BS/
BIOI MS ) [Please follow  this link  (p. 1010 )!]
The one-year MS component of each program is offered as one of two
tracks:1.Thesis track  (research-based) for students interested in
academic research and advanced degree programs, such
as a Ph.D.
2.Non-thesis track  (internship-based) for students who aim
to enter the workforce in an industrial setting, such as
Biotech and Pharma
Related Programs
Major
•Bioinformatics (BS)  (p. 283)
Master's
•Biology (MS)  (p. 1563 )
Combined
•Bioinformatics (BS/MS)  (p. 1010 )
Curriculum
An ABM allows full-time students to complete an undergraduate AND
graduate degree within ﬁve years. This is possible because students
take Graduate-level courses during their senior year, which earns them
Graduate-level credit. Graduate-level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied toward graduate program
requirements will be referred to as Shared Credits. Up to 15 Graduate-
level credit hours can be taken during senior year, and a minimum of 15
Graduate-level credit hours will be taken during the MS year.
Rules for taking MS courses in senior year:
•A maximum of 15 Graduate-level credit hours can be taken during the
undergraduate program.
•Included in these 15 credit hours may be up to three designated
courses that may count as Shared Credits for the BS and the
MS degree (formerly known as double dipping). Designated
courses are listed at the bottom of this curriculum. Three courses
for recommended Shared Credits are included in the course list.
•Graduate-level credit hours taken during senior year that are not
Shared Credits will count toward the MS degree only.
The following courses are required for the Accelerated Biology BS/
Bioinformatics MS degrees (BIOL-BS/BIOI-MS). Two tracks are
offered: a thesis track and a non-thesis track. While most fundamental
Bioinformatics MS courses are required for both tracks, some track-
speciﬁc Graduate-level courses are listed under the respective thesis
track and non-thesis track headers. Please note that prerequisites for
Bioinformatics MS courses may not be required for the Biology BS
degree. However, they must be completed for MS-required courses.
Code Title Hours
Biology Courses RequiredBIOL 101General Biology I3
BIOL 111 General Biology I Lab 1BIOL 102General Biology II3
BIOL 112 General Biology II Lab 1BIOL 251Cell Biology3
BIOL 265 Ecology 3BIOL 282Genetics3
BIOL 283 Genetics Laboratory 1Biology Elective Courses

--- Page 996 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1027
BIOL 388 Bioinformatics 3CHEM 361Principles of Biochemistry3
STAT 335 Introduction to Biostatistics 3STAT 437Quantitative Bioinformatics (BS+MS credit)3
Select 6 credits of Bioinformatics Electives for Shared Credits (BS
+MS credits)6Biology Courses: Electives  (p. 1027 ) (1+ credit)  11-4
Biology Laboratory RequiredSelect one additional required laboratory component  (p. 1028 ) (1+
credit)1
Chemistry Courses RequiredCHEM 160Chemical Structure and Properties3or CHEM 101General Chemistry A Lecture/Discussionor CHEM 105Chemical Principles
CHEM 161 Chemical Structure and Properties Laboratory 1
or CHEM 105 Chemical Principles
or CHEM 111 General Chemistry Lab ACHEM 180Chemical Reactivity I3or CHEM 221Organic Chemistry I Lec/Discor CHEM 223Organic Chemistry A Lec/Disc
CHEM 181 Chemical Reactivity I Lab 1
or CHEM 221 Organic Chemistry I Lec/Disc
or CHEM 225 Organic Chemistry Lab ACHEM 240Chemical Reactivity II3or CHEM 222Organic Chemistry II Lec/Discor CHEM 224Organic Chemistry B Lec/Disc
CHEM 241 Chemical Reactivity II Laboratory 1
or CHEM 222 Organic Chemistry II Lec/Disc
or CHEM 226 Organic Chemistry Lab BCHEM 260Quantitative Methods in Chemistry3or CHEM 102General Chemistry B Lecture/Discussionor CHEM 106Basic Inorganic Chemistry
CHEM 261 Quantitative Methods in Chemistry Laboratory 1
or CHEM 106 Basic Inorganic Chemistry
or CHEM 112 General Chemistry Lab BMath Courses RequiredMATH 131 Applied Calculus I 3
or MATH 161 Calculus IMATH 132Applied Calculus II3or MATH 162Calculus II
Physics Courses RequiredPHYS 111College Physics I Lec / Dis3or PHYS 121College Physics I with Calculus Lecture/Discussionor PHYS 125General Physics I Lec/Dis
PHYS 111L College Physics Laboratory I 1PHYS 112College Physics II Lec/Disc3or PHYS 122College Physics II with Calculus Lecture/Discussionor PHYS 126General Physics II Lec/Dis
PHYS 112L College Physics Lab II 1MS Bioinformatics Fundamental Courses (both tracks)BIOI 500 Advanced Bioinformatics 3BIOI 501Bioinformatics Seminar1BIOI 565 Exploring Proteins (Fall only) 3
or CHEM 465 Special Topics in BiochemistryCOMP 483Computational Biology (Spring only)4
Thesis track speciﬁc courses 13UNIV 370Responsible Conduct in Research and ScholarshipBIOI 494 Bioinformatics Research DesignBIOI 499Bioinformatics ResearchBIOI 595 Thesis Supervision+ 2 Bioinformatics ElectivesNon-thesis track speciﬁc courses 13BIOI 498Bioinformatics Internship+ 5 Bioinformatics ElectivesTotal Hours105-108
Note : The required courses within the major also satisfy the
following  University Core Curriculum  (p. 1405 ) requirements: scientiﬁc
literacy (6 credits) and quantitative analysis (3 credits).
Biology Electives
Code Title Hours
BiologyAny BIOL 200-Level Course  3Any BIOL 300-Level Course  3BIOL 2TRN Biology 200-Level TransferBIOL 3TRN Biology 300-Level TransferAnthropologyANTH 246 /
BIOL 246Ancient Human-Animal Interactions 3ANTH 280 /
BIOL 280Evolution of Human Disease3
ANTH 281 /
BIOL 281Evolution of the Human Diet 3ANTH 325 /
BIOL 325Primatology-Behavior & Ecology3
ANTH 326 /
BIOL 326Human Osteology Lec/Lab 4ANTH 327 /
BIOL 378Dental Anthropology3
ANTH 346 /
BIOL 346Biology of Women 3ANTH 359 /
BIOL 359Paleopathology3
ChemistryCHEM 361 /
BIOL 366Principles of Biochemistry3
Computer ScienceCOMP 381 /
BIOL 388Bioinformatics3
Environmental ScienceENVS 215 /
BIOL 215Ornithology3
ENVS 267 /
BIOL 347Bird Conservation and Ecology 3ENVS 319 /
BIOL 3293

--- Page 997 ---
1028  Biology/Bioinformatics (BS/MS)
ENVS 340 /
BIOL 340Natural History of Belize 3ENVS 345 /
BIOL 349Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
Ecosystems3
ENVS 369 /
BIOL 348Field Ornithology 3NeuroscienceNEUR 101 Introduction to Neuroscience 43NEUR 300 /
BIOL 303Seminar in Neuroscience1
NEUR 301 /
BIOL 373Laboratory in Neuroscience I 4NEUR 302Laboratory in Neuroscience II3
PhysicsPHYS 371Biophysics3
PsychologyPSYC 240 /
BIOL 240Psychology-Biology of Perception 43
PSYC 311 /
BIOL 313Lab in Psychobiology 3PSYC 382 /
BIOL 284Behavorial and Cognitive Neuroscience3
PSYC 388 /
BIOL 373Laboratory in Neuroscience I 4StatisticsSTAT 310 /
BIOL 310Categorical Data Analysis 3STAT 335 /
BIOL 335Introduction to Biostatistics3
STAT 336 /
BIOL 336Advanced Biostatistics 3STAT 337 /
BIOL 337Quantitative Methods in Bioinformatics3
3If not already taken as a required course.
4Either  BIOL 240 /PSYC 240 Psychology-Biology of
Perception  OR NEUR 101 Introduction to Neuroscience  (but NOT both)
count as Biology Electives.
Lab Requirements
Code Title Hours
100-Level LabsBoth of the following courses are required:BIOL 111 General Biology I Lab 1BIOL 112General Biology II Lab1
200-Level LabsThe following course is required:BIOL 283 Genetics Laboratory 1Biology Elective LabsChoose at least one of the following courses:BIOL 205Plant Biology Lec/Lab4
BIOL 210 Laboratory Techniques 2BIOL 242Anatomy and Physiology I4
BIOL 243 Anatomy and Physiology II 4BIOL 252Cell Biology Laboratory1BIOL 266 Ecology Laboratory 1BIOL 302General Microbiology Lec/Lab4
BIOL 313 /
PSYC 311Lab in Psychobiology 3BIOL 315Introductory Immunology Lec/Lab4
BIOL 316 Limnology Lec/Lab 4BIOL 323Comparative Anatomy Lec/Lab4
BIOL 326 /
ANTH 326Human Osteology Lec/Lab 4BIOL 327Wetland Ecology4
BIOL 340 /
ENVS 340Natural History of Belize 3BIOL 341Histology Lec/Lab4
BIOL 342 Human Anatomy 4BIOL 349 /
ENVS 345Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
Ecosystems3
BIOL 355 Parasitology Lec/Lab 4BIOL 360Field Biology3
BIOL 363 Entomology Lec/Lab 4BIOL 366LCell Physiology & Biochemistry Lab3
BIOL 367 Bioimaging 4BIOL 368Plant Ecology Lec/Lab4
BIOL 370 Ichthyology Lec/Lab 4BIOL 373 /
NEUR 301 /
PSYC 388Laboratory in Neuroscience I4
BIOL 375 Aquatic Insects Lecture & Laboratory 4BIOL 385Prin Electron Microscopy Lec/Lab4
BIOL 390 Molecular Biology Laboratory 4BIOL 395Special Topics in Biology (if designated as a
laboratory course)3
BIOL 395L Special Topics Laboratory 1-4BIOL 396Research 53
BIOL 398 Internship in Biology 51-3NEUR 302Laboratory in Neuroscience II3
5Either  BIOL 396 Research  OR BIOL 398 Internship in Biology  (but NOT
both) count as Biology Electives.
Designated Courses that may count for Shared Credits
for the BS and MS degrees:
Up to three of the listed courses may be taken at the graduate level
during senior year and count as Shared Credits towards the BS and MS
degrees.
Code Title Hours
BIOL 495 Special Topics (Genomics - Spring only) 3BIOL 495Special Topics (Metagenomics - Fall only)3
BIOI 565 Exploring Proteins (Fall only) 3CHEM 465Special Topics in Biochemistry (Proteomics - odd
years, Spring only)3
COMP 453 Database Programming 3COMP 479Machine Learning (Fall only)3

--- Page 998 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1029
COMP 483 Computational Biology 4STAT 437Quantitative Bioinformatics3
List of MS Bioinformatics Electives
Code Title Hours
BiologyBIOL 402Microbiology3
BIOL 482 Advanced Molec Genetics 3BIOL 495Special Topics (Genomics - Spring only)3
BIOL 495 Special Topics (Metagenomics - Fall only) 3BIOL 495Special Topics (Scientiﬁc Logic and Critical
Thinking)3
BIOI 495 Special Topics in Bioinformatics (Human Genetics) 3ChemistryCHEM 425 Special Topics in Organic Chemistry (Medicinal
Chemistry)3CHEM 435Special Topics in Physical Chemistry
(Computational Biochemistry)3
CHEM 455 Special Topics in Analytical Chemistry
(Introduction to Spectroscopy)3CHEM 465Special Topics in Biochemistry (Enzymology)3
CHEM 465 Special Topics in Biochemistry (Plant
Biochemistry)3CHEM 465Special Topics in Biochemistry (Protein
Crystallography)3
Computer ScienceCOMP 406Data Mining3
COMP 413 Intermediate Object-Oriented Development 3COMP 439Distributed Systems3
COMP 453 Database Programming 3COMP 460Algorithms & Complexity3
COMP 471 Theory of Programming Languages 3COMP 479Machine Learning3
COMP 486 Computational Neuroscience 3StatisticsSTAT 406 Stochastic Processes 3STAT 407Statistical Design3
STAT 408 Applied Regression Analysis 3STAT 410Categorical Data Analysis3
STAT 436 Topics in Biostatistics 3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The sequence of courses below is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor(s) for assistance with course selection.
These sample course schedules exemplify how students may complete
their Bioinformatics major (BS), University Core Requirements, and MS
in Bioinformatics within ﬁve years of study. The ﬁrst is an example for
the Non-thesis track, and the second for the thesis track:Sample Schedule Biology BS/Bioinformatics MS Non-thesis Track
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
BIOL 101 General Biology I 3BIOL 111General Biology I Lab1
CHEM 160 Chemical Structure and Properties 3CHEM 161Chemical Structure and Properties
Laboratory1
MATH 131 Applied Calculus I 3CORE: College Writing Seminar3 Hours14
SpringBIOL 102General Biology II3
BIOL 112 General Biology II Lab 1CHEM 180Chemical Reactivity I3
CHEM 181 Chemical Reactivity I Lab 1MATH 132Applied Calculus II3
CORE: Theology and Religious Studies Tier 1 3CORE: Philosophical Knowledge Tier 13 Hours17
Year 2
FallBIOL 282Genetics3
BIOL 283 Genetics Laboratory 1CHEM 260Quantitative Methods in Chemistry3
CHEM 261 Quantitative Methods in Chemistry
Laboratory1CAS Elective (CS course recommended)3
CORE: Historical Knowledge Tier 1 3CORE: Artistic Knowledge and Experience3 Hours17
SpringBIOL 251Cell Biology3
CHEM 224 Organic Chemistry B Lec/Disc 3CHEM 226Organic Chemistry Lab B1
CORE: Historical Knowledge Tier 2 3CORE: Literary Knowledge Tier 13CORE: Theology and Religious Studies Tier 23 Hours16
Year 3
Fall
BIOL Elective Lab 1BIOL 388Bioinformatics 13
PHYS 111 College Physics I Lec / Dis 3PHYS 111LCollege Physics Laboratory I1
CAS Elective  43CAS Language Requirement 13CORE: Philosophical Knowledge Tier 23 Hours17
Spring
BIOL 265 Ecology 3

--- Page 999 ---
1030  Biology/Bioinformatics (BS/MS)CHEM 361Principles of Biochemistry 13
BIOL Elective Lab 1STAT 335Introduction to Biostatistics 13
PHYS 112 College Physics II Lec/Disc 3PHYS 112LCollege Physics Lab II1
CAS Language Requirement 2 3Apply for B.S./M.S Program  Hours17
Year 4
FallBIOL Elective: Bioinformatics Elective  23
CAS Elective  53CORE: Literary Knowledge Tier 23
CORE: Societal & Cultural Knowledge Tier 1 3CORE: Ethics3 Hours15
SpringSTAT 437Quantitative Bioinformatics 23
BIOL Elective: Bioinformatics Elective  23Bioinformatics Elective  33CORE: Societal & Cultural Knowledge Tier 23 Hours12
Year 5
Fall
BIOI 500 Advanced Bioinformatics 33BIOI 565Exploring Proteins 33Bioinformatics Elective  33 Hours9
Spring
BIOI 498 Bioinformatics Internship 31BIOI 501Bioinformatics Seminar 31
COMP 483 Computational Biology 34Bioinformatics Elective  33 Hours9 Total Hours143
1This course is required to meet the GPA requirements for admission
into the Bioinformatics ABM program.
2Courses which could be applied towards both the B.S. and M.S.
degrees.
3Required of the M.S. degree, totaling 30 credit hours
4Computer Science course,  COMP 215  Object Oriented Programming
with Mathematics , recommended.
5Computer Science course,  COMP 231  Data Structures & Algorithms for
Informatics , recommended
Sample Schedule Biology BS/Bioinformatics MS Thesis Track 
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
BIOL 101 General Biology I 3BIOL 111General Biology I Lab1
CHEM 160 Chemical Structure and Properties 3CHEM 161Chemical Structure and Properties
Laboratory1
MATH 131 Applied Calculus I 3CORE: College Writing Seminar3 Hours14
SpringBIOL 102General Biology II3
BIOL 112 General Biology II Lab 1CHEM 180Chemical Reactivity I3
CHEM 181 Chemical Reactivity I Lab 1MATH 132Applied Calculus II3
CORE: Theology and Religious Studies Tier 1 3CORE: Philosophical Knowledge Tier 13 Hours17
Year 2
FallBIOL 282Genetics3
BIOL 283 Genetics Laboratory 1CHEM 240Chemical Reactivity II3
CHEM 241 Chemical Reactivity II Laboratory 1CORE: Historical Knowledge Tier 13
CORE: Artistic Knowledge and Experience 3CAS Elective (CS course recommended)3 Hours17
SpringBIOL 251Cell Biology3
CHEM 260 Quantitative Methods in Chemistry 3CHEM 261Quantitative Methods in Chemistry
Laboratory1
CORE: Historical Knowledge Tier 2 3CORE: Literary Knowledge Tier 13CORE: Theology and Religious Studies Tier 23 Hours16
Year 3
Fall
BIOL Elective Lab 1BIOL 388Bioinformatics 13
PHYS 111 College Physics I Lec / Dis 3PHYS 111LCollege Physics Laboratory I1
CAS Elective  43CAS Language Requirement 13CORE: Philosophical Knowledge Tier 23 Hours17
Spring
CHEM 361 Principles of Biochemistry 13BIOL Elective Lab1
STAT 335 Introduction to Biostatistics 13PHYS 112College Physics II Lec/Disc3
PHYS 112L College Physics Lab II 1CAS Language Requirement 23Apply for B.S./M.S. Program  Hours14

--- Page 1000 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1031
Year 4
Fall
UNIV 370 Responsible Conduct in Research and
Scholarship 20BIOI 494Bioinformatics Research Design 21
BIOL Elective: Bioinformatics BIOL Elective  33CAS Elective  53
CORE: Literary Knowledge Tier 2 3CORE: Societal & Cultural Knowledge Tier 13CORE: Ethics3 Hours16
Spring
BIOL 265 Ecology 3BIOI 501Bioinformatics Seminar 21
STAT 437 Quantitative Bioinformatics 33BIOL Elective: Bioinformatics BIOL Elective  33CORE: Societal & Cultural Knowledge Tier 23 Hours13
Year 5
Fall
BIOI 500 Advanced Bioinformatics 23BIOI 565Exploring Proteins 23BIOI 499Bioinformatics Research 24 Hours10
Spring
COMP 483 Computational Biology 24BIOI 499Bioinformatics Research 24BIOI 595Thesis Supervision 21 Hours9 Total Hours143
1This course is required to meet the GPA requirements for admission
into the Bioinformatics ABM program.
2Courses required of the M.S. degree, totaling 30 credit hours.
3Courses which could be applied towards both the B.S. and M.S.
degrees
4Computer Science course,  COMP 215 Object Oriented Programming
with Mathematics , recommended.
5Computer Science course,  COMP 231 Data Structures & Algorithms for
Informatics , recommended.
TRANSFERRING CREDIT
Transfer students seeking the BS in Biology degree must take a minimum
of 20 credit hours in Biology courses at Loyola. No more than 18 credit
hours from another institution may be applied to the BS in Biology degree
program.
COURSE REPEAT RULE
Effective with the spring 2009 semester, students are allowed only TWO
attempts to pass Biology courses with a C- or better grade. The two
attempts includes withdrawals (W).
The procedure for securing approval for a repeat: Students must come to
the Biology Department, ﬁll out a permission to register form, and obtain
signatures of both the faculty instructor, and the Biology Chairpersonor Assistant-Chairperson. A copy of this form is then submitted to the
student's academic advisor to secure ﬁnal permission for the repeat.
After a second attempt to pass a Biology course, it is at the d iscretion of
the Biology Chairperson or Assistant-Chairperson whether the student
may repeat the course.
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been

--- Page 1001 ---
1032  Biology/Bioinformatics (BS/MS)
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
At the completion of the Biology BS / Bioinformatics MS program:
•Students will demonstrate developing mastery of the following Vision
and Change core concepts and their related principals: evolution (the
diversity of life-forms that have evolved over time through mutations,
selection and genetic change; structure and function (the basic units
of biological structures that deﬁne the functions of all living things);
information flow, exchange and storage (the influence of genetics on
the control of the growth and behavior of organisms); pathways and
transformations of energy and matter (the ways in which chemical
transformation pathways and the laws of thermodynamics govern the
growth and change of biological systems); and systems (the ways in
which living things are interconnected and interact with one another).
•Students will be able to retrieve, synthesize, and critically evaluate
scientiﬁc literature.

--- Page 1002 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1033
•Students will be able to communicate (orally and in writing) results
and interpretation of scientiﬁc research.
•Students will be able to design and implement experiments that test
predictive hypotheses, analyze data, report results, and interpret the
signiﬁcance of these experiments.
•Students will gain fundamental skills that will help you be an
inquisitive scientist: a solid foundation in biological, computational,
chemical, and statistical concepts and theory; the capacity to
employ statistical and computational methods to investigate and
solve problems within the life sciences; and the ability to conduct
bioinformatics study in industry and/or the research environment.
Business Administration (BBA/MBA)
The ﬁve-year BBA/MBA degree program provides focused and high-
achieving undergraduate study. The program is designed for students
intent upon building their resumes, skill sets, and business judgment.
You'll have the chance to earn both undergraduate and graduate degrees
in a compressed time frame.
Because Loyola is a member of the Jesuit network of 27 colleges and
universities nationwide, our graduates can receive career services at
Quinlan's  Business Career Services  (https://www.luc.edu/quinlan/
studentlife/businesscareerservices/ ), as well as at  career centers
(https://www.ajcunet.edu/career-service-leaders/ ) at U.S. Jesuit colleges
and universities.
Related Programs
Major
•Business Administration (AA)  (p. 41)
Minor
•Business Administration Minor  (p. 764)
Combined
•Business Analytics (MBA/MS)  (p. 2209 )
Curriculum
All Quinlan School of Business students must complete the University
Core Curriculum, Business Core Curriculum, and Undergraduate School of
Business program requirements.
Code Title Hours
BBA RequirementsCOMM 103Business & Professional Speaking3
MATH 110 Business Precalculus 13-4
or MATH 130 Business CalculusETHC 341Ethics in Business3
Two (2) Writing Intensive Courses  26Global Awareness Course  33
Any business course from the International Business Major Group,
or: (p. 1033 )ANTH 100Globalization and Local CulturesANTH 102 Culture, Society, and DiversityENTR 313Entrepreneurship - Global Opportunity ScanGLST 101 Introduction to Global StudiesPLSC 102International Relations in an Age of GlobalizationBusiness Core CurriculumACCT 201Introductory Accounting I3
ACCT 202 Introductory Accounting II 3INFS 343Business Analytics3or ECON 346Econometrics
ECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics 3ECON 202Principles of Macroeconomics3
FINC 301 Introductory Business Finance 3
or FINC 334 Principles of Corporate FinanceISSCM 241Business Statistics3or STAT 103Fundamentals of Statistics
INFS 247 Business Information Systems 3SCMG 332Operations Management3
LREB 315 Law and the Regulatory Environment of Business I 3MGMT 201Managing People and Organizations3
MGMT 304 Strategic Management 3MARK 201Principles of Marketing3
MBA RequirementsMARK 425NBusiness Communication1.5
MGMT 426N Leadership Development 1.5MARK 470NResearch, Insights and Storytelling3
ISSCM 596N Data Driven Decision Making 3FINC 470NBusiness Finance3
ETHC 441N Business Ethics 3
or MGMT 446 International Business EthicsMGMT 430NStrategy and Leadership3
HRER 417N Managing and Motivating in the Workplace 3MGMT 431NBusiness Consulting Course3
ElectivesFour (4) MBA Electives12Total Hours93
1Students majoring in Economics or Finance should take  MATH 130
Business Calculus  (or MATH 131 Applied Calculus I  or MATH 161
Calculus I ).  All other students take  MATH 110 Business
Precalculus  (or MATH 131 Applied Calculus I ).
2One of which must be a Quinlan course or  ENGL 210 Business Writing
3A study abroad experience will also satisfy this requirement.
International Business Major Group
Code Title Hours
ACCT 306 Advanced Financial Accounting 3ECON 323International Economics3
ECON 324 International Monetary Relations 3ECON 325Economics of Growth & Development3
FINC 355 International Finance Management 3HRER 329Global HR and Organizational Behavior3
IBUS 201 Introduction to International Business 3IBUS 201HBusiness Management: A Global and Social
Perspective3
IBUS 315 International Management 3INFS 336Global Perspectives on Digital Business3
MARK 363 International Marketing 3

--- Page 1003 ---
1034  Business Administration (BBA/MBA)SCMG 338Global Transportation3
SPRT 345 Globalization of Sport Industry 3
Degree Requirements and Course Sequence
BBA/MBA students take a total of 12 courses for the MBA requirements.
Course Sequence
A typical course sequence for a Loyola BBA/MBA student is as follows:
•Apply by October 15 if graduating with your BBA in May. Apply by
April 15 if graduating with your BBA in December.
•Students take 2-3 courses per quarter and complete their degree at
the end of the following summer quarter (one year).
SECOND SEMESTER, LOYOLA SENIOR YEAR
•2 MBA electives for the undergraduate major
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the

--- Page 1004 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1035
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditionalmaster’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
Learning Goals for Master of Business Administration Program (MBA):
•Goal 1: Integrative Business Knowledge: Graduates will be proﬁcient
in integrating the techniques, processes, and procedures of the
fundamental business disciplines (accounting, economics, ﬁnance,
marketing, management, human resource management, operations
management, and information technology). They will be able to apply
theory, skills, and knowledge from these disciplines to business
practice.
•Goal 2: Critical Decision Making: Graduates will demonstrate
their capacity for critical analysis in processing, interpreting, and
managing the quantitative and qualitative information necessary for
effective managerial decision making.
•Goal 3: Ethics and Responsible Leadership: Graduates will
understand how to be a leader in business who exhibits personal
integrity, ethical awareness, and an ability to apply ethical principles
to business practice.
•Goal 4: Global Perspective and Awareness of Diversity: Graduates
will have a global perspective by recognizing international business
issues and appreciating diversity, including culture, race, religion, and
gender.
•Goal 5: Communication: Graduates will be able to communicate
effectively, orally. Graduates will be able to communicate effectively,
in writing.        
Business/Accountancy (BBA/MSA)
Loyola's BBA/MSA degree program is rigorous yet flexible. Interested
and qualiﬁed students should apply to complete the master's portion
of the program during the second semester of their junior year to take
advantage of an MSA program 2-course reduction opportunity.
Students can apply to the MSA program at any time during their
academic career. BBA/MSA students can complete the graduate
coursework component in one year.
Related Programs
Major
•Business Administration (AA)  (p. 41)
Master's
•Accountancy (MSA)  (p. 1896 )
Combined
•Business Administration (BBA/MBA)  (p. 1033 )
Curriculum
All Quinlan School of Business students must complete the University
Core Curriculum, Business Core Curriculum, and Undergraduate School of
Business program requirements.
Code Title Hours
Undergraduate Business Program RequirementsCOMM 103Business & Professional Speaking 13

--- Page 1005 ---
1036  Business/Accountancy (BBA/MSA)
MATH 110 Business Precalculus 23-4
or MATH 130 Business CalculusETHC 341Ethics in Business3
QUIN 101 Business Learning and Careers 0QUIN 102Financial Literacy and Well-Being1
QUIN 202 Career Preparation 2Writing IntensiveSelect two Writing Intensive courses  36Global AwarenessSelect one of the following:  43Any business course from the International Business Major Group,
or: (p. 1036 )ANTH 100 Globalization and Local CulturesANTH 102Culture, Society, and DiversityENTR 313 Entrepreneurship - Global Opportunity ScanGLST 101Introduction to Global StudiesPLSC 102 International Relations in an Age of GlobalizationBusiness Core CurriculumACCT 201 Introductory Accounting I 3ACCT 202Introductory Accounting II3
ECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics 3ECON 202Principles of Macroeconomics3
FINC 301 Introductory Business Finance 3
or FINC 334 Principles of Corporate FinanceINFS 247Business Information Systems3
INFS 343 Business Analytics 3
or ECON 346 EconometricsISSCM 241Business Statistics3or STAT 103Fundamentals of Statistics
LREB 315 Law and the Regulatory Environment of Business I 3MARK 201Principles of Marketing3
MGMT 201 Managing People and Organizations 3MGMT 304Strategic Management3
SCMG 232 Introduction to Supply Chain Management 3BBA Accounting Major RequirementsACCT 303 Intermediate Accounting I 3ACCT 304Intermediate Accounting II3
ACCT 311 Auditing & Internal Control Systems 3ACCT 317Managerial Accounting3
ACCT 328 Concepts in Taxation 3Select three of the following:9
ACCT 306 Advanced Financial AccountingACCT 307Adv Accounting: Not-For-Proﬁt Entities & Adv
Financial Accounting TopicsACCT 308 Accounting Information Systems and
Sustainability ReportingACCT 323Advanced CPA TopicsACCT 326 Fraud InvestigationACCT 341Advanced Studies in TaxationACCT 399 Special Topics in Accounting 5MS Accountancy Course RequirementsEthics CourseETHC 441NBusiness Ethics3or MGMT 446International Business Ethicsor INFS 795Ethics and Data Analytics
MS Accountancy Core Classes 18ACCT 402Issues in Financial ReportingACCT 404 Financial State AnalysisACCT 412Special Topics in AccountingACCT 424 Managerial AccountingACCT 425International AccountingACCT 431 Tax ResearchACCT 432State, Local and International TaxACCT 436 Forensic Accounting and FraudACCT 437Advanced Forensic AccountingLREB 445 Entrepreneurship LawElectives  6Two MBA non-accounting elective courses 6Three electives (MBA or MSA)9Total Hours120
1Accounting majors with prior credit for  COMM 101  Public Speaking &
Critical Thinking  must take  ENGL 210  Business Writing  to complete this
requirement.
2Students majoring in Economics or Finance should take  MATH 130
Business Calculus  (or MATH 131 Applied Calculus I  or MATH 161
Calculus I ).  All other students take  MATH 110 Business
Precalculus  (or MATH 131 Applied Calculus I ).
3One must be a Quinlan course or  ENGL 210 Business Writing .
4A study abroad experience will also satisfy this requirement.
5Only one  ACCT 399  Special Topics in Accounting  class is allowed to
count for this major.
6Students work with the MSA program director in choosing electives.
Major Requirements
BBA Accounting Major Requirements:  Undergraduate students who
choose to complete the accounting major must complete 24 credit
hours within the major (not including  ACCT 201 Introductory Accounting
I/ACCT 202 Introductory Accounting II ).
BBA/MSA Requirements:  BBA/MSA students must complete 12
additional courses (36 hours) beyond the BBA accounting major
requirements. This includes six graduate accounting courses (six MSA-
level), one graduate business ethics course, two MBA elective courses
(non-accounting), and three general elective courses (MBA, MSA).
Students choosing the BBA/MSA program may take two graduate
accounting courses during their senior year that would count towards
both the undergraduate and graduate accounting hours requirement.
International Business Major Group
Code Title Hours
ACCT 306 Advanced Financial Accounting 3ECON 323International Economics3
ECON 324 International Monetary Relations 3ECON 325Economics of Growth & Development3
FINC 355 International Finance Management 3HRER 329Global HR and Organizational Behavior3
IBUS 201 Introduction to International Business 3

--- Page 1006 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1037IBUS 201HBusiness Management: A Global and Social
Perspective3
IBUS 315 International Management 3INFS 336Global Perspectives on Digital Business3
MARK 363 International Marketing 3SCMG 338Global Transportation3
SPRT 345 Globalization of Sport Industry 3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Semester IACCT 201Introductory Accounting I3 Hours3
Semester IIACCT 202Introductory Accounting II3 Hours3
Year 2
Semester I
ACCT 303 Intermediate Accounting I 3ACCT 328Concepts in Taxation3 Hours6
Semester IIACCT 304Intermediate Accounting II3ACCT 311Auditing & Internal Control Systems3 Hours6
Year 3
Semester I
ACCT 317 Managerial Accounting 3Select one accounting elective of the following:3
ACCT 306 Advanced Financial Accounting  ACCT 308Accounting Information Systems and
Sustainability Reporting 
ACCT 323 Advanced CPA Topics  ACCT 341Advanced Studies in Taxation ACCT 399Special Topics in Accounting  Hours6
Semester II
Select one accounting elective of the following: 3ACCT 306Advanced Financial Accounting 
ACCT 323 Advanced CPA Topics  ACCT 341Advanced Studies in Taxation ACCT 399Special Topics in Accounting  Hours3
Year 4
Semester I
Select one accounting elective of the following: 3ACCT 306Advanced Financial Accounting ACCT 308 Accounting Information Systems and
Sustainability Reporting ACCT 323Advanced CPA Topics 
ACCT 341 Advanced Studies in Taxation  ACCT 399Special Topics in Accounting Also, consider graduate accounting class if BBA/MSA student.  Hours3
Semester II
Select one accounting elective of the following: 3ACCT 306Advanced Financial Accounting 
ACCT 308 Accounting Information Systems and
Sustainability Reporting ACCT 323Advanced CPA Topics 
ACCT 341 Advanced Studies in Taxation  ACCT 399Special Topics in Accounting Also, consider graduate accounting class if BBA/MSA student.  Hours3
Year Five
Semester IMeet with MSA program director  Hours0 Total Hours33
 Note: If you are an undergraduate accounting major, some modiﬁcation
of the 12-course MSA program requirement is possible if you opt for
taking up to two graduate accounting classes while in your senior year.
You can also double count these courses towards the undergraduate
accounting major requirement.
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1

--- Page 1007 ---
1038  Business/Accountancy (BBA/MSA)
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the

--- Page 1008 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1039
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•Deep and broad understanding of accounting and business
•Strategic cost management
•Financial management
•Auditing and business risk
•Legal and regulatory knowledge
•Ethics and values in accounting and business
•Decision-making and problem-solving skills
•International implications of accounting and business decisions
Business/Business Analytics (BBA/
MS)
The ﬁve-year BBA/MS degree program provides focused and high-
achieving undergraduate study. The program is designed for students
intent upon building their resumes, skill sets, and business judgment.
You'll have the chance to earn both undergraduate and graduate degrees
in a compressed time frame.
Related Programs
Combined
•Business Analytics (MBA/MS)  (p. 2209 )
•Business/Accountancy (BBA/MSA)  (p. 1035 )
•Business/Finance (BBA/MSF)  (p. 1042 )
Curriculum
All Quinlan School of Business students must complete the University
Core Curriculum, Business Core Curriculum, and Undergraduate School of
Business program requirements.
Code Title Hours
BBA RequirementsCOMM 103Business & Professional Speaking3
MATH 110 Business Precalculus 13-4
or MATH 130 Business CalculusETHC 341Ethics in Business3
QUIN 101 Business Learning and Careers 0QUIN 102Financial Literacy and Well-Being1
Two (2) Writing Intensive Courses  26Global Awareness Course  33
Any business course from the International Business Major Group,
or: (p. 1040 )ANTH 100Globalization and Local CulturesANTH 102 Culture, Society, and DiversityENTR 313Entrepreneurship - Global Opportunity ScanGLST 101 Introduction to Global StudiesPLSC 102International Relations in an Age of GlobalizationBusiness Core CurriculumACCT 201Introductory Accounting I3
ACCT 202 Introductory Accounting II 3INFS 343Business Analytics3or ECON 346Econometrics
ECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics 3ECON 202Principles of Macroeconomics3
FINC 301 Introductory Business Finance 3
or FINC 334 Principles of Corporate FinanceISSCM 241Business Statistics3or STAT 103Fundamentals of Statistics
INFS 247 Business Information Systems 3SCMG 332Operations Management3
LREB 315 Law and the Regulatory Environment of Business I 3MGMT 201Managing People and Organizations3
MGMT 304 Strategic Management 3MARK 201Principles of Marketing3
MS RequirementsRequired CoursesINFS 443 Business Analytics 3INFS 492Database Systems3
INFS 494 Applied Data Mining and Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI) 3INFS 592Data Visualization3
INFS 791 Programming for Business Decision Making 3INFS 796Data Warehousing3
ISSCM 491 Managerial Statistics with Artiﬁcial Intelligence
(AI)3Electives9
Group One (Take up to 5 Courses)  4INFS 485INFS 493 Database AnalyticsINFS 691Principles of Analytic ProgrammingINFS 797 Applications of VisualizationINFS 798AI Product ManagementGroup Two (Take 0 to 4 Courses)  5ECON 522Game Theory & StrategyECON 622 /
FINC 622Derivative SecuritiesECON 625 /
FINC 625Applied EconometricsFINC 452 Investment ManagementFINC 553Applied Portfolio ManagementFINC 624 Interest Rate Risk ManagementFINC 626Credit Risk Management and Structured FinanceHRER 490 Analytical Problem SolvingISSCM 484NProject ManagementISSCM 495 Forecasting Methods with Artiﬁcial Intelligence
(AI)ISSCM 596NData Driven Decision MakingMARK 461 Research Methods in MarketingMARK 468Digital Marketing

--- Page 1009 ---
1040  Business/Business Analytics (BBA/MS)
MARK 562 Database Marketing StrategyMARK 661Customer AnalyticsMARK 662 Marketing MetricsSCMG 480Intro to Operations ManagementSCMG 486 Global LogisticsSCMG 487Purchasing ManagementSCMG 488 Inventory ManagementSCMG 489Supply Chain AnalyticsEthics Requirement 3Select one of the following:ETHC 441N Business EthicsINFS 795Ethics and Data AnalyticsMGMT 446 International Business EthicsPracticumSelect one of the following:INFS 797Applications of VisualizationINFS 798 AI Product ManagementBSAD 699Total Hours91-92
1Students majoring in Economics or Finance should take  MATH 130
Business Calculus  (or MATH 131 Applied Calculus I  or MATH 161
Calculus I ).  All other students take  MATH 110 Business
Precalculus  (or MATH 131 Applied Calculus I ).
2One of which must be a Quinlan course or  ENGL 210 Business Writing
3A study abroad experience will also satisfy this requirement.
4Some courses may be substituted based on previous coursework with
the permission of the program director.
5Additional courses may be approved by the program director.
International Business Major Group  
Code Title Hours
ACCT 306 Advanced Financial Accounting 3ECON 323International Economics3
ECON 324 International Monetary Relations 3ECON 325Economics of Growth & Development3
FINC 355 International Finance Management 3HRER 329Global HR and Organizational Behavior3
IBUS 201 Introduction to International Business 3IBUS 201HBusiness Management: A Global and Social
Perspective3
IBUS 315 International Management 3INFS 336Global Perspectives on Digital Business3
MARK 363 International Marketing 3SCMG 338Global Transportation3
SPRT 345 Globalization of Sport Industry 3
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSNprogram are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.

--- Page 1010 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1041
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduatecredit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
Learning Outcomes for the MS
At the completion of the program, graduates are expected to:
•Use data to drive strategic and tactical business decisions;
•Utilize sophisticated database, data warehousing, data mining, and
data visualization methodologies and techniques to capture and
apply data as a corporate asset;
•Demonstrate competence with various languages and tools, SQL, R,
Tableau, and Python;
•Lead, supervise, and manage information systems projects of varying
levels of complexity;
•Demonstrate effective communication skills with technical and non-
technical individuals and groups;
•Show ability to effectively collaborate with and provide technical
leadership to a variety of business units and organizations;
•Demonstrate a high level of technical aptitude in design,
development, and use of information systems components;

--- Page 1011 ---
1042  Business/Finance (BBA/MSF)
•Integrate values and ethics into data analysis and information
systems projects and solutions.
Business/Finance (BBA/MSF)
The ﬁve-year BBA/Master of Finance degree program provides focused
and high-achieving undergraduate study. The program is designed for
students intent upon building their resumes, skill sets, and business
judgment. You'll have the chance to earn both undergraduate and
graduate degrees in a compressed time frame.
Program Structure
Undergraduate and graduate courses for the MSF program are held on
Loyola's Water Tower Campus, which is conveniently located off the Red
Line in downtown Chicago, as well as online. Undergraduate courses are
held on weekdays during the day. Graduate courses are held weekday
evenings.
Related Programs
Combined
•Business Administration (BBA/MBA)  (p. 1033 )
•Business Analytics (MBA/MS)  (p. 2209 )
•Business/Marketing (BBA/MSM)  (p. 1047 )
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
BBA RequirementsCOMM 103Business & Professional Speaking3
MATH 110 Business Precalculus 13-4
or MATH 130 Business CalculusETHC 341Ethics in Business3
QUIN 101 Business Learning and Careers 0QUIN 102Financial Literacy and Well-Being1
Two (2) Writing Intensive Courses  26Global Awareness Course  33
Any business course from the International Business Major Group,
or: (p. 1042 )ANTH 100Globalization and Local CulturesANTH 102 Culture, Society, and DiversityENTR 313Entrepreneurship - Global Opportunity ScanGLST 101 Introduction to Global StudiesPLSC 102International Relations in an Age of GlobalizationBusiness Core CurriculumACCT 201Introductory Accounting I3
ACCT 202 Introductory Accounting II 3INFS 343Business Analytics3or ECON 346Econometrics
ECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics 3ECON 202Principles of Macroeconomics3
FINC 301 Introductory Business Finance 3
or FINC 334 Principles of Corporate FinanceISSCM 241Business Statistics3or STAT 103Fundamentals of Statistics
INFS 247 Business Information Systems 3SCMG 332Operations Management3
LREB 315 Law and the Regulatory Environment of Business I 3MGMT 201Managing People and Organizations3
MGMT 304 Strategic Management 3MARK 201Principles of Marketing3
MS Finance CoursesEthics CourseETHC 441N Business Ethics 3
or MGMT 446 International Business EthicsMS Finance Core CourseworkFINC 452 Investment Management 3FINC 620Financial Mathematics and Modeling I3
FINC 621 Financial Mathematics and Modeling II 3FINC 622 /
ECON 622Derivative Securities3
FINC 624 Interest Rate Risk Management 3FINC 625 /
ECON 625Applied Econometrics3
FINC 626 Credit Risk Management and Structured Finance 3FINC 630Capstone Master of Science Finance3
ElectivesStudents choose 3 electives from an approved list of ﬁnance or
accounting coursework. Students should seek advising from the MSF
program director on the elective options.Total Hours85
1Students majoring in Economics or Finance should take  MATH 130
Business Calculus  (or MATH 131 Applied Calculus I  or MATH 161
Calculus I ).  All other students take  MATH 110 Business
Precalculus  (or MATH 131 Applied Calculus I ).
International Business Major Group
Code Title Hours
ACCT 306 Advanced Financial Accounting 3ECON 323International Economics3
ECON 324 International Monetary Relations 3ECON 325Economics of Growth & Development3
FINC 355 International Finance Management 3HRER 329Global HR and Organizational Behavior3
IBUS 201 Introduction to International Business 3IBUS 201HBusiness Management: A Global and Social
Perspective3
IBUS 315 International Management 3INFS 336Global Perspectives on Digital Business3
MARK 363 International Marketing 3SCMG 338Global Transportation3
SPRT 345 Globalization of Sport Industry 3

--- Page 1012 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1043
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate

--- Page 1013 ---
1044  Business/Human Resources (BBA/MSHR)
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
Our Master of Science in Finance program will provide you with
specialized knowledge of:
•Financial securities
•Financial markets
•Risk metrics
•Investment criteria
•Capital budgeting techniques
•Hedging strategies
•General modeling and analytical skills
•Writing computer programs
•Working with databases
•Simulating outcomes
•Performing regression analysis
•Solving constrained optimization problemsBusiness/Human Resources (BBA/
MSHR)
The ﬁve-year BBA/MS degree program provides focused and high-
achieving undergraduate study. The program is designed for students
intent upon building their resumes, skill sets, and business judgment.
You'll have the chance to earn both undergraduate and graduate degrees
in a compressed time frame.
Related Programs
Major
•Human Resource Management (BBA)  (p. 775)
Combined
•Business/Business Analytics (BBA/MS)  (p. 1039 )
•Business/Marketing (BBA/MSM)  (p. 1047 )
Curriculum
All Quinlan School of Business students must complete the University
Core Curriculum, Business Core Curriculum, and Undergraduate School of
Business program requirements.
Code Title Hours
BBA RequirementsCOMM 103Business & Professional Speaking3
MATH 110 Business Precalculus 13-4
or MATH 130 Business CalculusETHC 341Ethics in Business3
QUIN 101 Business Learning and Careers 0QUIN 102Financial Literacy and Well-Being1
Two (2) Writing Intensive Courses  26Global Awareness Course  33
Any business course from the International Business Major Group,
or: (p. 1045 )ANTH 100Globalization and Local CulturesANTH 102 Culture, Society, and DiversityENTR 313Entrepreneurship - Global Opportunity ScanGLST 101 Introduction to Global StudiesPLSC 102International Relations in an Age of GlobalizationBusiness Core CurriculumACCT 201Introductory Accounting I3
ACCT 202 Introductory Accounting II 3INFS 343Business Analytics3or ECON 346Econometrics
ECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics 3ECON 202Principles of Macroeconomics3
FINC 301 Introductory Business Finance 3
or FINC 334 Principles of Corporate FinanceISSCM 241Business Statistics3or STAT 103Fundamentals of Statistics
INFS 247 Business Information Systems 3SCMG 332Operations Management3
LREB 315 Law and the Regulatory Environment of Business I 3MGMT 201Managing People and Organizations3

--- Page 1014 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1045
MGMT 304 Strategic Management 3MARK 201Principles of Marketing3
MSHR RequirementsRequired CoursesHRER 413 Compensation 3HRER 418Human Resources Law3
HRER 422 Global HR Management 3HRER 429Human Resource Development3
HRER 462 Employment Relations 3HRER 463Stafﬁng3
HRER 490 Analytical Problem Solving 3HRER 501Performance Management3
ETHC 441N Business Ethics 3
or MGMT 446 International Business EthicsElectivesSelect three of the following:  49HRER 453Incentive Pay and Employee Beneﬁt Programs 5HRER 417N Managing and Motivating in the WorkplaceHRER 430Leading Change in OrganizationsHRER 433 Group Process and FacilitationHRER 498Independent StudyHRER 500 Special Topics in Human Resources and
Employment RelationsHRER 502Global Employment RelationsInternshipHRER 415Internship 61Total Hours95
1Students majoring in Economics or Finance should take  MATH 130
Business Calculus  (or MATH 131 Applied Calculus I  or MATH 161
Calculus I ).  All other students take  MATH 110 Business
Precalculus  (or MATH 131 Applied Calculus I ).
2One of which must be a Quinlan course or  ENGL 210 Business Writing
3A study abroad experience will also satisfy this requirement.
4Up to 1 elective may be a non-HRER graduate business course.
5Students interested in sitting for the Society for Human Resource Management
certification exams are advised to take HRER 453  as one of their three
electives.
6Students with less than three years of HR experience are required to
take HRER 415  in addition to the 12 required courses for the M.S. in Human
Resources.
International Business Major Group 
Code Title Hours
ACCT 306 Advanced Financial Accounting 3ECON 323International Economics3
ECON 324 International Monetary Relations 3ECON 325Economics of Growth & Development3
FINC 355 International Finance Management 3HRER 329Global HR and Organizational Behavior3
IBUS 201 Introduction to International Business 3IBUS 201HBusiness Management: A Global and Social
Perspective3
IBUS 315 International Management 3INFS 336Global Perspectives on Digital Business3
MARK 363 International Marketing 3SCMG 338Global Transportation3
SPRT 345 Globalization of Sport Industry 3
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as

--- Page 1015 ---
1046  Business/Human Resources (BBA/MSHR)
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progressthrough the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
Learning Outcomes for the MSHR
•Understand the theoretical and practical demands of HR professional
career and human relations requirements of being an effective
manager; both of which involve attracting, engaging, and retaining
talented employees.
•Develop and administer human resource strategies, programs
and policies in the speciﬁc functional areas including talent

--- Page 1016 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1047
acquisition/stafﬁng (including employment planning, recruitment, and
selection), HR development and training, compensation and beneﬁts,
performance management, and employment relations.
•Understand how the practice of effective human resource
management can positively impact the business and result in a
competitive advantage to the organization.
•Utilize critical thinking skills which involve complex human behavior
and motivation.
•Appreciate of the value and methods for sustaining employee
diversity including a global perspective as it relates to human
resources.
•Develop research, written, and oral communications skills by
preparing in-depth case presentations and reports.
•Appreciate ethical perspectives and support sustainable outcomes
with respect to all aspects of HR management.
Business/Marketing (BBA/MSM)
The ﬁve-year BBA/MS degree program provides focused and high-
achieving undergraduate study. The program is designed for students
intent upon building their resumes, skill sets, and business judgment.
You'll have the chance to earn both undergraduate and graduate degrees
in a compressed time frame.
Related Programs
Combined
•Business Analytics (MBA/MS)  (p. 2209 )
•Business/Business Analytics (BBA/MS)  (p. 1039 )
•Business/Human Resources (BBA/MSHR)  (p. 1044 )
Curriculum
All Quinlan School of Business students must complete the University
Core Curriculum, Business Core Curriculum, and Undergraduate School of
Business program requirements.
Code Title Hours
BBA RequirementsCOMM 103Business & Professional Speaking3
MATH 110 Business Precalculus 13-4
or MATH 130 Business CalculusETHC 341Ethics in Business3
QUIN 101 Business Learning and Careers 0QUIN 102Financial Literacy and Well-Being1
Two (2) Writing Intensive Courses  26Global Awareness Course  33
Any business course from the International Business Major Group,
or: (p. 1047 )ANTH 100Globalization and Local CulturesANTH 102 Culture, Society, and DiversityENTR 313Entrepreneurship - Global Opportunity ScanGLST 101 Introduction to Global StudiesPLSC 102International Relations in an Age of GlobalizationBusiness Core CurriculumACCT 201Introductory Accounting I3
ACCT 202 Introductory Accounting II 3INFS 343Business Analytics3or ECON 346Econometrics
ECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics 3ECON 202Principles of Macroeconomics3
FINC 301 Introductory Business Finance 3
or FINC 334 Principles of Corporate FinanceISSCM 241Business Statistics3or STAT 103Fundamentals of Statistics
INFS 247 Business Information Systems 3SCMG 332Operations Management3
LREB 315 Law and the Regulatory Environment of Business I 3MGMT 201Managing People and Organizations3
MGMT 304 Strategic Management 3MARK 201Principles of Marketing3
MSM RequirementsPrerequisiteISSCM 402N Quantitative Methods II - Statistics Primer 0Marketing CoreMARK 460 Marketing Management 3MARK 461Research Methods in Marketing3
MARK 464 Integrated Marketing Communication 3MARK 465International Marketing3
MARK 467 Consumer Behavior 3MARK 468Digital Marketing3
Ethics RequirementETHC 441NBusiness Ethics3or MGMT 446International Business EthicsTrack Requirements  (p. 1048 )15Total Hours94
1Students majoring in Economics or Finance should take  MATH 130
Business Calculus  (or MATH 131 Applied Calculus I  or MATH 161
Calculus I ).  All other students take  MATH 110 Business
Precalculus  (or MATH 131 Applied Calculus I ).
2One of which must be a Quinlan course or  ENGL 210 Business Writing
3A study abroad experience will also satisfy this requirement.
International Business Major Group  
Code Title Hours
ACCT 306 Advanced Financial Accounting 3ECON 323International Economics3
ECON 324 International Monetary Relations 3ECON 325Economics of Growth & Development3
FINC 355 International Finance Management 3HRER 329Global HR and Organizational Behavior3
IBUS 201 Introduction to International Business 3IBUS 201HBusiness Management: A Global and Social
Perspective3
IBUS 315 International Management 3INFS 336Global Perspectives on Digital Business3
MARK 363 International Marketing 3SCMG 338Global Transportation3
SPRT 345 Globalization of Sport Industry 3

--- Page 1017 ---
1048  Business/Marketing (BBA/MSM)
Track Requirements
MSM students choose one of the following three tracks:
•Digital Marketing Analytics (STEM-designated)
•Integrated Marketing Communications
•Supply Chain (STEM-designated)
All three tracks have a 12-course curriculum with one prerequisite course.
Digital Marketing Analytics Track
The  STEM-designated  Digital Marketing Analytics track is devoted to
engaging emerging capabilities built on the foundation of creative, digital,
and analytical marketing skill sets.
Combining business goals with marketing decisions, this increasingly
critical marketing function leverages consumer, retail, and category trend
data to help marketers make informed marketing and business decisions
through database models, improved sales forecasting, and data-driven
tactics that enhance consumer loyalty, market share, and proﬁtability.
TRACK CURRICULUM
Code Title Hours
Track RequirementsINFS 492Database Systems 13
MARK 562 Database Marketing Strategy 3Track ElectivesSelect three of the following: 9MARK 661Customer AnalyticsINFS 494 Applied Data Mining and Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI)
1INFS 590Global Strategy and Data 1INFS 592 Data Visualization 1INFS 796Data Warehousing 1ISSCM 495Forecasting Methods with Artiﬁcial Intelligence
(AI) 1Total Hours15
1Upon completion of INFS 492 Database Systems , INFS 494 Applied
Data Mining and Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI) , INFS 796 Data Warehousing
and any other two annotated courses, the student will earn a Business
Analytics Certiﬁcate.
Integrated Marketing Communications Track
TRACK CURRICULUM
Code Title Hours
Track ElectivesSelect ﬁve of the following:15
MARK 463 Sales and Strategic LeadershipMARK 561Comparative Consumer BehaviorMARK 562 Database Marketing StrategyMARK 564Brand Equity and Marketing StrategyMARK 566 Integrated Media PlanningMARK 567Customer Relationship ManagementMARK 568 Social Media & Content MarketingMARK 569Special TopicsMARK 661 Customer AnalyticsMARK 662Marketing MetricsMGMT 482Entrepreneurial MarketingTotal Hours15
PURSUING INTERNET OR DATABASE MARKETING
Students interested in careers in Internet or database marketing are
encouraged to consider courses in e-commerce, data warehousing, or
related areas from the extensive offerings in Loyola's highly respected
masters’ degree program in information systems analytics.
Supply Chain Track
An efﬁcient supply chain allows for a  marketing  strategy to be
successfully  implemented . The  STEM- designated  Supply Chain
track  intertwines marketing and supply chain; giving you the
skills to  move products from supplier to customer while also
managing  service operations.  You’ll  learn advanced techniques in
inventory management,  purchasing  management, global  logistics,  and
supply chain analytics .
TRACK CURRICULUM
Code Title Hours
Track RequirementSCMG 480Intro to Operations Management3
Track ElectivesSelect four of the following:12
ISSCM 484N Project ManagementISSCM 495Forecasting Methods with Artiﬁcial Intelligence
(AI)SCMG 481 Performance Improvement in Business ProcessesSCMG 482Lean Production Concepts and PracticesSCMG 483 Management of Service OperationsSCMG 486Global Logistics 1SCMG 487 Purchasing Management 1SCMG 488Inventory Management 1SCMG 489Supply Chain AnalyticsTotal Hours15
1Upon completion of this course and one additional supply chain track
elective, the student will earn a Supply Chain Fundamentals Certiﬁcate.
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.

--- Page 1018 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1049
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the

--- Page 1019 ---
1050  Business/Supply Chain Management (BBA/MSSCM)
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
Learning Outcomes for the MSM
As a Quinlan MSM student, you will:
•Develop the creative and strategic skills you need to lead and
innovate in the diverse, digital, and dynamic ﬁeld of marketing
•Learn marketing strategies that deliver brand growth and
a competitive advantage in a time of sweeping economic,
environmental, and social change
•Gain the technical business skills that are essential in today’s global
economy
•Learn to ask the questions that are important to humanity as you
harness the power of marketing to promote positive social change
•You will also build a strong foundation in: Marketing
ﬁnance; Strategic planning; Brand leadership; Digital and
social content development; Leadership and ethics; Database
analytics; Sustainable business leadership; and Global campaign
development
Business/Supply Chain Management
(BBA/MSSCM)
The ﬁve-year BBA/MS degree program provides focused and high-
achieving undergraduate study. The program is designed for students
intent upon building their resumes, skill sets, and business judgment.
You'll have the chance to earn both undergraduate and graduate degrees
in a compressed time frame.Related Programs
Major
•Supply Chain Management (BBA)  (p. 793)
Combined
•Business/Accountancy (BBA/MSA)  (p. 1035 )
•Business/Business Analytics (BBA/MS)  (p. 1039 )
Curriculum
All Quinlan School of Business students must complete the University
Core Curriculum, Business Core Curriculum, and Undergraduate School of
Business program requirements.
Code Title Hours
BBA RequirementsCOMM 103Business & Professional Speaking3
MATH 110 Business Precalculus 13-4
or MATH 130 Business CalculusETHC 341Ethics in Business3
QUIN 101 Business Learning and Careers 0QUIN 102Financial Literacy and Well-Being1
Two (2) Writing Intensive Courses  26Global Awareness Course  33
Any business course from the International Business Major Group,
or: (p. 1051 )ANTH 100Globalization and Local CulturesANTH 102 Culture, Society, and DiversityENTR 313Entrepreneurship - Global Opportunity ScanGLST 101 Introduction to Global StudiesPLSC 102International Relations in an Age of GlobalizationBusiness Core CurriculumACCT 201Introductory Accounting I3
ACCT 202 Introductory Accounting II 3INFS 343Business Analytics3or ECON 346Econometrics
ECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics 3ECON 202Principles of Macroeconomics3
FINC 301 Introductory Business Finance 3
or FINC 334 Principles of Corporate FinanceISSCM 241Business Statistics3or STAT 103Fundamentals of Statistics
INFS 247 Business Information Systems 3SCMG 332Operations Management3
LREB 315 Law and the Regulatory Environment of Business I 3MGMT 201Managing People and Organizations3
MGMT 304 Strategic Management 3MARK 201Principles of Marketing3
MSSCM RequirementsRequired CoursesINFS 443 Business Analytics 3ISSCM 495Forecasting Methods with Artiﬁcial Intelligence
(AI)3
SCMG 480 Intro to Operations Management 43

--- Page 1020 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1051SCMG 486Global Logistics3
SCMG 487 Purchasing Management 3SCMG 488Inventory Management3
SCMG 489 Supply Chain Analytics 3Ethics RequirementSelect one of the following:ETHC 441NBusiness EthicsMGMT 446 International Business EthicsINFS 795Ethics and Data Analytics 5ElectivesSelect three (or four, if SCMG 480 is substituted)9
FINC 620 Financial Mathematics and Modeling IINFS 492Database SystemsINFS 493 Database AnalyticsINFS 494Applied Data Mining and Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI)INFS 592 Data VisualizationINFS 791Programming for Business Decision MakingINFS 795 Ethics and Data Analytics 5INFS 796Data WarehousingINFS 797 Applications of VisualizationISSCM 484NProject ManagementISSCM 595N Decision AnalysisMGMT 573Business Strategyor MGMT 574Corporate Strategy
SCMG 481 Performance Improvement in Business ProcessesSCMG 482Lean Production Concepts and PracticesSCMG 483 Management of Service OperationsCapstone CourseSCMG 589Supply Chain Management Consulting 63Total Hours91
1Students majoring in Economics or Finance should take  MATH 130
Business Calculus  (or MATH 131 Applied Calculus I  or MATH 161
Calculus I ).  All other students take  MATH 110 Business
Precalculus  (or MATH 131 Applied Calculus I ).
2One of which must be a Quinlan course or  ENGL 210 Business Writing
3A study abroad experience will also satisfy this requirement.
4This course can be substituted with a program elective by the
approval of the academic director and depending on the academic
background. Typically, you need to have completed a minimum of one
undergraduate course (3 credit hours) of comparable content in the
subject area within the last ﬁve years with a grade of B (or equivalent)
or higher if the course is determined appropriate by their academic
advisor.
5INFS 795  may be taken to fulﬁll the Ethics requirement  OR the Electives
requirement, not both.
6All required courses must be completed prior to or concurrently
with  SCMG 589 .
International Business Major Group  
Code Title Hours
ACCT 306 Advanced Financial Accounting 3ECON 323International Economics3
ECON 324 International Monetary Relations 3ECON 325Economics of Growth & Development3FINC 355 International Finance Management 3HRER 329Global HR and Organizational Behavior3
IBUS 201 Introduction to International Business 3IBUS 201HBusiness Management: A Global and Social
Perspective3
IBUS 315 International Management 3INFS 336Global Perspectives on Digital Business3
MARK 363 International Marketing 3SCMG 338Global Transportation3
SPRT 345 Globalization of Sport Industry 3
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s

--- Page 1021 ---
1052  Business/Supply Chain Management (BBA/MSSCM)
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while

--- Page 1022 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1053
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
Learning Outcomes for the MSSCM
•Technical Knowledge: Graduates will be proﬁcient in advanced
knowledge of supply chain management and methodologies for
optimization, transportation, inventory, purchasing management,
supply chain analytics, and risk analysis. This comprehensive skill set
will enable them to become effective leaders capable of optimizing
operations and making informed decisions in a dynamic business
environment.
•Critical Decision Making: Graduates will become adept at assessing
risks, identifying opportunities for improvement, and devising
innovative strategies to enhance supply chain efﬁciency and overall
performance. Equipped with strong critical thinking skills, graduates
will be well-prepared to tackle the complexities and uncertainties
inherent in supply chain operations, contributing to the success and
competitiveness of the organizations they serve.
•Ethics and Responsible Leadership: Graduates will understand how
to be a leader in business who exhibits personal integrity, ethical
awareness, and an ability to apply ethical principles to business
practice.
•Global Perspective and Awareness of Diversity: Graduates will have a
global perspective by recognizing international business issues and
appreciating diversity, including culture, race, religion, and gender.
•Communication: Graduates will be able to communicate effectively,
orally and in writing.
Chemistry (BS/MS)
The BS/MS program in Chemistry allows currently Loyola University
Chicago undergraduate students to obtain both a Bachelor’s and Master’s
degree in a compressed time period. This program structure is beneﬁcial
for those planning to take a gap year between undergraduate graduation,
medical school, dental school, or other higher education. The research
experience and courses with faculty you know and love allow you to build
the references that will help you successfully transition to your next step.
Your coursework keeps your chemical intuition sharp when preparing for
admissions tests.
Related Programs
Combined
•Biochemistry (BS/MS)  (p. 1006 )
Curriculum
Students complete the bachelor's degree, but also take two graduate
courses as undergraduates their senior year that count toward both their
Bachelor’s and Master’s degree. By doing so, the additional graduate
courses can be ﬁnished in a single year for this Accelerated Bachelor's/
Master's program.
Chemistry is taking a modern, integrated approach to foundational
coursework.
•Aligns with the latest American Chemical Society (ACS) and American
Association of Medical Colleges (AAMC) standards & guidelines
•Themes: structure-activity relationships; culture and practice
of science; energy; polymers, proteins, and macromolecules;sustainability; chemical synthesis, puriﬁcation, characterization, and
analysis.
•With such knowledge and skills, you should be prepared to further
excel in upper-level coursework that specializes your work in the
speciﬁc major you have chosen.
In addition to the required courses listed below, CHEM 300 Undergraduate
Research  is strongly recommended. Credit hours earned in  CHEM 300
Undergraduate Research  or CHEM 380 Chemistry Seminar  do not count
as elective hours satisfying the BS degree requirement. Both  CHEM 300
Undergraduate Research  and  CHEM 380 Chemistry Seminar  are required
for Departmental honors. The CHEM-BS degree is accredited by the
American Chemical Society.
Code Title Hours
BS RequirementsChemistry Courses RequiredCHEM 160 Chemical Structure and Properties 3CHEM 161Chemical Structure and Properties Laboratory1
CHEM 180 Chemical Reactivity I 3CHEM 181Chemical Reactivity I Lab1
CHEM 240 Chemical Reactivity II 3CHEM 242Chemical Synthesis Laboratory2
CHEM 260 Quantitative Methods in Chemistry 3CHEM 272Analytical Chemistry Laboratory2
CHEM 280 Environmental & Chemical Analysis 3CHEM 301Physical Chemistry I3
CHEM 302 Physical Chemistry II 3CHEM 303Physical Chemistry Lab I2
CHEM 370 Biochemistry I 3CHEM 314Instrumental Analysis4
CHEM 340 Advanced Inorganic Chemistry 3CHEM 341Advanced Inorganic Laboratory1
Two (2) CHEM Electives 6Physics Courses RequiredPHYS 121 College Physics I with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3PHYS 122College Physics II with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3
PHYS 111L College Physics Laboratory I 1PHYS 112LCollege Physics Lab II1
Math Courses RequiredMATH 161Calculus I4
MATH 162 Calculus II 4STAT 203Introduction to Probability & Statistics3
MS Requirements 30Course-Based MS in ChemistryCHEM 401 Chemistry Methodology and CommunicationSelect four (4) from the followingCHEM 424 Molecular Characterization Part ACHEM 435Special Topics in Physical ChemistryCHEM 445 Special Topics in Inorganic ChemistryCHEM 455Special Topics in Analytical ChemistryCHEM 465 Special Topics in BiochemistryCHEM 480Chemistry for Teachers I

--- Page 1023 ---
1054  Chemistry (BS/MS)
Chemistry Research (no more than 3 credit hours)400-Level CHEM Electives (15 credit hours)  1Thesis-Based MS in ChemistryCHEM 401Chemistry Methodology and CommunicationSelect one of the following:CHEM 424Molecular Characterization Part ACHEM 435 Special Topics in Physical ChemistryCHEM 445Special Topics in Inorganic ChemistryCHEM 455 Special Topics in Analytical ChemistryCHEM 465Special Topics in BiochemistryRequired 12 credit hours in one of the followingCHEM 429Research in Organic ChemistryCHEM 439 Research in Physical ChemistryCHEM 449Research in Inorganic ChemistryCHEM 459 Research in Analytical ChemistryCHEM 469Research in BiochemistrySelect any four courses from any area of concentration: Organic,
Inorganic, Physical, Analytical, Education. (12 credit hours)
(p. 1054 )CHEM 605Master's StudyCHEM 595Thesis SupervisionTotal Hours95
1Elective courses can be distributed or in a specialized area as
determined by student. A list of all 400 level Chemistry courses can be
found  here  (p. 1565 ).
•Core requirements  (p. 1405 )
•Please visit  http://www.luc.edu/cas/
academics_degreerequirements.shtml#college  (https://www.luc.edu/
cas/academics_degreerequirements.shtml/#college ) to view other
CAS requirements.
•For chemistry course descriptions and pre and co-requisite
information, please visit  here  (p. 317).
All chemistry majors are assigned a chemistry faculty advisor. Please
meet with your advisor on a regular basis, at least twice a year, for
assistance with your chemistry schedule, research possibilities, graduate
school information and more. If you do not know who your advisor is
please call the chemistry department at 773/508-3100 or come to the
department ofﬁce located in Flanner Hall room 125.
MS Areas of Specialization
Code Title Hours
AnalyticalCHEM 455Special Topics in Analytical Chemistry 13
BiochemistryCHEM 465Special Topics in Biochemistry 23
CHEM 470 Biochemistry I 3EducationCHEM 480 Chemistry for Teachers I 3InorganicCHEM 441 Advanced Inorganic Chemistry 3CHEM 445Special Topics in Inorganic Chemistry 33
OrganicCHEM 423Medicinal Chemistry3
CHEM 424 Molecular Characterization Part A 3CHEM 425Special Topics in Organic Chemistry 43
PhysicalCHEM 435Special Topics in Physical Chemistry 53
1Topics can include Archeometry and Adv Analytical Chemistry.
2Topics can include:  Plant Biochemistry; The Chemistry of Enzymes;
Biochemistry of Lipids; Adv Approaches in Biochemistry; Adv Enzyme
Kinetics and Mechanisms; Molecular Immunology; Biochemistry of
Renewable Energy; and Proteomics.
3Topics can include:  Medicinal Inorganic Chemistry; Electron & X-Ray
Methods; and Molecular Characterization Part B.
4Topics can include:  Orgo Structure Determination; Strategy & Tactics
of Org Chem; Func Dyes Biomed Imaging; Avd Orgo-Synthesis and
Mech; Comp Organomet Chem; and Advanced Organic Synthesis.
5Topics can include:  Exp Tech of Surface Science; Survey of Modern
Physical Chem; Surface Chem and Analysis; Thermodynam/Protein
Structures; and Computational Chemistry.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Students  not placing in  MATH 118 Precalculus II  or higher cannot start
the Chemistry sequence until  MATH 117 Precalculus I  is completed with
a grade of C- or better. Such students are advised to enroll in ﬁrst-year
Chemistry courses in the summer sessions (after meeting the math
requirement) in order to complete the major in four years.
Course Title Hours
Freshman
Fall
CHEM 160 Chemical Structure and Properties 3CHEM 161Chemical Structure and Properties
Laboratory1MATH 161Calculus I4 Hours8
Spring
CHEM 180 Chemical Reactivity I 3CHEM 181Chemical Reactivity I Lab1MATH 162Calculus II4 Hours8
Sophomore
Fall
CHEM 240 Chemical Reactivity II 3CHEM 242Chemical Synthesis Laboratory2
PHYS 121 College Physics I with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3PHYS 111LCollege Physics Laboratory I1STAT 203Introduction to Probability & Statistics3 Hours12
Spring
CHEM 260 Quantitative Methods in Chemistry 3

--- Page 1024 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1055CHEM 272Analytical Chemistry Laboratory2
PHYS 122 College Physics II with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3PHYS 112LCollege Physics Lab II1 Hours9
Junior
FallCHEM 280Environmental & Chemical Analysis3
CHEM 301 Physical Chemistry I 3CHEM 370Biochemistry I3 Hours9
SpringCHEM 302Physical Chemistry II3
CHEM 303 Physical Chemistry Lab I 2CHEM 314Instrumental Analysis 14 Hours9
Senior
FallCHEM 340Advanced Inorganic Chemistry3
CHEM 341 Advanced Inorganic Laboratory 1Elective3 Hours7
Spring400-Level CHEM Course3
400-Level CHEM Course 3Elective3 Hours9
Master'sComplete requirements of MS degree in consultation with
Graduate Program Director.24 Hours24 Total Hours95
1Capstone Course: CHEM 314 Instrumental Analysis  for Junior or Senior
year
CHEM 300 Undergraduate Research  and  CHEM 380 Chemistry
Seminar  are strongly recommended and required to receive Departmental
Honors with graduation. Credit hours earned in  CHEM 300 Undergraduate
Research  and/or  CHEM 380 Chemistry Seminar  do not count as elective
hours satisfying the CHEM-BS degree requirement.  CHEM 361 Principles
of Biochemistry  does not count towards the CHEM-BS degree.
Mathematics Preparedness for Chemistry
Students intending to register for a chemistry course will need
a background in mathematics that is commensurate with the
computational requirements of the chemistry course. Evidence of
math preparedness is obtained from results of the ACT/SAT and of
a Mathematics Placement Assessment (MPA) administered by the
College in conjunction with the Department of Mathematics and
Statistics. Students who are found to be mathematically under prepared
are required to pass the appropriate course or sequence of courses
in mathematics with a grade of "C-" or better before they register for a
chemistry course. More information regarding placement by ACT/SAT
and the MPA can be found at  http://www.luc.edu/math/placement/ .Thesis Requirement
In addition to coursework, students in Thesis-based MS in Chemi stry
will write and defend a research thesis. Once students have completed
coursework and are solely working on the thesis they will be enrolled in
the appropriate study or supervision course to maintain good standing in
the university.
College of Arts and Sciences Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences are
required to take two Writing Intensive courses (6 credit hours) as well as
complete a foreign language requirement at 102-level or higher (3 credit
hours) or a language competency test.  More information can be found
here  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program

--- Page 1025 ---
1056  Chemistry (BS/MS)
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program shouldbegin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•answer knowledge and comprehension type questions related to
fundamental chemical concepts and demonstrate fluency with
basic facts, terminology, and principles in the various subﬁelds of
chemistry.

--- Page 1026 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1057
•understand and describe the chemical basis of life, our natural
resources and environments, and the universe.
•retrieve, research, synthesize, and critically evaluate scientiﬁc
literature.
•design and implement experiments that test predictive hypotheses,
gather relevant data, analyze results, and interpret the signiﬁcance of
these results.
•operate state of the art equipment used by chemists and
biochemists.
•engage in scientiﬁc reasoning with claims based on supported
evidence and communicate effectively results and interpretations of
scientiﬁc research.
Communication Studies/
Environmental Science and
Sustainability (BA/MS)
Loyola’s School of Communication, in partnership with the School of
Environmental Sustainability, offers a program that enables students
to earn an undergraduate and graduate degree in environmental
communication in ﬁve years.
The Accelerated Bachelor's to Master's program allows SOC students to
earn their undergraduate degree in their declared major, plus a master’s
degree in Environmental Science and Sustainability.
Similarly, SES students can earn their undergraduate degree in
their declared major, while also earning a master’s degree from the
SOC in either the Digital Media and Storytelling or Global Strategic
Communication graduate programs.
The two schools developed the Accelerated Bachelor's to
Master's program to train environmental scientists to be better
communicators, and communication professionals to better understand
environmental science.
These 4+1 programs are uniquely applied and strongly interdisciplinary.
They integrate basic science concepts, communication theory and
practice, and socio-cultural dimensions to cultivate the interdisciplinary
problem-solving and communication skills necessary for developing
sustainable solutions. The goals of these programs are to:
•Educate students across the sciences, social sciences and
humanities, providing knowledge and interdisciplinary perspectives
needed to effectively address complex environmental problems
through grounding in solid scientiﬁc understanding of ecosystem
operation.
•Develop skills in environmental and sustainability sciences including
GIS, sustainability tracking, and environmental communications
as well as important professional skills, such as interdisciplinary
thinking, systems thinking, research design, data collection, data
analysis, research ethics, technical writing, and communication.
•Improve communication skills by teaching students how to tell
stories through enhanced speaking and presentation methods, better
writing, video production, recording podcasts, developing blogs and
social media.
•Prepare students for advancement in careers in the public and private
sectors, including in government agencies, consulting ﬁrms, media
organizations, businesses, and not-for-proﬁt organizations.For more information, email:   LoyolaSOC@luc.edu
Related Programs
Major
•Communication Studies (BA)  (p. 823)
Minor
•Communication Studies Minor  (p. 825)
•Environmental Communication Minor  (p. 826)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
BA RequirementsSOC Foundation CoursesCOMM 100 SOC Career Prep Seminar 1COMM 175Introduction to Communication3
COMM 200 Digital Communication and Society 3COMM 215Ethics & Communication3
Theory/Critical AnalysisSelect two of the following:6
COMM 201 Media Theory and CriticismCOMM 220Introduction to RhetoricCOMM 227 Social Justice & CommunicationCOMM 258Game StudiesCOMM 268 PersuasionCOMM 272Intercultural CommunicationCOMM 273 Interpersonal CommunicationCOMM 277Organizational CommunicationCOMM 280 Media Technology & SocietyCOMM 281Communication, Language & GenderCOMM 379 Digital SustainabilityAppliedSelect two of the following: 6COMM 230Argumentation & AdvocacyCOMM 231 Conflict Management and CommunicationCOMM 234Interviewing for CommunicationCOMM 236 Persuasive PresentationsCOMM 237Small Group CommunicationCOMM 306 Environmental AdvocacyCOMM 307Communication & Social MovementsCOMM 309 Designing Media for Social ChangeCOMM 323Remixing CultureResearch Methods/CapstoneSelect one of the following:3
COMM 361 New Media CriticismCOMM 365Naturalistic Methods Communication ResearchCOMM 367 Rhetorical CriticismCOMM 368Ethnographic Research Methods in
CommunicationCommunication & CommunitySelect one of the following:3
COMM 204 Community as Story

--- Page 1027 ---
1058  Communication Studies/Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)COMM 227Social Justice & CommunicationCOMM 237 Small Group CommunicationCOMM 320Public Service CommunicationCOMM 339 Video DocumentaryCOMM 381Communication PracticumCOMM 393 Communication Studies InternshipElectivesElectives can be selected from any of the above courses not taken to
fulﬁll a requirement, or any COMM courses offered.12MS RequirementsRequired MS Courses  16ENVS 401Sustainable Systems - Natural Science
PerspectivesENVS 402 Sustainable Systems - Social Science PerspectivesChoose One of Four Concentrations:  29-12
Environmental Law & PolicyENVS 410Introduction to Environmental Law & PolicyENVS 411 Natural Resources and Land Use Law & PolicyENVS 412Water Law & PolicyENVS 413 Energy Law & PolicyGeographic Information SystemsENVS 480 Introduction to Geographic Information SystemsENVS 481Advanced GIS ApplicationsENVS 482 Remote SensingSustainable Assessment and PlanningENVS 451 Introduction to Sustainability Concepts & ImpactsENVS 452Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IENVS 453 Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IIENVS 454Sustainability Plan Development & ReportingSustainable BusinessENVS 433Introduction to the Circular EconomyENVS 435 Ecological EconomicsENVS 436Design for Circular & Sustainable BusinessENVS 463 Sustainable Business ManagementNatural Science and Quantitative Sustainable Society and Business
Electives  (p. 1058 ) 36-9Students will take at least two courses from the list of electivesTotal Hours64
1ENVS 401 Sustainable Systems - Natural Science Perspectives  and
ENVS 402 Sustainable Systems - Social Science Perspectives  to be
taken as an undergrad.
2Begin MS program full-time at the start with the concentration work.
3Students choosing the Geographical Information Systems track must
take an additional elective course to meet a total of 24 credit hours for
the MS.
MS Natural Science and Quantitative & Sustainable
Society and Business Electives
Code Title Hours
BIOL 470 Biostats & Exp Design Lec/Lab 4ENVS 420Conservation Biology3
ENVS 422 Invasive Species 3ENVS 425Sustainable Agriculture3
ENVS 426 Agroecosystems 3ENVS 427Food Systems Analysis3
ENVS 430 Restoration Ecology 3ENVS 438Climate Change and Human Health3
ENVS 469 Field Ornithology 3ENVS 484Conservation Economics3
ENVS 487 Principles of Ecotoxicology 3ENVS 4883
ENVS 489 Ecological Risk Assessment 3MPBH 401Environmental Health3
MPBH 403 Introduction to Epidemiology 3MPBH 404Biostatistics for Health and Biological Science3
MPBH 409 Biostatistics I 3MPBH 412Intro to Statistical Computing for Public Health1-3
MPBH 421 Biostatistics II 3MPP 401Analytical Tools in Public Policy3
MPP 402 Cost Beneﬁt Analysis 3MPP 403Public Budget and Finance3
MPP 405 Statistical Methods & Analysis for Public Policy I 3MPP 406Statistical Methods & Analysis Public Policy II3
SOCL 414 Statistical Methods Analysis I 3SOCL 415Statistical Methods of Analysis II3
STAT 403 SAS Program & Applied Statistics 3STAT 407Statistical Design3
STAT 408 Applied Regression Analysis 3STAT 410Categorical Data Analysis3
STAT 411 Applied Survival Analysis 3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
With MS Law & Policy Track
Course Title Hours
First Year
FallCOMM 175Introduction to Communication3 Hours3
SpringCOMM 200Digital Communication and Society3 Hours3
Second Year
Fall
COMM 215 
or COMM 360Ethics & Communication 
or Digital Media Ethics3Applied Course3Theory Course3 Hours9
Spring
Applied Course 3

--- Page 1028 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1059Theory Course3 Hours6
Third Year
FallCommunication & Community Course3
Major Elective 3COMM 100SOC Career Prep Seminar1 Hours7
SpringMajor Elective3Major Elective3 Hours6
Fourth Year
Fall
Major Elective 3ENVS 402Sustainable Systems - Social Science
Perspectives3 Hours6
SpringResearch Methods Course3ENVS 401Sustainable Systems - Natural Science
Perspectives3 Hours6
Fifth Year
Fall
ENVS 410 Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy 3ENVS 411Natural Resources and Land Use Law &
Policy3MS Major Elective3 Hours9
Spring
ENVS 412 Water Law & Policy 3ENVS 413Energy Law & Policy3MS Major Elective3 Hours9 Total Hours64
With MS Geographical Information Systems Track
Course Title Hours
First Year
FallCOMM 175Introduction to Communication3 Hours3
SpringCOMM 200Digital Communication and Society3 Hours3
Second Year
Fall
COMM 215 
or COMM 360Ethics & Communication 
or Digital Media Ethics3Applied Course3Theory Course3 Hours9Spring
Applied Course 3Theory Course3 Hours6
Third Year
FallCommunication & Community Course3
Major Elective 3COMM 100SOC Career Prep Seminar1 Hours7
SpringMajor Elective3Major Elective3 Hours6
Fourth Year
Fall
Major Elective 3ENVS 402Sustainable Systems - Social Science
Perspectives3 Hours6
SpringResearch Methods Course3ENVS 401Sustainable Systems - Natural Science
Perspectives3 Hours6
Fifth Year
Fall
ENVS 480 Introduction to Geographic Information
Systems3ENVS 481Advanced GIS Applications3MS Major Elective3 Hours9
Spring
ENVS 482 Remote Sensing 3MS Major Elective3MS Major Elective3 Hours9 Total Hours64
With MS Sustainability Assessment & Planning Track
Course Title Hours
First Year
FallCOMM 175Introduction to Communication3 Hours3
SpringCOMM 200Digital Communication and Society3 Hours3
Second Year
Fall
COMM 215 
or COMM 360Ethics & Communication 
or Digital Media Ethics3Applied Course3

--- Page 1029 ---
1060  Communication Studies/Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)Theory Course3 Hours9
Spring
Applied Course 3Theory Course3 Hours6
Third Year
FallCommunication & Community Course3
Major Elective 3COMM 100SOC Career Prep Seminar1 Hours7
SpringMajor Elective3Major Elective3 Hours6
Fourth Year
Fall
Major Elective 3ENVS 402Sustainable Systems - Social Science
Perspectives3 Hours6
SpringResearch Methods Course3ENVS 401Sustainable Systems - Natural Science
Perspectives3 Hours6
Fifth Year
Fall
ENVS 451 Introduction to Sustainability Concepts &
Impacts3ENVS 452Sustainability Assessment & Reporting I3MS Major Elective3 Hours9
Spring
ENVS 453 Sustainability Assessment & Reporting II 3ENVS 454Sustainability Plan Development &
Reporting3MS Major Elective3 Hours9 Total Hours64
With MS Sustainable Business Track
Course Title Hours
First Year
FallCOMM 175Introduction to Communication3 Hours3
SpringCOMM 200Digital Communication and Society3 Hours3Second Year
Fall
COMM 215 
or COMM 360Ethics & Communication 
or Digital Media Ethics3Applied Course3Theory Course3 Hours9
Spring
Applied Course 3Theory Course3 Hours6
Third Year
FallCommunication & Community Course3
Major Elective 3COMM 100SOC Career Prep Seminar1 Hours7
SpringMajor Elective3Major Elective3 Hours6
Fourth Year
Fall
Major Elective 3ENVS 402Sustainable Systems - Social Science
Perspectives3 Hours6
SpringResearch Methods Course3ENVS 401Sustainable Systems - Natural Science
Perspectives3 Hours6
Fifth Year
Fall
ENVS 433 Introduction to the Circular Economy 3MS Major Elective3ENVS 435Ecological Economics3 Hours9
Spring
ENVS 436 Design for Circular & Sustainable Business 3ENVS 463Sustainable Business Management3MS Major Elective3 Hours9 Total Hours64
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  

--- Page 1030 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1061
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.

--- Page 1031 ---
1062  Communication Studies/International Affairs (BA/MA)
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•Identify some of the fundamental communication issues that our
contemporary world face, and the ways in which the communication
ﬁeld approaches and interprets them.
•Identify the relationship between communication processes and
practices and the construction and transformation of human
identities, communities, and cultures.
•Use communication skills and knowledge to produce messages,
texts, campaigns, and projects.
•Understand the role that communication holds in advancing or
deterring social justice.
•Apply communication knowledge and perform communication
skills within different social contexts, such as interpersonal
communication, group communication, intercultural communication,
gender and communication, and traditional and new media platforms.
•Articulate the foundational principles of natural and social sciences
and humanities essential to solving environmental problems.
•Critically evaluate the accuracy and credibility of information relating
to environmental topics.
•Employ knowledge and skills to design and implement solutions that
contribute to a just and sustainable world.
•Exemplify the values of environmental and social justice through
actions to care for our common home and one another.SES Shared Learning Outcomes
All SES majors share the following Program Learning Objectives, in
addition to their unique major-speciﬁc Program Learning Objectives:
1. Articulate the foundational principles of natural and social sciences
and humanities essential to solving environmental problems.
2. Critically evaluate the accuracy and credibility of information relating to
environmental topics.
3. Employ knowledge and skills to design and implement solutions that
contribute to a just and sustainable world.
4. Exemplify the values of environmental and social justice through
actions to care for our common home and one another.
Communication Studies/International
Affairs (BA/MA)
The growing interconnectedness of the world’s almost 200 countries,
termed globalization, and the rising impacts of foreign affairs on our
daily lives increasingly require individuals with advanced knowledge of
International Affairs. The Accelerated BA/MA in Communication Studies
and International Affairs allows students to explore global problems
and interactions from an interdisciplinary perspective that makes use
of eight Arts and Sciences academic departments and four additional
colleges. Students will have the flexibility to tailor their program to ﬁt
their individual interests. Students can fulﬁll a capstone experience by
participating in an internship, taking a study abroad class, writing a paper
for publication, or writing a master’s thesis.
Loyola University Chicago and the City of Chicago together serve as the
ideal location for an MA in International Affairs: Loyola embodies a long
commitment to interdisciplinary education; and Chicago is consistently
ranked as one of the top ten global cities in the world. The program offers
a unique urban setting for students interested in the advanced study of
International Affairs.
The majority of full-time students are expected to ﬁnish the program
in 5 years, as opposed to the six years if both programs are pursued
separately. Undergraduate students from participating programs at
Loyola will be able to pursue an accelerated BA/MA in Communication
Studies and International Affairs.
Students will also be able to take graduate courses in the School of
Communication, the School of Education (International Education), the
School of Law, Parkinson School of Health Sciences and Public Health,
Quinlan School of Business, and the School of Social Work.
Related Programs
Major
•Communication Studies (BA)  (p. 823)
Minor
•Communication Studies Minor  (p. 825)
Combined
•Communication Studies/Environmental Science and Sustainability
(BA/MS)  (p. 1057 )

--- Page 1032 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1063
Curriculum
For the BA, students will complete requirements for the Bachelor's
degree, and graduate level courses may be used as electives. For the MA,
students will take a total of ten classes (30 credit hours) to complete the
program: Four required core classes, including a capstone experience,
and an additional six elective classes, with no more than three offered by
a single department in the College of Arts & Sciences or another School
at Loyola.
Code Title Hours
BA RequirementsSchool of Communication Foundation CoursesCOMM 100 SOC Career Prep Seminar 1COMM 175Introduction to Communication3
COMM 200 Digital Communication and Society 3COMM 215Ethics & Communication3or COMM 360Digital Media Ethics
Theory/Critical AnalysisSelect two of the following:6
COMM 201 Media Theory and CriticismCOMM 220Introduction to RhetoricCOMM 227 Social Justice & CommunicationCOMM 258Game StudiesCOMM 268 PersuasionCOMM 272Intercultural CommunicationCOMM 273 Interpersonal CommunicationCOMM 277Organizational CommunicationCOMM 280 Media Technology & SocietyCOMM 281Communication, Language & Gender 2COMM 379 Digital SustainabilityAppliedSelect two of the following: 6COMM 230Argumentation & AdvocacyCOMM 231 Conflict Management and CommunicationCOMM 234Interviewing for CommunicationCOMM 236 Persuasive PresentationsCOMM 237Small Group CommunicationCOMM 306 Environmental AdvocacyCOMM 307Communication & Social MovementsCOMM 309 Designing Media for Social ChangeCOMM 323Remixing CultureResearch Methods/CapstoneSelect one of the following:3
COMM 361 New Media Criticism 1COMM 365Naturalistic Methods Communication Research 2COMM 367 Rhetorical Criticism 1COMM 368Ethnographic Research Methods in
Communication 2Communication & CommunitySelect one of the following:3
COMM 204 Community as StoryCOMM 227Social Justice & CommunicationCOMM 237 Small Group CommunicationCOMM 320Public Service Communication 2COMM 339 Video Documentary 2COMM 381Communication PracticumCOMM 393 Communication Studies Internship 2ElectivesSelect any four (4) electives from the list of Approved Electives if not
taken to satisfy requirements above.  (p. 1063 )12International Affairs MA RequirementsCoreINTA 420Comparative Political Systems3
INTA 430 Theories of International Politics 3INTA 475Political Analysis I3
Capstone Experience 3Select one of the following:INTA 470 Fieldwork in PLSC-InternshipPLSC 499Directed ReadingsPLSC 605 Master's StudyElectives  (p. 1064 ) 318In addition to the four core classes, students will take an additional
six elective courses, with no more than three offered by a single
department in the College of Arts and Sciences or another School
at Loyola. The core INTA courses in Political Science do not count
toward this three-course total, and thus a student may take three
Political Science courses in addition to the three core (required)
courses.Total Hours70
1Writing Intensive  (p. 800)
2Satisﬁes  Engaged Learning  (p. 1417 ) requirement.
3Two Graduate-level International Affairs courses must be taken
Senior Year. These courses can count as major electives or general
electives. These two courses double-count for International Affairs MA
requirements.
 
Approved BA Electives
Code Title Hours
COMM 101 Public Speaking & Critical Thinking 3COMM 130Intro to Audio Production3
COMM 135 Intro to Video Production 3
or COMM 145 Video for JournalistsCOMM 140Intercollegiate Debate 41
COMM 201 Media Theory and Criticism 3COMM 202Story for Film and Television 13
COMM 203 Topics in Cinema History 3COMM 204Community as Story3
COMM 205 Reporting Basics I: Writing and Interviewing 13COMM 206Hip Hop Culture and Social Change3
COMM 207 Photojournalism 3COMM 208Reporting Basics II: Technology for Journalists3
COMM 210 Principles of Public Relations 3COMM 211Principles of Advertising3
COMM 213 Digital Foundations 3COMM 214Introduction to Creative Concepts 13

--- Page 1033 ---
1064  Communication Studies/International Affairs (BA/MA)
COMM 215 Ethics & Communication 3COMM 220Introduction to Rhetoric3
COMM 227 Social Justice & Communication 3COMM 230Argumentation & Advocacy3
COMM 231 Conflict Management and Communication 3COMM 232Cinematography I3
COMM 234 Interviewing for Communication 3COMM 236Persuasive Presentations3
COMM 237 Small Group Communication 3COMM 256Broadcast Newswriting 13
COMM 258 Game Studies 3COMM 259News Editing3
COMM 260 Environmental Journalism 13COMM 261Social Media3
COMM 262 Feature & Opinion Writing 13COMM 263Editorial Design I: Newspaper & Online3
COMM 265 Sports Broadcasting 3COMM 266Advertising Copywriting 13
COMM 268 Persuasion 3COMM 271Media Culture and Communication3
COMM 272 Intercultural Communication 3COMM 273Interpersonal Communication3
COMM 274 Introduction to Cinema 3COMM 275Web Design and Usability3
COMM 277 Organizational Communication 3COMM 278International Public Relations (abroad)3
COMM 280 Media Technology & Society 3COMM 281Communication, Language & Gender 23
COMM 296 Themes in Advertising/Public Relations 3COMM 297Themes in Communication Studies3
COMM 298 Themes in Multimedia Journalism 3COMM 299Themes in Film and Digital Media3
COMM 303 Media, Politics, & Propaganda 3COMM 304Rhetorics of Utopia & Revolution3
COMM 306 Environmental Advocacy 3COMM 307Communication & Social Movements3
COMM 308 Screen Directing 3COMM 309Designing Media for Social Change3
COMM 310 Production Design 3COMM 311Health Communication3
COMM 312 Special Events Planning 3COMM 313Corporate and Organizational Communication3
COMM 314 Public Relations Cases 3COMM 315Advanced Reporting Topics 1,23
COMM 317 Media Planning 3COMM 318Public Relations Writing 13
COMM 320 Public Service Communication 23COMM 321Advertising Campaigns3
COMM 322 Guerilla Media 3COMM 323Remixing Culture3
COMM 324 Film Genre 3COMM 326Screenwriting 13COMM 327 Mastering Video Reporting and Storytelling 3COMM 328Editorial Design II: Magazine & Interactive3
COMM 329 Advertising and Public Relations Design 3COMM 330Intermediate Advertising Design3
COMM 331 Social Media Advertising 3COMM 332Investigative & Public Affairs Reporting3
COMM 333 Cinematography II 3COMM 334Mobile Advertising3
COMM 336 Search & Display Advertising 3COMM 337AD/PR Multimedia Commercial Production 23
COMM 338 Narrative Production 3COMM 339Video Documentary 23
COMM 345 Student Agency 53COMM 350Producing for Film & Digital Media3
COMM 357 Programming Film & Media: Festivals, TV & Digital 3COMM 358Newscasting and Producing3
COMM 359 Advanced Post Production 3COMM 360Digital Media Ethics3
COMM 361 New Media Criticism 13COMM 365Naturalistic Methods Communication Research 23
COMM 367 Rhetorical Criticism 13COMM 368Ethnographic Research Methods in
Communication 23
COMM 370 Special Topics in Advertising & Public Relations 3COMM 371Special Topics Communication Studies3
COMM 372 Special Topics: Multimedia Journalism 3COMM 373Digital Storytelling Abroad 23
COMM 374 Special Topics: Film & Digital Media 3COMM 375Media Relations3
COMM 379 Digital Sustainability 3COMM 380Debate Practicum3
COMM 381 Communication Practicum 1-3COMM 393Communication Studies Internship 2,33
COMM 398 Directed Study 1-3
1Writing Intensive  (p. 800)
2Satisﬁes  Engaged Learning  (p. 1417 ) requirement.
3Internship  (https://www.luc.edu/soc/resources/internships/ )
4Requires instructor approval.
5Inigo  (https://www.inigocomm.com/ )
List of International Affairs MA Elective Courses
The participating programs that will contribute classes include: Global
Studies, History, Philosophy, Political Science, Psychology, Sociology,
and Theology, Criminal Justice & Criminology, as well as the Schools of
Communication, Education, Business, Law, Health Sciences and Public
Health, and Social Work.
Please note that the courses listed might not be offered every year and
new courses may be added to this list. Students should talk with the
Graduate Program Director if they want to take a course that is not on
the list of elective courses to see whether the course can serve as an
elective.

--- Page 1034 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1065
College of Arts and Sciences
Code Title Hours
Criminal Justice and Criminology DepartmentCJC 416International Criminal Justice3
Methods CoursesCJC 403Research Methods and Program Evaluation3
CJC 404 Applied Data Analysis and Interpretation 4History DepartmentHIST 441 Women's & Gender History: Europe 3HIST 459Environmental History3
HIST 464 Transnational Urban History 3Methods CoursesHIST 483 Oral History: Method and Practice 3Modern Languages and Literatures DepartmentLanguage Research Tool: Although there is no language requirement,
students interested in honing their foreign language skills will have
the option of taking a 400-level language course (i.e., a course
beyond 101, 102, 103, and 104), and having that course count as one
of the six elective courses. Current language possibilities offered at
Loyola include Chinese, French, German, Italian, and Spanish.MLL also offers graduate-level courses in Spanish as part of their
master’s degree in Spanish. These courses are as follows and would
be open only to interested students with advanced writing, speaking,
and reading skills in Spanish. These courses are as follows:SPAN 405 Critical Methods (pan-Hispanic world) 3SPAN 490Hispanic Culture & Civilization (Latin American
ﬁlm, with a focus on human rights)3
Philosophy DepartmentPHIL 459Philosophy of Law3
PHIL 463 Virtue Ethics (includes non-Western philosophy) 3PHIL TBDCritical Race Theory (originally taught as a “special
topics” course; is being turned into a permanent
course)PHIL 480 Social & Political Philosophy (focuses on global
development on a regular basis)3Methods CoursesPHIL 400 Philosophy Research Tools 3Political Science DepartmentPLSC 421 Democratic Political Systems 3PLSC 422Authoritarian Political Systems3
PLSC 431 Formulation US Foreign Policy 3PLSC 432Comparative Foreign Policy Analysis3
PLSC 433 International Organization 3PLSC 435International Political Economics3
PLSC 436 International Conflict 3Methods CoursesPLSC 401 Intro to Research Design & Method 3PLSC 476Political Analysis II3
Psychology DepartmentPSYC 460Social Psychological Theory3
PSYC 461 Attitude and Attitude Change 3PSYC 474Research in Group Dynamics3
PSYC 484 Prejudice and Intergroup Relations 3Methods CoursesPSYC 486 Methods of Program Evaluation 3Sociology DepartmentSOCL 418 Demography 3SOCL 423Social Movements3
SOCL 426 Sociology of Gender 3SOCL 441Sociology of Religion3
SOCL 447 Sociology of Culture 3SOCL 461Race & Ethnicity3
Methods CoursesSOCL 410Logic of Sociological Inquiry3
SOCL 412 Qualitative Methods in Social Research 3SOCL 414Statistical Methods Analysis I3
SOCL 415 Statistical Methods of Analysis II 3Theology DepartmentTHEO 459 Contemporary Theology 1-12THEO 460Seminar in History of Theology1-12
THEO 464 Religion & Politics in Christian History 3THEO 470Foundations Crititical Issues Theological Ethics1-12
THEO 480 Seminar in Christian Ethics 1-12
School of Education (International Education)
Code Title Hours
ELPS 405 Introduction to Educational Policy Analysis 3ELPS 448International Higher Education3
ELPS 455 Comparative Education 3ELPS 540Seminar in the History of Education3
ELPS 550 Seminar on Globalization and Education 3ELPS 555Seminar Comparative Education3
School of Communication
Code Title Hours
COMM 401 Foundations of Global Strategic Communication 3COMM 402Organizational Leadership and Change
Management3
COMM 422 Global and Multicultural Audiences and
Stakeholders3
School of Social Work
Code Title Hours
SOWK 502 Power, Oppression, Privilege, and Social Justice 3SOWK 654Global Social Work: Reflective Practice for Justice
and Peace3
SOWK 730 Immigration Dynamics and U.S. Social Policy 3SOWK 731Social Work Practice with Refugees and
Immigrants3
SOWK 732 Migration, Social Justice, and Human Rights 3SOWK 733North American Migration Dynamics, Challenges &
Opportunity1-3
School of Law 
Code Title Hours
LAW 176 International Trade Law 11-3LAW 371International Business Trans 11-3
LAW 372 International Law and Practice 3LAW 388Global Access to Medicine: A Patent Perspective3

--- Page 1035 ---
1066  Communication Studies/International Affairs (BA/MA)
LAW 459 Intro to English Legal Profession 1LAW 568European Union Law 11-3
1Explanatory note about 1, 2, 3, and variable credit hour courses from
the School of Law: “For the law courses showing a range of hours (e.g.,
1-3 credit hours), students have the option to choose the number of
credits for enrollment within the range. For students opting for the
higher credits (i.e., enrollment in 3 credit hours rather than 1 credit hour
would require additional assignments and/or an examination). If the
MA students in these courses need to be enrolled in 3 credit hours,
the following notation can be included with the course listing:  ‘MA
students must choose the 3 credit option for enrollment in this course’. ”
Please note that courses to be included in this MA program will require
students choosing the 3-credit option.
School of Law - Classes Offered at the John Felice Rome Center
Code Title Hours
PLAW 101 Comparative and Ethical Lawyering for the Rule of
Law3PLAW 102History, Theory and Practice of Rule of Law for
Development3
PLAW 103 Theory and Practice of Assessments in Rule of
Law Advising2PLAW 104International Development Architecture3
PLAW 105 Sustainable Development Through International
Commerce and Investment2PLAW 106Design of Rule of Law Programs and Proposal
Preparation2
PLAW 107 Rule of Law in Conflict Prevention and
Peacebuilding2PLAW 108Legal Systems and Methods3
PLAW 250 Research and Writing on the Rule of Law 3PLAW 907Rule of Law Project Management, Monitoring &
Evaluation3
Parkinson School of Health Sciences and Public Health
Code Title Hours
MPBH 400 Determinants of Population Health 3MPBH 414Introduction to Global Health3
MPBH 417 Global Maternal and Child Health 3MPBH 422Population Health Planning & Management3
MPBH 424 Health Economics and Healthcare Financing 3MPBH 432Health Impact Assessment3
Quinlan School of Business
Code Title Hours
ECON 424 International Business Economics 3FINC 455International Financial Management3
HRER 422 Global HR Management 3HRER 502Global Employment Relations3
MARK 465 International Marketing 3MARK 461Research Methods in Marketing3
MGMT 446 International Business Ethics 3SCMG 486Global Logistics3Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
First Year
FallCOMM 175Introduction to Communication3 Hours3
SpringCOMM 200Digital Communication and Society3 Hours3
Second Year
Fall
COMM 215 
or COMM 360Ethics & Communication 
or Digital Media Ethics3Applied Course3Theory Course3 Hours9
Spring
Applied Course 3Theory Course3 Hours6
Third Year
FallCommunication & Community Course3
Major Elective 3COMM 100SOC Career Prep Seminar1 Hours7
SpringMajor Elective3Major Elective3 Hours6
Fourth Year
Fall
Major Elective 3Two (2) International Affairs Courses  16 Hours9
SpringResearch Methods Course3Two (2) International Affairs Courses  16 Hours9
Fifth Year
FallThree (3) International Affairs Courses  19 Hours9

--- Page 1036 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1067
SpringThree (3) International Affairs Courses  19 Hours9 Total Hours70
1Students are expected to take two graduate-level courses in each
semester of their senior year and a total of six graduate-level courses
in their ﬁfth year. There is no required course sequence, but we strongly
suggest that students ﬁrst take the required courses ( PLSC 420
Comparative Political Systems , PLSC 430 Theories of International
Politics , and PLSC 475 Political Analysis I ) whenever they are offered
before taking elective courses.
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted asan undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress

--- Page 1037 ---
1068  Computer Science (BS/MS)
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
Students will graduate from our program having achieved:
•a foundation for understanding and critiquing research related to
International Affairs, including methods training that leverages both
qualitative and quantitative data [International Affairs]•knowledge of the principal theories of comparative politics and
international relations, as well as the key areas of research in these
two subﬁelds [International Affairs]
•an interdisciplinary understanding and appreciation of International
Affairs through coursework available within eight different
departments in the College of Arts and Sciences and four additional
Schools at Loyola [International Affairs]
•enhanced writing and critical thinking skills and dispositions through
class-based projects and a capstone experience [International Affairs]
•strengthened methods, research, or writing skills tailored to students
interests with advanced methods courses, language training, or the
writing of a master’s thesis. [International Affairs]
•Identify some of the fundamental communication issues that our
contemporary world face, and the ways in which the communication
ﬁeld approaches and interprets them. [Communication Studies]
•Remember the situated, contextual and historical nature of
communication processes and practices. [Communication Studies]
•Identify the relationship between communication processes and
practices and the construction and transformation of human
identities, communities, and cultures. [Communication Studies]
•Assess, interpret and use communication research to apply and
generate communication knowledge. [Communication Studies]
•Use communication skills and knowledge to produce messages,
texts, campaigns, and projects. [Communication Studies]
•Formulate creative, culturally literate, and convincing oral, written,
and multimodal arguments which are responsive to context and
situation. [Communication Studies]
•See the crucial role that communication holds in advancing or
deterring social justice. [Communication Studies]
•Apply communication knowledge and perform communication
skills within different social contexts, such as interpersonal
communication, group communication, intercultural communication,
gender and communication, and traditional and new media
platforms. [Communication Studies]
Computer Science (BS/MS)
The BS/MS programs in Information Technology, Software Engineering,
and Computer Science are ﬁve-year programs that give academically
successful Loyola undergraduates the opportunity to pursue the MS
degree in Information Technology, Software Engineering, or Computer
Science while completing their BS degree. The applicant can be
pursuing any of the BS degrees offered by the Department of Computer
Science, including the joint majors with Mathematics or Physics or the
interdisciplinary Bioinformatics.
These programs reduce the total number of courses needed and the total
time needed for the combined degrees. Speciﬁcally, students in the BS/
MS program are allowed to “double count” 9 credits (generally three 3-
credit courses) of their Loyola COMP courses towards both their BS and
MS degrees. Each double-counted course must be a 400-level course
taken in the student’s senior year in place of a corresponding 300-level
course. This leaves a total of 21 credits (seven courses) to be taken after
completion of the Bachelors' degree.
Students may not automatically enroll in the BS/MS program
during Freshman admission. They must speciﬁcally apply to the
Graduate School, generally in their Junior year by using  The Graduate
Application Form  (https://gpem.luc.edu/apply/ ). See  Application
Requirements  (https://academics.cs.luc.edu/undergraduate/

--- Page 1038 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1069
bsmsprograms.html#application-requirements ) and  Application
Information  (https://academics.cs.luc.edu/undergraduate/
bsmsprograms.html#application-information ) for more details.
Related Programs
Combined
•Information Technology (BS/MS)  (p. 1254 )
•Software Engineering (BS/MS)  (p. 1368 )
Curriculum
The MS program requires 30 credits of graduate courses. This generally
takes one and a half years to complete. BS/MS students must also take
30 credits of courses at the 400 level or greater. The main advantages
come from the fact that some of the MS courses may be double-counted,
applying to the BS also, and there can be a shift in some of the required
MS courses based on what students took in the BS portion. In particular
students in the BS/MS program are allowed to “double count” 9 credits
(generally three 3-credit courses) of their Loyola COMP courses for both
their BS and MS degrees. Each must be a 400 level course taken in the
student’s senior year  in place  of a 300 level major course. Also, a student
wishing to take 123 or more credits while an undergraduate, can have
3 of the extra credits be for a fourth 400 level COMP course, and count
that toward the MS if the extra course is needed for  no undergraduate
requirement, from the university, college, core, major or minor. Hence a
BS/MS student with 120 credits and 9 400-level COMP credits counted
for the BS is required to take only 21 credits (instead of 30 credits) of
additional 400-level courses. If a student takes a further 3-credit 400 level
COMP course beyond the 120 credits needed for the BS, then only 18
further credits are needed. In either case, students can ﬁnish the program
in ﬁve years.
Code Title Hours
Major RequirementsMATH 131Applied Calculus I 13
or
4or MATH 161Calculus I
MATH 132 Applied Calculus II 13
or
4
or MATH 162 Calculus IICOMP 141Introduction to Computing Tools and Techniques3
COMP 163 Discrete Structures 3
or MATH 201 Introduction to Discrete Mathematics & Number
TheoryCOMP 170Introduction to Object-Oriented Programming3
COMP 264 Introduction to Computer Systems 3COMP 271Data Structures I3
COMP 272 Data Structures II 3COMP 310Operating Systems3
COMP 317 Social, Legal, and Ethical Issues in Computing 3COMP 363Design and Analysis Computer Algorithms3
COMP 371 Programming Languages 3STAT 203Introduction to Probability & Statistics3
COMP-BS Restricted ElectivesSelect nine credit hours from the following:9COMP 301 Introduction to Computer SecurityCOMP 313Object-Oriented DesignCOMP 330 Software EngineeringCOMP 332Requirements EngineeringCOMP 339 Distributed SystemsCOMP 341Human-Computer InteractionCOMP 343 Computer NetworksCOMP 353Database ProgrammingCOMP 364 High Performance ComputingCOMP 370Software QualityCOMP 379 Machine LearningPracticum CapstoneSelect six credits taken from one or more of the following:  26COMP 312Open Source Software PracticumCOMP 390 Broadening Participation in STEM (Computing,
Math & Science)COMP 391Internship in Computer ScienceCOMP 398 Independent StudyComputer Science 300-Level ElectivesCOMP 300-Level Course(s) 4Computer Science Free ElectivesSelect one of the following: 3COMP 300-Level CourseCOMP 125 Visual Information ProcessingCOMP 150Introduction to ComputingMS RequirementsCOMP 417Social and Ethical Issues in Computing3
COMP 460 Algorithms & Complexity 3Track/Major Requirements  (p. 1069 )12Four (4) COMP 400-Level Elective Courses12Total Hours82-84
1By arrangement with the Undergraduate Program Director, the extra
credits from  MATH 161 Calculus I /MATH 162 Calculus II  may be
applied towards the “Computer Science Free Electives” category.
2See the details of registering for these courses in the Computer
Science Department website resources. Students are encouraged to
complete these credits during junior and senior years to draw on prior
experience. Note:
•COMP 312  is a 3-credit course
•COMP 390  is limited to 3 total credits
•COMP 391  and  COMP 398  will usually be limited to 6 total credits
each, but permission may sometimes be granted for more.
Track/Major Requirements
No Concentration (Default)
Code Title Hours
Major RequirementsCOMP 413Intermediate Object-Oriented Development3
Select three of the following: 9COMP 410Operating SystemsCOMP 433 Web Services ProgrammingCOMP 436Markup Languages

--- Page 1039 ---
1070  Computer Science (BS/MS)
COMP 439 Distributed SystemsCOMP 442Server-Side Software DevelopmentCOMP 443 Computer NetworksCOMP 453Database ProgrammingCOMP 464 High-Performance ComputingCOMP 471Theory of Programming LanguagesCOMP 473 Advanced Object Oriented ProgrammingCOMP 474Software EngineeringTotal Hours12
Artiﬁcial Intelligence
Code Title Hours
Major RequirementsCOMP 479Machine Learning3
Select one of the following: 3COMP 429Natural Language ProcessingCOMP 487 Deep LearningCOMP 488Computer Science TopicsSelect two of the following: 6COMP 406Data MiningCOMP 429 Natural Language ProcessingCOMP 458Big Data AnalyticsCOMP 487 Deep LearningCOMP 488Computer Science TopicsTotal Hours12
Cybersecurity
Code Title Hours
Major Requirements 3COMP 401Computer Security3
Select three of the following: 9COMP 431CryptographyCOMP 440 Computer Forensics InvestigationsCOMP 445Internet of Things Device and Application SecurityCOMP 447 Intrusion Detection and Computer ForensicsCOMP 448Network SecurityCOMP 449 Wireless Networking and SecurityCOMP 452Introduction to Computer VulnerabilitiesCOMP 488Computer Science TopicsTotal Hours15
Additional Rules of the BS/MS Program
1.All students need to take  COMP 271 Data Structures I  as part of their
undergraduate major.
2.Students pursuing an MS in Software Engineering or Computer
Science must take  COMP 313 Object-Oriented Design  by their senior
year.
3.Students may take at most 6 credits total of internship at the
undergraduate and graduate level,  COMP 391 Internship in Computer
Science  plus  COMP 499 Internship .
4.A student with credit for a 300 level COMP course that was taught
in a combined class with a 400 level course may not take the 400
level course later for separate credit without permission from the
Graduate Program Director. In particular for students with credit
for COMP 317 Social, Legal, and Ethical Issues in Computing ,the MS requirement for  COMP 417 Social and Ethical Issues in
Computing  is waived, to be replaced by 3 MS elective credits.
Similarly, in programs requiring  COMP 413 Intermediate Object-
Oriented Development , COMP 313 Object-Oriented Design  will satisfy
the requirement, but still, the course will need to be replaced by 3 MS
elective credits.
5.In MS programs with restricted electives lists with two or more
courses required from a larger explicit list, one of the courses may
be waived if the corresponding 300 level undergraduate course was
successfully completed at Loyola. The course must still be replaced
by a 3-credit MS program elective.
6.All further individual MS program requirements must be met with the
inclusion of the allowed 400 level courses taken as an undergraduate.
Requirements for Completion of the BS/MS Program
After admission to the BS/MS program, a student may request to be
registered in their senior year for up to four 400 level COMP courses, with
three of them replacing undergraduate major courses, and a fourth  if the
student will graduate with at least 123 credits and not need the fourth
course as a part of  any undergraduate requirement. Students generally
take the remainder of their 30 credits of 400-level MS classes during
their ﬁfth year. This schedule can be modiﬁed for students with AP or
transfer credit who desire to ﬁnish the combined program in less than
ﬁve years. Students in the program are expected to consult regularly
with the Graduate Program Director to ensure that they are on track for
completion of both the BS and MS degrees. The following are required to
complete a BS/MS degree program:
•Successful completion of one of the BS degrees in the Department
of Computer Science or Bioinformatics or a joint major with
Mathematics or Physics
•The 400-level graduate courses, excluding those counted while an
undergraduate, completed with a GPA of 3.0 or higher
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
COMP 150 Introduction to Computing 13COMP 141Introduction to Computing Tools and
Techniques3
MATH 131 Applied Calculus I 23CORE: Philosophical Knowledge Tier 13
CORE: College Writing Seminar 3UNIV 101First Year Seminar1 Hours16
SpringCOMP 170Introduction to Object-Oriented
Programming 33
COMP 163 Discrete Structures 3MATH 132Applied Calculus II 43
CORE: Historical Knowledge Tier 1 3

--- Page 1040 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1071CORE: Ethics3 Hours15
Year 2
FallCOMP 271Data Structures I3
COMP 264 Introduction to Computer Systems 3STAT 203Introduction to Probability & Statistics 53
CORE: Theology and Religious Studies Tier 1 3CAS Language Requirement 101 level  63 Hours15
SpringCOMP 272Data Structures II3
COMP 317 Social, Legal, and Ethical Issues in
Computing3CORE: Scientiﬁc Knowledge Tier 13
CORE: Societal & Cultural Knowledge Tier 1 3CAS Language Requirement 102 level3 Hours15
Year 3
FallCOMP 363Design and Analysis Computer Algorithms3
COMP 310 Operating Systems 3COMP Free Elective1
CORE: Literary Knowledge & Experience Tier 1 3CORE: Artistic Knowledge & Experience3CORE: Philosophical Knowledge Tier 23 Hours16
Spring
COMP 371 Programming Languages 3COMP-BS Restricted Elective3
CORE: Theology and Religious Studies Tier 2 3CORE: Scientiﬁc Knowledge Tier 23CORE: Historical Knowledge Tier 23 Hours15
Year 4
Fall
COMP 400-Level Course 3COMP Practicum3
CORE: Literary Knowledge & Experience Tier 2 3CORE: Societal & Cultural Knowledge Tier 23CAS Elective3 Hours15
Spring
COMP-BS Restricted Elective 3COMP Practicum3
COMP 400-Level Course 3COMP 400-Level Course3CAS Elective3 Hours15Year 5Students complete MS requirements in consultation with the
Graduate Program Director.21 Hours21 Total Hours143
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been

--- Page 1041 ---
1072  Criminal Justice and Criminology (BS/MA)
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•Students will gain a broad background in the practical and theoretical
foundations of Computer Science.
•Students in a speciﬁc concentration will gain mastery in that area,
which students who pursue the thesis option will gain deep expe rtise
in their research area.
Criminal Justice and Criminology
(BS/MA)
BS/MA Five Year Program
The BS/MA program enables high achieving undergraduate majors to
begin fulﬁlling requirements for a master's degree while completing
the bachelor's degree. The program is designed so that students may

--- Page 1042 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1073
complete their MA degree in one year after graduating with their BS
degree rather than the traditional two years of study. BS/MA students
will have more challenging courses during their senior year of study and
will have broader career opportunities after completing the MA degree.
Successful students have obtained desired careers, gained admission to
law schools, or gained admission to PhD programs.
Loyola undergraduates with an overall GPA of 3.5 may apply for our
combined BS/MA program in their junior year. Fall admitted BS/MA
students will take 4 graduate (400 level) classes in their senior year
that will count toward both their BS degree and their MA degree. Spring
admitted BS/MA students will take 2 graduate (400 level) classes in their
senior year that will count toward both degrees. Students should save
their CJC electives so that graduate-level CJC courses can count as CJC
electives in the major. Therefore, up to 15- of the 30-credit hours needed
to successfully complete the MA degree will be completed during the
student's senior year. After graduating with their BS degree (during year
ﬁve), students will take the remaining 6 courses as a full-time graduate
student.
For additional information on this program, please contact Dr. Maribeth
Rezey, Graduate Program Director, at  mrezey@luc.edu .
Related Programs
Major
•Criminal Justice and Criminology (BS)  (p. 375)
Master's
•Criminal Justice and Criminology (MA)  (p. 1594 )
Minor
•Criminal Justice and Criminology Minor  (p. 376)
CURRICULUM
Once enrolled in the BS/MA program, admitted students can enroll in
up to 15-credit hours during their senior year. The Master of Arts in
Criminology and Criminal Justice requires 30-credit hours of coursework,
consisting of 5 required courses (including a culminating experience)
and 5 elective courses. In order to demonstrate cumulative proﬁciency,
students are required to pass either Applied Research in Criminal Justice
& Criminology or complete a thesis. By default, all students are placed in
the non-thesis option unless they select and are approved for the thesis
option.
Code Title Hours
BS Required CoursesCJC 101Criminal Justice in a Global Context3
CJC 201 Theories of Criminal Behavior 3CJC 205Research Methods 13
Select two of the following: 6CJC 202Criminal CourtsCJC 203 PolicingCJC 204CorrectionsCJC 323 Criminal ProcedureElective Courses  (p.  )18
Select six (6) electives from CJC 200- or 300-level courses, as well
as a statistics course in the Sociology, Psychology, or Statistics
Department  2,3ORSelect ﬁve (5) electives from CJC 200- or 300-level courses  2,3CJC 206StatisticsCapstoneCJC 399Senior Capstone 43or CJC 390Capstone Experience Internship
MA Required CoursesCJC 401Politics and Policies in the Criminal Justice
System3
CJC 402 Theories of Criminal Behavior 3CJC 403Research Methods and Program Evaluation 53
CJC 404 Applied Data Analysis and Interpretation 54Culminating Experience Course  7CJC 408 Applied Research in Criminal Justice &
Criminology 52
or CJC 501 Thesis ResearchSelect Five Electives  615
CJC 415 Mental Illness and CrimeCJC 416International Criminal JusticeCJC 499 Independent StudyCJC 502Practicum in Criminal JusticeVariable Topics Electives - Maximum of 3 in each areaCJC 410Advanced Topics in CriminologyCJC 411 Advanced Topics in PolicingCJC 412Advanced Topics in CourtsCJC 413 Advanced Topics in CorrectionsCJC 414General Special TopicsTotal Hours51
1Students double-majoring in Sociology/CJC or Psychology/CJC
may also fulﬁll the research methods requirement in Sociology or
Psychology; in such cases, students then will need to complete seven
(7) CJC elective courses.
2A list of available undergraduate courses can be found in our
Undergraduate Course Descriptions  (p. 2504 ).
3If students take  CJC 206  Statistics , then they only need to complete
ﬁve (5) CJC elective courses; however, if students fulﬁll the statistics
requirement in another department, then they will need to complete six
(6) CJC elective courses.
4With the approval of the department, qualiﬁed students may also
complete CJC 391 Capstone Experience Research
5Student must earn a grade of B or better in order to graduate (a B- or
below will not fulﬁll this requirement), and class must be repeated if
grade below a B is earned.
6In consultation with the Graduate Program Director, students may select
graduate-level electives among those offered within the Department of Criminal
Justice and Criminology as well as from other programs such as Social Work,
Psychology, Women's Studies and Gender Studies, Public Policy, or Sociology.
7Students choosing the thesis track will complete a research thesis and
take  CJC 501  Thesis Research , while students who choose a non-thesis
option will complete a major research paper and take  CJC 408  Applied
Research in Criminal Justice & Criminology .

--- Page 1043 ---
1074  Criminal Justice and Criminology (BS/MA)
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate

--- Page 1044 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1075
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•Provide students with a broad liberal arts background, with
stimulating and challenging courses pertinent to the study of criminal
justice and criminology.
•Give students the awareness and appreciation of group similarities
and differences, especially those relating to culture and race, and to
ethics, norms, and values.
•Help students develop theoretical and practical knowledge of the
structures, processes, and functions of the criminal justice system,
always stressing its links and interdependence with other institutions
in the social system.
•Provide students with an understanding of criminological theory and
how these apply to criminal justice policy and practice.
•Offer students the opportunity to test their interests and abilities in
criminal justice ﬁelds through controlled involvement in the form of
agency visits, ﬁeld experience, and research.
•Help prepare students for professional service in a wide range of
careers in criminal justice.•Enable talented students to enter conﬁdently into graduate or
professional school programs in criminal justice, law, social work, or
any of the social sciences.
Criminal Justice and Criminology/
International Affairs (BS/MA)
The growing interconnectedness of the world’s almost 200 countries,
termed globalization, and the rising impacts of foreign affairs on our
daily lives increasingly require individuals with advanced knowledge
of International Affairs. The Accelerated BS/MA in Criminal Justice
and Criminology and International Affairs allows students to ex plore
global problems and interactions from an interdisciplinary perspective
that makes use of eight Arts and Sciences academic departments and
four additional colleges. Students will have the flexibility to tailor their
program to ﬁt their individual interests. Students can fulﬁll a capstone
experience by participating in an internship, taking a study abroad class,
writing a paper for publication, or writing a master’s thesis.
Loyola University Chicago and the City of Chicago together serve as the
ideal location for an MA in International Affairs: Loyola embodies a long
commitment to interdisciplinary education; and Chicago is consistently
ranked as one of the top ten global cities in the world. The program offers
a unique urban setting for students interested in the advanced study of
International Affairs.
The majority of full-time students are expected to ﬁnish the program
in 5 years, as opposed to the six years if both programs are pursued
separately. Undergraduate students from participating programs at
Loyola will be able to pursue an accelerated BS/MA in Criminal Justice
and Criminology and International Affairs.
Students will also be able to take graduate courses in the School of
Communication, the School of Education (International Education), the
School of Law, Parkinson School of Health Sciences and Public Health,
Quinlan School of Business, and the School of Social Work.
Related Programs
Master's
•International Affairs (MA)  (p. 1642 )
Combined
•Criminal Justice and Criminology (BS/MA)  (p. 1072 )
Curriculum
For the BS, students will complete requirements for the Bachelor's
degree, and graduate level courses may be used as electives.  For the MA,
students will take a total of ten classes (30 credit hours) to complete the
program: Four required core classes, including a capstone experience,
and an additional six elective classes, with no more than three offered by
a single department in the College of Arts & Sciences or another School
at Loyola.
Code Title Hours
Required BS CoursesCJC 101Criminal Justice in a Global Context3
CJC 201 Theories of Criminal Behavior 3CJC 205Research Methods 13
Select two of the following: 6

--- Page 1045 ---
1076  Criminal Justice and Criminology/International Affairs (BS/MA)CJC 202Criminal CourtsCJC 203 PolicingCJC 204CorrectionsCJC 323 Criminal ProcedureElective Courses  2Select six (6) elective courses from CJC 200- or 300- level courses.  318CJC 206Statistics (or a comparable course in sociology,
psychology, or statistics.) 43
CapstoneCJC 399Senior Capstone 53or CJC 390Capstone Experience Internship
Requires MA CoursesCOREINTA 420 Comparative Political Systems 3INTA 430Theories of International Politics3
INTA 475 Political Analysis I 3Capstone Experience3
Select one of the following:INTA 470Fieldwork in PLSC-InternshipPLSC 499 Directed ReadingsPLSC 605Master's StudyElectives  (p. 1076 ) 218In addition to the four core classes, students will take an additional
six elective courses, with no more than three offered by a single
department in the College of Arts and Sciences or another School
at Loyola. The core INTA courses in Political Science do not count
toward this three-course total, and thus a student may take three
Political Science courses in addition to the three core (required)
courses.Total Hours63
1Students also may fulﬁll the research methods requirement in
Sociology or Psychology; in such cases, students then will need to
complete seven (7) CJC elective courses.
2Two Graduate-level International Affairs courses must be taken
Senior Year. These courses can count as major electives or general
electives. These two courses double-count for International Affairs MA
requirements.
3A list of available undergraduate courses can be found in our
Undergraduate  Course Descriptions  (p. 2504 ).
4If students take  CJC 206  Statistics , then they only need to complete
ﬁve (5) CJC elective courses; however, if students fulﬁll the statistics
requirement in another department, then they will need to complete six
(6) CJC elective courses.
5With the approval of the department, qualiﬁed students may also
complete  CJC 391  Capstone Experience Research .
The participating programs that will contribute classes include: Global
Studies, History, Philosophy, Political Science, Psychology, Sociology,
and Theology, Criminal Justice & Criminology, as well as the Schools of
Communication, Education, Business, Law, Health Sciences and Public
Health, and Social Work.
List of MA Elective Courses
Please note that the courses listed might not be offered every year and
new courses may be added to this list. Students should talk with theGraduate Program Director if they want to take a course that is not on
the list of elective courses to see whether the course can serve as an
elective.
College of Arts and Sciences
Code Title Hours
Criminal Justice and Criminology DepartmentCJC 416International Criminal Justice3
Methods CoursesCJC 403Research Methods and Program Evaluation3
CJC 404 Applied Data Analysis and Interpretation 4History DepartmentHIST 441 Women's & Gender History: Europe 3HIST 459Environmental History3
HIST 464 Transnational Urban History 3Methods CoursesHIST 483 Oral History: Method and Practice 3Modern Languages and Literatures DepartmentLanguage Research Tool: Although there is no language requirement,
students interested in honing their foreign language skills will have
the option of taking a 400-level language course (i.e., a course
beyond 101, 102, 103, and 104), and having that course count as one
of the six elective courses. Current language possibilities offered at
Loyola include Chinese, French, German, Italian, and Spanish.MLL also offers graduate-level courses in Spanish as part of their
master’s degree in Spanish. These courses are as follows and would
be open only to interested students with advanced writing, speaking,
and reading skills in Spanish. These courses are as follows:SPAN 405 Critical Methods (pan-Hispanic world) 3SPAN 490Hispanic Culture & Civilization (Latin American
ﬁlm, with a focus on human rights)3
Philosophy DepartmentPHIL 459Philosophy of Law3
PHIL 463 Virtue Ethics (includes non-Western philosophy) 3PHIL TBDCritical Race Theory (originally taught as a “special
topics” course; is being turned into a permanent
course)PHIL 480 Social & Political Philosophy (focuses on global
development on a regular basis)3Methods CoursesPHIL 400 Philosophy Research Tools 3Political Science DepartmentPLSC 421 Democratic Political Systems 3PLSC 422Authoritarian Political Systems3
PLSC 431 Formulation US Foreign Policy 3PLSC 432Comparative Foreign Policy Analysis3
PLSC 433 International Organization 3PLSC 435International Political Economics3
PLSC 436 International Conflict 3Methods CoursesPLSC 401 Intro to Research Design & Method 3PLSC 476Political Analysis II3
Psychology DepartmentPSYC 460Social Psychological Theory3
PSYC 461 Attitude and Attitude Change 3

--- Page 1046 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1077PSYC 474Research in Group Dynamics3
PSYC 484 Prejudice and Intergroup Relations 3Methods CoursesPSYC 486 Methods of Program Evaluation 3Sociology DepartmentSOCL 418 Demography 3SOCL 423Social Movements3
SOCL 426 Sociology of Gender 3SOCL 441Sociology of Religion3
SOCL 447 Sociology of Culture 3SOCL 461Race & Ethnicity3
Methods CoursesSOCL 410Logic of Sociological Inquiry3
SOCL 412 Qualitative Methods in Social Research 3SOCL 414Statistical Methods Analysis I3
SOCL 415 Statistical Methods of Analysis II 3Theology DepartmentTHEO 459 Contemporary Theology 1-12THEO 460Seminar in History of Theology1-12
THEO 464 Religion & Politics in Christian History 3THEO 470Foundations Crititical Issues Theological Ethics1-12
THEO 480 Seminar in Christian Ethics 1-12
School of Education (International Education)
Code Title Hours
ELPS 405 Introduction to Educational Policy Analysis 3ELPS 448International Higher Education3
ELPS 455 Comparative Education 3ELPS 540Seminar in the History of Education3
ELPS 550 Seminar on Globalization and Education 3ELPS 555Seminar Comparative Education3
 School of Communication
Code Title Hours
COMM 401 Foundations of Global Strategic Communication 3COMM 402Organizational Leadership and Change
Management3
COMM 422 Global and Multicultural Audiences and
Stakeholders3
School of Social Work
Code Title Hours
SOWK 502 Power, Oppression, Privilege, and Social Justice 3SOWK 654Global Social Work: Reflective Practice for Justice
and Peace3
SOWK 730 Immigration Dynamics and U.S. Social Policy 3SOWK 731Social Work Practice with Refugees and
Immigrants3
SOWK 732 Migration, Social Justice, and Human Rights 3SOWK 733North American Migration Dynamics, Challenges &
Opportunity1-3School of Law 
Code Title Hours
LAW 176 International Trade Law 11-3LAW 371International Business Trans 11-3
LAW 372 International Law and Practice 3LAW 388Global Access to Medicine: A Patent Perspective3
LAW 459 Intro to English Legal Profession 1LAW 568European Union Law 11-3
1Explanatory note about 1, 2, 3, and variable credit hour courses from
the School of Law: “For the law courses showing a range of hours (e.g.,
1-3 credit hours), students have the option to choose the number of
credits for enrollment within the range. For students opting for the
higher credits (i.e., enrollment in 3 credit hours rather than 1 credit hour
would require additional assignments and/or an examination). If the
MA students in these courses need to be enrolled in 3 credit hours,
the following notation can be included with the course listing:  ‘MA
students must choose the 3 credit option for enrollment in this course’. ”
Please note that courses to be included in this MA program will require
students choosing the 3-credit option.
 School of Law - Classes Offered at the John Felice Rome Center
Code Title Hours
PLAW 101 Comparative and Ethical Lawyering for the Rule of
Law3PLAW 102History, Theory and Practice of Rule of Law for
Development3
PLAW 103 Theory and Practice of Assessments in Rule of
Law Advising2PLAW 104International Development Architecture3
PLAW 105 Sustainable Development Through International
Commerce and Investment2PLAW 106Design of Rule of Law Programs and Proposal
Preparation2
PLAW 107 Rule of Law in Conflict Prevention and
Peacebuilding2PLAW 108Legal Systems and Methods3
PLAW 250 Research and Writing on the Rule of Law 3PLAW 907Rule of Law Project Management, Monitoring &
Evaluation3
Parkinson School of Health Sciences and Public Health 
Code Title Hours
MPBH 400 Determinants of Population Health 3MPBH 414Introduction to Global Health3
MPBH 417 Global Maternal and Child Health 3MPBH 422Population Health Planning & Management3
MPBH 424 Health Economics and Healthcare Financing 3MPBH 432Health Impact Assessment3
Quinlan School of Business 
Code Title Hours
ECON 424 International Business Economics 3FINC 455International Financial Management3
HRER 422 Global HR Management 3HRER 502Global Employment Relations3

--- Page 1047 ---
1078  Criminal Justice and Criminology/International Affairs (BS/MA)
MARK 465 International Marketing 3MARK 461Research Methods in Marketing3
MGMT 446 International Business Ethics 3SCMG 486Global Logistics3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
Students can begin the Criminal Justice and Criminology (BS) de gree
at any point in their undergraduate studies, in consultation with
their advisor. While there is no set sequence of classes, students are
encouraged to take  CJC 101  Criminal Justice in a Global Context  early on.
Once students have declared the major, they are encouraged to contact
First and Second Year Advising within the College of Arts and Sciences
or the Criminal Justice and Criminology Department’s Undergraduate
Program Director for further guidance on how best to progress with their
studies.
The following grid is a suggested sequence of courses for students who
declare a CJC major as freshmen.
In order to provide optimal flexibility in the program, there is no required
course sequence for the International Affairs (MA). However, students
are expected to take two graduate-level  course s in each semester of
their senior year and a total of six graduate-level  course s in their ﬁfth
year. There is no required  course  sequence , but we strongly suggest that
students ﬁrst take the required  course s (PLSC 420, PLSC 430, and PLSC
475) whenever they are offered before taking elective  course s.
Course Title Hours
Freshman
CJC 101 Criminal Justice in a Global Context 3CJC 201Theories of Criminal Behavior3 Hours6
SophomoreCJC 205Research Methods3
CJC 206 Statistics ( or equivalent ) 3Select two of the following:6
CJC 202 Criminal Courts  CJC 203Policing 
CJC 204 Corrections  CJC 323Criminal Procedure  Hours12
JuniorSelect two electives from CJC 200- or 300-level courses.6CJC 390Capstone Experience Internship 13 Hours9
Senior
Select two elective courses from CJC 200- or 300- level courses. 6Select two International Affairs 400-level courses.6 Hours12
Year 5Complete remainder of International Affairs MA requirements.24 Hours24 Total Hours63Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.

--- Page 1048 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1079
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduatecredit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
Students will graduate from our program having achieved:
•A foundation for understanding and critiquing research related to
International Affairs, including methods training that leverages both
qualitative and quantitative data
•Knowledge of the principal theories of comparative politics and
international relations, as well as the key areas of research in these
two subﬁelds
•An interdisciplinary understanding and appreciation of International
Affairs through coursework available within eight different
departments in the College of Arts and Sciences and four additional
Schools at Loyola
•Enhanced writing and critical thinking skills and dispositions through
class-based projects and a capstone experience
•Strengthened methods, research, or writing skills tailored to students
interests with advanced methods courses, language training, or the
writing of a master’s thesis.

--- Page 1049 ---
1080  Data Science (BS/MS)
Data Science (BS/MS)
The Accelerated Bachelor's Master's program in Data Science allows
undergraduate students to receive their Master's Degree in a total
of ﬁve years.  Students apply in their junior year and must complete
all requirements for the undergraduate and graduate Data Science
Programs.  They are able to ﬁnish the program in only one additional
year by double counting 9 credits in their senior year towards both their
Undergraduate Degree and their Master's Degree.
Related Programs
Major
•Data Science (BS)  (p. 378)
Combined
•Data Science/Applied Statistics (BS/MS)  (p. 1083 )
•Data Science/Mathematics (BS/MS)  (p. 1086 )
Curriculum
B.S./M.S. Requirements
Code Title Hours
Required B.S. CoursesMath RequirementsMATH 161 Calculus I 4MATH 162Calculus II4
MATH 212 Linear Algebra 3Statistics RequirementsSTAT 203 Introduction to Probability & Statistics 3STAT 308Applied Regression Analysis3
STAT 410 Categorical Data Analysis 13Any STAT 300-level Course6
Computer Science RequirementsCOMP 141Introduction to Computing Tools and Techniques3
COMP 215 /
MATH 215Object Oriented Programming with Mathematics 3COMP 231Data Structures & Algorithms for Informatics3
COMP 353 Database Programming 3Any COMP 300-level course6
Data Science CoreDSCI 101Fundamentals of Modern Data Science with R3
COMP 479 Machine Learning 13
or STAT 438 Introduction to Predictive AnalyticsCOMP 317Social, Legal, and Ethical Issues in Computing3
COMP 458 Big Data Analytics 13STAT 370Data Science Consulting3
Required M.S. CoursesM.S. Non-Thesis RequirementsCOMP 453 Database Programming 3COMP 458Big Data Analytics 13
COMP 479 Machine Learning 13
or STAT 438 Introduction to Predictive AnalyticsDSCI 401Introduction to Data Science4
DSCI 470 Data Science Consulting 2STAT 410Categorical Data Analysis 13
Any STAT 400-level Course 6Any COMP 400-level Class3
Any STAT or COMP 400-level Course 3M.S. Thesis Track RequirementsCOMP 453 Database Programming 3COMP 458Big Data Analytics 13
COMP 479 Machine Learning 13
or STAT 438 Introduction to Predictive AnalyticsDSCI 401Introduction to Data Science4
DSCI 494 Data Science Research Design 2DSCI 499Data Science Research8
DSCI 595 Thesis Supervision 1STAT 410Categorical Data Analysis 13
Any STAT 400-level Course 3
1This course counts toward requirements for both the B.S. and M.S.
Electives
The list of electives is divided into primary and secondary electives.
Primary electives are recommended classes to all data science students.
Secondary electives are courses that may be a good ﬁt for students
with a speciﬁc area of emphasis. Students need to coordinate with the
Graduate Program Director if they plan to take a secondary elective.
Code Title Hours
Primary COMP ElectivesCOMP 406Data Mining3
COMP 429 Natural Language Processing 3COMP 484Artiﬁcial Intelligence3
COMP 487 Deep Learning 3COMP 488Computer Science Topics (If the topic is relevant to
data science. Example: Topics in Computer Vision)1-4
Primary STAT electivesSTAT 411Applied Survival Analysis3
STAT 421 Math Modeling & Simulation 3
or COMP 421 Math Models & SimulationSTAT 451Applied Nonparametric Methods3
STAT 444 Longitudinal Data Analysis and Mixed Modeling 3STAT 488Topics in Statistics (If the topic is relevant to
data science. Examples: Multivariate Statistics,
Bayesian Statistics)1-3
Secondary COMP electivesCOMP 436Markup Languages3
COMP 441 Human-Computer Interaction 3COMP 460Algorithms & Complexity3
COMP 405 Database Administration 3COMP 412Open Source Computing3
COMP 413 Intermediate Object-Oriented Development 3COMP 418Combinatorial Mathematics3
COMP 424 Client-Side Web Design 3COMP 474Software Engineering3
COMP 422 Software Development for Wireless and Mobile
Devices3

--- Page 1050 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1081COMP 417Social and Ethical Issues in Computing3
COMP 490 Independent Project 1-6COMP 499Internship1-6
COMP 477 IT Project Management 3Secondary STAT electivesSTAT 403 SAS Program & Applied Statistics 3STAT 407Statistical Design3
STAT 404 Probability & Statistics I 3STAT 405Probability & Statistics II3
STAT 498 Independent Study Statistics 1-6
Suggested Sequence of Courses
Non-Thesis Track Suggested Schedule of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
DSCI 101 Fundamentals of Modern Data Science
with R3MATH 161Calculus I4 Hours7
SpringMATH 162Calculus II4COMP 141Introduction to Computing Tools and
Techniques3 Hours7
Year 2
Fall
MATH 212 Linear Algebra 3MATH 215Object-Oriented Programming with
Mathematics3 Hours6
SpringCOMP 231Data Structures & Algorithms for
Informatics3STAT 203Introduction to Probability & Statistics3 Hours6
Year 3
Fall
STAT 308 Applied Regression Analysis 3COMP 353Database Programming3 Hours6
SpringCOMP 300-Level Course3
STAT 300-Level Course 3COMP 317Social, Legal, and Ethical Issues in
Computing3 Hours9Year 4
FallCOMP 479 
or STAT 438Machine Learning 
or Introduction to Predictive Analytics3
STAT 300-Level Course 3COMP 300-Level Course3 Hours9
SpringCOMP 458Big Data Analytics3
STAT 410 Categorical Data Analysis 3STAT 370Data Science Consulting3 Hours9
Year 5
FallDSCI 401Introduction to Data Science4
DSCI 470 Data Science Consulting 2STAT 400-Level Course3COMP 400-level Course  Substitutes COMP 453 as COMP 353 was taken in
Y33 Hours12
Spring
STAT 400-Level Course 3COMP 400-Level Course3STAT or COMP 400-Level Course3 Hours9 Total Hours80
Thesis Track Suggested Schedule of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
DSCI 101 Fundamentals of Modern Data Science
with R3MATH 161Calculus I4 Hours7
SpringMATH 162Calculus II4COMP 141Introduction to Computing Tools and
Techniques3 Hours7
Year 2
Fall
MATH 212 Linear Algebra 3MATH 215Object-Oriented Programming with
Mathematics3 Hours6

--- Page 1051 ---
1082  Data Science (BS/MS)
SpringCOMP 231Data Structures & Algorithms for
Informatics3STAT 203Introduction to Probability & Statistics3 Hours6
Year 3
Fall
STAT 308 Applied Regression Analysis 3COMP 353Database Programming3 Hours6
SpringCOMP 300-Level Course3
STAT 300-Level Course 3COMP 317Social, Legal, and Ethical Issues in
Computing3 Hours9
Year 4
FallCOMP 479 
or STAT 438Machine Learning 
or Introduction to Predictive Analytics3
STAT 300-Level Course 3COMP 300-Level Course3 Hours9
SpringCOMP 458Big Data Analytics3
STAT 410 Categorical Data Analysis 3STAT 370Data Science Consulting3 Hours9
Year 5
FallDSCI 401Introduction to Data Science4
DSCI 494 Data Science Research Design 2STAT 400-Level Course3COMP 400-Level Course  Substitutes COMP 453 as COMP 353 was taken in
Y33 Hours12
Spring
DSCI 499 Data Science Research 8DSCI 595Thesis Supervision1 Hours9 Total Hours80
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).

--- Page 1052 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1083
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in thegraduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•The ability to manage large data sets in preparation for data science
analysis.
•A working knowledge of statistical techniques and computer
algorithms, and the ability to apply these methods to a wide ar ray of
real-world problems.
•The ability to perform a data science analysis from beginning to end
while adhering to the principles of reproducible and ethical research.
•The ability to program in both the R and Python programming
languages.
•Non-thesis track: Students will be required to complete areal-world
data science project prior to graduating from this program, either
through our consulting course, an internship, an independent study, or
other appropriate project
•Thesis track: Students will be required to undertake a research project
culminating in a thesis
Data Science/Applied Statistics (BS/
MS)
The Accelerated Bachelor's Master's program allows undergraduate
students to receive their Master's Degree in a total of ﬁve years.  Students
apply in their junior year and must complete all requirements for the
undergraduate and graduate programs.  They are able to ﬁnish the
program in only one additional year by double counting up to 9 credits
in their senior year towards both their Undergraduate Degree and their
Master's Degree.

--- Page 1053 ---
1084  Data Science/Applied Statistics (BS/MS)
Related Programs
Major
•Data Science (BS)  (p. 378)
Combined
•Data Science (BS/MS)  (p. 1080 )
•Data Science/Mathematics (BS/MS)  (p. 1086 )
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
BS RequirementsMath RequirementsMATH 161 Calculus I 4MATH 162Calculus II4
MATH 212 Linear Algebra 3STATS RequirementsSTAT 203 Introduction to Probability & Statistics 3STAT 308Applied Regression Analysis3
STAT 310 Categorical Data Analysis 3Select six credits of STAT 300-level electives  1,26
Computer Science RequirementsCOMP 141Introduction to Computing Tools and Techniques3
COMP 215 /
MATH 215Object Oriented Programming with Mathematics 3COMP 231Data Structures & Algorithms for Informatics3
COMP 353 Database Programming 3Select six credits of COMP 300-level electives6
Data Science CoreDSCI 101Fundamentals of Modern Data Science with R3
STAT 338 Predictive Analytics 3
or COMP 379 Machine LearningCOMP 317Social, Legal, and Ethical Issues in Computing3
COMP 358 Big Data Analytics (capstone) 3STAT 370Data Science Consulting (capstone)3
MS RequirementsSTAT 401Introduction to Applied Statistics Using R1
STAT 403 SAS Program & Applied Statistics 3STAT 404Probability & Statistics I3
STAT 405 Probability & Statistics II 3STAT 407Statistical Design3
STAT 408 Applied Regression Analysis 3STAT 495Statistical Consulting Capstone2
Select Four (4) Elective Courses 12STAT 406Stochastic ProcessesSTAT 410 Categorical Data AnalysisSTAT 411Applied Survival AnalysisSTAT 421 Math Modeling & SimulationSTAT 426Advanced Statistical InferenceSTAT 436 Topics in BiostatisticsSTAT 438Introduction to Predictive AnalyticsSTAT 444 Longitudinal Data Analysis and Mixed ModelingSTAT 451Applied Nonparametric MethodsSTAT 488 Topics in StatisticsSTAT 498Independent Study StatisticsTotal Hours83
1Excluding STAT 335 Introduction to Biostatistics  and STAT 337
Quantitative Methods in Bioinformatics .
2These courses may be taken as STAT 400-level courses that meet
requirements for both degrees.
Specializations
Our flexible program allows students to focus on their interests by
choosing a specialization. Possibilities include:SpecializationDescription
Biostatistics The Biostatistics specialization covers
non- and pre-clinical statistical methods,
bioassay, statistical genetics, clinical trials, and
bioinformatics.Environmental
StatisticsThe Environmental Statistics specialization
addresses Geographic Information Systems (GIS),
spatial statistics, and environmetrics.
General Applied
StatisticsThe specialization in General Applied Statistics
includes non-medical applications such as
actuarial, commercial, data-mining, industrial,
marketing, and national defense.Predictive Analytics/
ModelingThe Predictive Modeling specialization focuses on
big data analytics and modeling.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
DSCI 101 Fundamentals of Modern Data Science
with R3MATH 161Calculus I4 Hours7
SpringCOMP 141Introduction to Computing Tools and
Techniques3MATH 162Calculus II4 Hours7
Year 2
Fall
MATH 212 Linear Algebra 3COMP 215 /
MATH 215Object Oriented Programming with
Mathematics3 Hours6
SpringCOMP 231Data Structures & Algorithms for
Informatics3

--- Page 1054 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1085STAT 203Introduction to Probability & Statistics3 Hours6
Year 3
Fall
STAT 308 Applied Regression Analysis 3COMP 353Database Programming3 Hours6
SpringCOMP 300-level Course3
COMP 300-level Course 3COMP 317Social, Legal, and Ethical Issues in
Computing3 Hours9
Year 4
FallSTAT 388 
or COMP 379Topics 
or Machine Learning3
STAT 370 Data Science Consulting 3STAT 400-level Course3 Hours9
SpringCOMP 358Big Data Analytics3
STAT 310 Categorical Data Analysis 3STAT 400-level Course3 Hours9
Year 5Students take remainder of MS courses in consultation with
Graduate Program Director.24 Hours24 Total Hours83
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses

--- Page 1055 ---
1086  Data Science/Mathematics (BS/MS)
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in theSchool/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes 
•The ability to manage large data sets in preparation for data science
analysis [Data Science]
•A working knowledge of traditional statistical techniques and
the ability to apply these methods to a wide array of real-world
problems [Data Science]
•The ability to perform a data science analysis from beginning to
end while adhering to the principles of reproducible research  [Data
Science]
•The ability to program in both the R and Python programming
languages [Data Science]
•Mastered the art and science of choosing and/or developing the
appropriate statistical model(s) for a given dataset-situation, and
have mastered the skill of interpreting the chosen model. [Applied
Statistics]
•Received sufﬁcient exposure to basic theorems and proofs used in
introductory probability and statistical inference.  [Applied Statistics]
•Worked with data from application ﬁelds such as public/global health,
medical, industrial and environmental research.  [Applied Statistics]
•Received training to ethically apply statistical training in the real
world.  [Applied Statistics]
•Obtained hands-on experience and assimilated course material via
our 2cr Statistical Consulting capstone/practicum class.  [Applied
Statistics]
•Sufﬁciently mastered the course and practicum material to
either obtain gainful employment in the ﬁeld of attend a Ph.D.
program  [Applied Statistics]
Data Science/Mathematics (BS/MS)
The Accelerated Bachelor's Master's program allows undergraduate
students to receive their Master's Degree in a total of ﬁve years.  Students
apply in their junior year and must complete all requirements for the
undergraduate and graduate programs.  They are able to ﬁnish the
program in only one additional year by double counting up to 9 credits
in their senior year towards both their Undergraduate Degree and their
Master's Degree.
Related Programs
Major
•Mathematics (BS)  (p. 532)

--- Page 1056 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1087
Combined
•Data Science (BS/MS)  (p. 1080 )
•Data Science/Applied Statistics (BS/MS)  (p. 1083 )
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
BS RequirementsMath RequirementsMATH 161 Calculus I 4MATH 162Calculus II4
MATH 212 Linear Algebra 3STATS RequirementsSTAT 203 Introduction to Probability & Statistics 3STAT 308Applied Regression Analysis3
STAT 310 Categorical Data Analysis 3Select six credits of STAT 300-level electives  1,46
Computer Science RequirementsCOMP 141Introduction to Computing Tools and Techniques3
COMP 215 /
MATH 215Object Oriented Programming with Mathematics 3COMP 231Data Structures & Algorithms for Informatics3
COMP 353 Database Programming 3Select six credits of COMP 300-level electives6
Data Science CoreDSCI 101Fundamentals of Modern Data Science with R3
STAT 338 Predictive Analytics 3
or COMP 379 Machine LearningCOMP 317Social, Legal, and Ethical Issues in Computing3
COMP 358 Big Data Analytics (capstone) 3STAT 370Data Science Consulting (capstone)3
MS RequirementsFoundational Course RequirementsMATH 416 Survey of Algebra 3MATH 454Survey of Analysis3
MATH 404 /
STAT 404Probability & Statistics I 23
or STAT 408 Applied Regression AnalysisDepth Requirement CoursesSelect one of the following: 3MATH 414Algebra IIMATH 415 Topics in Linear AlgebraMATH 452Analysis IIMATH 453 Complex AnalysisSelect one of the following:  23
MATH 405 /
STAT 405Probability & Statistics IISTAT 410Categorical Data AnalysisCOMP 429 Natural Language ProcessingCOMP 487Deep LearningDSCI 401 Introduction to Data ScienceOr Another Course with Graduate Program Director ApprovalAdditional RequirementsMATH 401Introduction to Graduate Study in Mathematics1
MATH 495 Graduate Practicum in Mathematics 2Four (4) Approved 400-Level Electives in Mathematics or Statistics  312Total Hours83
1Excluding STAT 335 Introduction to Biostatistics  and STAT 337
Quantitative Methods in Bioinformatics
2Students who select MATH 404 /STAT 404  in Foundational Courses
may opt to take STAT 408  as a Depth Course, and vice versa.
3Approved elective courses should be selected with advice of Graduate Program
Director to complement student's previous learning and support future plans.
4These courses may be taken as MATH/STAT 400-level courses that
meet requirements for both degrees.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
DSCI 101 Fundamentals of Modern Data Science
with R3MATH 161Calculus I4 Hours7
SpringCOMP 141Introduction to Computing Tools and
Techniques3MATH 162Calculus II4 Hours7
Year 2
Fall
MATH 212 Linear Algebra 3COMP 215 /
MATH 215Object Oriented Programming with
Mathematics3 Hours6
SpringCOMP 231Data Structures & Algorithms for
Informatics3STAT 203Introduction to Probability & Statistics3 Hours6
Year 3
Fall
STAT 308 Applied Regression Analysis 3COMP 353Database Programming3 Hours6
SpringCOMP 300-level Course3
COMP 300-level Course 3COMP 317Social, Legal, and Ethical Issues in
Computing3 Hours9

--- Page 1057 ---
1088  Data Science/Mathematics (BS/MS)
Year 4
FallSTAT 388 
or COMP 379Topics 
or Machine Learning3
STAT 370 Data Science Consulting 3MATH/STAT 400-level Course3 Hours9
SpringCOMP 358Big Data Analytics3
STAT 310 Categorical Data Analysis 3MATH/STAT 400-level Course3 Hours9
Year 5Students take remainder of MS courses in consultation with
Graduate Program Director.24 Hours24 Total Hours83
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’sprogram who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4

--- Page 1058 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1089
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned whilein the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes 
•The ability to manage large data sets in preparation for data science
analysis [Data Science]
•A working knowledge of traditional statistical techniques and
the ability to apply these methods to a wide array of real-world
problems [Data Science]
•The ability to perform a data science analysis from beginning to
end while adhering to the principles of reproducible research  [Data
Science]
•The ability to program in both the R and Python programming
languages [Data Science]
•The ability to construct mathematical proofs of basic theorems, and
to write these proofs clearly using correct grammatical constructs
and appropriate mathematical notation [Mathematics]
•A working knowledge of applications of mathematics to areas
across mathematical disciplines and outside of mathematical
disciplines [Mathematics]
•Training sufﬁcient for acceptance into PhD programs or professional
schools, or for hire in mathematics related industries [Mathematics]
•Training on how to act responsibly and ethically within the
discipline [Mathematics]
Elementary Education/International
Affairs (BSEd/MA)
The growing interconnectedness of the world’s almost 200 countries,
termed globalization, and the rising impacts of foreign affairs on our
daily lives increasingly require individuals with advanced knowledge of
International Affairs. The Accelerated BSEd/MA in Elementary Education
and International Affairs allows students to explore global problems
and interactions from an interdisciplinary perspective that makes use
of eight Arts and Sciences academic departments and four additional
colleges. Students will have the flexibility to tailor their program to ﬁt
their individual interests. Students can fulﬁll a capstone experience by
participating in an internship, taking a study abroad class, writing a paper
for publication, or writing a master’s thesis.
Loyola University Chicago and the City of Chicago together serve as the
ideal location for an MA in International Affairs: Loyola embodies a long
commitment to interdisciplinary education; and Chicago is consistently
ranked as one of the top ten global cities in the world. The program offers
a unique urban setting for students interested in the advanced study of
International Affairs.
The majority of full-time students are expected to ﬁnish the program
in 5 years, as opposed to the six years if both programs are pursued
separately. Undergraduate students from participating programs at
Loyola will be able to pursue an accelerated BSEd/MA in Elementary
Education and International Affairs.
Students will also be able to take graduate courses in the School of
Communication, the School of Education (International Education), the
School of Law, Parkinson School of Health Sciences and Public Health,
Quinlan School of Business, and the School of Social Work.

--- Page 1059 ---
1090  Elementary Education/International Affairs (BSEd/MA)
Related Programs
Major
•Elementary Education (BSEd)  (p. 893)
Master's
•Elementary Education (MEd)  (p. 2010 )
Minor
•Education Policy Studies Minor  (p. 892)
Curriculum
For the BSEd, students will complete requirements for the Bachelor's
degree, and graduate level courses may be used as electives. For the MA,
students will take a total of ten classes (30 credit hours) to complete the
program: Four required core classes, including a capstone experience,
and an additional six elective classes, with no more than three offered by
a single department in the College of Arts & Sciences or another School
at Loyola.
Code Title Hours
BSEd RequirementsCIEP 104Mathematics for Teachers I3
CIEP 105 Mathematics for Teachers II 3CIEP 206Children's Literature3
CIEP 359 Teaching Reading 3ELPS 219History of American Education3
ELPS 302 Philosophy of Education 3TLSC 110The Profession and Our Program (TLLSC)1
TLSC 120 Bringing Language, Learning & Development
Theory into Practice2TLSC 130Sequence One: 130 Community Immersion1
TLSC 140 Teaching, Learning and Leading for Social Justice 1TLSC 150Constructive Learning Environments For Diverse
Students1
TLSC 160 Analyzing Culturally-Responsive Classroom
Instruction1TLSC 210Educational Policy For Diverse Students2
TLSC 221 Individualized Instruction and Assessment for
Diverse Learners2TLSC 222Authentic Assessment and Instruction for Bilingual
Learners2
TLSC 231 Teaching Science/Writing in Elem and Middle
Grades3TLSC 232Integrated Teaching/Learning Social Studies &
Writing in Elementary Grades3
TLSC 300A Professional Learning Communities 0TLSC 300BProfessional Learning Communities1
TLSC 310 Language and Literacy for Diverse Students 2TLSC 320Using Classroom Data in a Collaborative Env to
Advance Student Achievement2
TLSC 330 Discipline-Speciﬁc Literacy for Diverse Students 2TLSC 340Teaching and Learning in an Area of Specialization2
TLSC 350 Teaching and Learning with a Global Framework 4TLSC 360Developing Rigorous and Relevant Instruction &
Assessment3TLSC 370 Design&Implement Rigorous&Rlvnt
Instrctn&Assmt: Tching Perform Assmt Prep3TLSC 380Tching, Lrning & Leading with Schools &
Communities Internship: Stud Tching12
International Affairs MA RequirementsCoreINTA 420 Comparative Political Systems 3INTA 430Theories of International Politics3
INTA 475 Political Analysis I 3Capstone Experience3
Select one of the following:INTA 470Fieldwork in PLSC-InternshipPLSC 499 Directed ReadingsPLSC 605Master's StudyElectives  (p. 1090 ) 118In addition to the four core classes, students will take an additional
six elective courses, with no more than three offered by a single
department in the College of Arts and Sciences or another School
at Loyola. The core INTA courses in Political Science do not count
toward this three-course total, and thus a student may take three
Political Science courses in addition to the three core (required)
courses.Total Hours98
1Two Graduate-level International Affairs courses must be taken
Senior Year. These courses can count as major electives or general
electives. These two courses double-count for International Affairs MA
requirements.
All of Loyola’s Bachelor of Science in Education (BSEd) degrees use the
Teaching, Learning, and Leading with Schools and Communities (TLLSC)
curriculum as its foundation. It’s an approach that will help you stand out
when you’re searching for your ﬁrst job.
The TLLSC curriculum focuses on hands-on learning. Your studies
will be built around four Cornerstones—partnering with schools
and communities, classroom diversity, ongoing classroom experience,
and participating in professional learning communities.
As you learn and grow, you’ll progress through the three  Phases
(https://www.luc.edu/education/academics/areasofstudy/
teachinglearningandleadingwithschoolsandcommunities/
bsedprogramphases/ ) of the program- Exploration, Concentration, and
Specialization. These phases will guide you through a comprehensive
experience that will prepare you to make a difference with learners in
diverse settings.
List of International Affairs MA Elective Courses
The participating programs that will contribute classes include: Global
Studies, History, Philosophy, Political Science, Psychology, Sociology,
and Theology, Criminal Justice & Criminology, as well as the Schools of
Communication, Education, Business, Law, Health Sciences and Public
Health, and Social Work.
Please note that the courses listed might not be offered every year and
new courses may be added to this list. Students should talk with the
Graduate Program Director if they want to take a course that is not on
the list of elective courses to see whether the course can serve as an
elective.

--- Page 1060 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1091
College of Arts and Sciences
Code Title Hours
Criminal Justice and Criminology DepartmentCJC 416International Criminal Justice3
Methods CoursesCJC 403Research Methods and Program Evaluation3
CJC 404 Applied Data Analysis and Interpretation 4History DepartmentHIST 441 Women's & Gender History: Europe 3HIST 459Environmental History3
HIST 464 Transnational Urban History 3Methods CoursesHIST 483 Oral History: Method and Practice 3Modern Languages and Literatures DepartmentLanguage Research Tool: Although there is no language requirement,
students interested in honing their foreign language skills will have
the option of taking a 400-level language course (i.e., a course
beyond 101, 102, 103, and 104), and having that course count as one
of the six elective courses. Current language possibilities offered at
Loyola include Chinese, French, German, Italian, and Spanish.MLL also offers graduate-level courses in Spanish as part of their
master’s degree in Spanish. These courses are as follows and would
be open only to interested students with advanced writing, speaking,
and reading skills in Spanish. These courses are as follows:SPAN 405 Critical Methods (pan-Hispanic world) 3SPAN 490Hispanic Culture & Civilization (Latin American
ﬁlm, with a focus on human rights)3
Philosophy DepartmentPHIL 459Philosophy of Law3
PHIL 463 Virtue Ethics (includes non-Western philosophy) 3PHIL TBDCritical Race Theory (originally taught as a “special
topics” course; is being turned into a permanent
course)PHIL 480 Social & Political Philosophy (focuses on global
development on a regular basis)3Methods CoursesPHIL 400 Philosophy Research Tools 3Political Science DepartmentPLSC 421 Democratic Political Systems 3PLSC 422Authoritarian Political Systems3
PLSC 431 Formulation US Foreign Policy 3PLSC 432Comparative Foreign Policy Analysis3
PLSC 433 International Organization 3PLSC 435International Political Economics3
PLSC 436 International Conflict 3Methods CoursesPLSC 401 Intro to Research Design & Method 3PLSC 476Political Analysis II3
Psychology DepartmentPSYC 460Social Psychological Theory3
PSYC 461 Attitude and Attitude Change 3PSYC 474Research in Group Dynamics3
PSYC 484 Prejudice and Intergroup Relations 3Methods CoursesPSYC 486 Methods of Program Evaluation 3Sociology DepartmentSOCL 418 Demography 3SOCL 423Social Movements3
SOCL 426 Sociology of Gender 3SOCL 441Sociology of Religion3
SOCL 447 Sociology of Culture 3SOCL 461Race & Ethnicity3
Methods CoursesSOCL 410Logic of Sociological Inquiry3
SOCL 412 Qualitative Methods in Social Research 3SOCL 414Statistical Methods Analysis I3
SOCL 415 Statistical Methods of Analysis II 3Theology DepartmentTHEO 459 Contemporary Theology 1-12THEO 460Seminar in History of Theology1-12
THEO 464 Religion & Politics in Christian History 3THEO 470Foundations Crititical Issues Theological Ethics1-12
THEO 480 Seminar in Christian Ethics 1-12
School of Education (International Education)
Code Title Hours
ELPS 405 Introduction to Educational Policy Analysis 3ELPS 448International Higher Education3
ELPS 455 Comparative Education 3ELPS 540Seminar in the History of Education3
ELPS 550 Seminar on Globalization and Education 3ELPS 555Seminar Comparative Education3
School of Communication
Code Title Hours
COMM 401 Foundations of Global Strategic Communication 3COMM 402Organizational Leadership and Change
Management3
COMM 422 Global and Multicultural Audiences and
Stakeholders3
School of Social Work
Code Title Hours
SOWK 502 Power, Oppression, Privilege, and Social Justice 3SOWK 654Global Social Work: Reflective Practice for Justice
and Peace3
SOWK 730 Immigration Dynamics and U.S. Social Policy 3SOWK 731Social Work Practice with Refugees and
Immigrants3
SOWK 732 Migration, Social Justice, and Human Rights 3SOWK 733North American Migration Dynamics, Challenges &
Opportunity1-3
School of Law 
Code Title Hours
LAW 176 International Trade Law 11-3LAW 371International Business Trans 11-3
LAW 372 International Law and Practice 3LAW 388Global Access to Medicine: A Patent Perspective3

--- Page 1061 ---
1092  Elementary Education/International Affairs (BSEd/MA)
LAW 459 Intro to English Legal Profession 1LAW 568European Union Law 11-3
1Explanatory note about 1, 2, 3, and variable credit hour courses from
the School of Law: “For the law courses showing a range of hours (e.g.,
1-3 credit hours), students have the option to choose the number of
credits for enrollment within the range. For students opting for the
higher credits (i.e., enrollment in 3 credit hours rather than 1 credit hour
would require additional assignments and/or an examination). If the
MA students in these courses need to be enrolled in 3 credit hours,
the following notation can be included with the course listing:  ‘MA
students must choose the 3 credit option for enrollment in this course’. ”
Please note that courses to be included in this MA program will require
students choosing the 3-credit option.
School of Law - Classes Offered at the John Felice Rome Center
Code Title Hours
PLAW 101 Comparative and Ethical Lawyering for the Rule of
Law3PLAW 102History, Theory and Practice of Rule of Law for
Development3
PLAW 103 Theory and Practice of Assessments in Rule of
Law Advising2PLAW 104International Development Architecture3
PLAW 105 Sustainable Development Through International
Commerce and Investment2PLAW 106Design of Rule of Law Programs and Proposal
Preparation2
PLAW 107 Rule of Law in Conflict Prevention and
Peacebuilding2PLAW 108Legal Systems and Methods3
PLAW 250 Research and Writing on the Rule of Law 3PLAW 907Rule of Law Project Management, Monitoring &
Evaluation3
Parkinson School of Health Sciences and Public Health
Code Title Hours
MPBH 400 Determinants of Population Health 3MPBH 414Introduction to Global Health3
MPBH 417 Global Maternal and Child Health 3MPBH 422Population Health Planning & Management3
MPBH 424 Health Economics and Healthcare Financing 3MPBH 432Health Impact Assessment3
Quinlan School of Business
Code Title Hours
ECON 424 International Business Economics 3FINC 455International Financial Management3
HRER 422 Global HR Management 3HRER 502Global Employment Relations3
MARK 465 International Marketing 3MARK 461Research Methods in Marketing3
MGMT 446 International Business Ethics 3SCMG 486Global Logistics3Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year One
Fall
TLSC 300A Professional Learning Communities 0TLSC 110The Profession and Our Program (TLLSC)1
TLSC 120 Bringing Language, Learning &
Development Theory into Practice2TLSC 130Sequence One: 130 Community Immersion1
UCWR 110 Writing Responsibly 3MATH 108Real World Modeling with Mathematics3
UNIV 101 First Year Seminar 1CORELiterary Knowledge & Experience Tier I3Submit all required documentation and background check prior to
program entry  Hours14
Spring
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities 1TLSC 140Teaching, Learning and Leading for Social
Justice1
TLSC 150 Constructive Learning Environments For
Diverse Students1TLSC 160Analyzing Culturally-Responsive Classroom
Instruction1
CIEP 104 Mathematics for Teachers I 3CIEP 206Children's Literature3
CORE Scientiﬁc Literacy Tier I 3COREHistorical Knowledge Tier I3 Hours16
Year Two
FallTLSC 300AProfessional Learning Communities0
TLSC 210 Educational Policy For Diverse Students 2TLSC 221Individualized Instruction and Assessment
for Diverse Learners2
TLSC 222 Authentic Assessment and Instruction for
Bilingual Learners2ELPS 219History of American Education3
CORE Theological & Religious Studies Tier I 3CORESocietal & Cultural Knowledge Tier I3 Hours15
SpringTLSC 300BProfessional Learning Communities1
CIEP 359 Teaching Reading 3CIEP 105Mathematics for Teachers II3
TLSC 231 Teaching Science/Writing in Elem and
Middle Grades3

--- Page 1062 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1093TLSC 232Integrated Teaching/Learning Social
Studies & Writing in Elementary Grades3
SCIENCE Earth Science Elective 3Take Elementary Content Area Test from IL Licensure Testing
Service  Hours16
Year Three
FallTLSC 300AProfessional Learning Communities0
TLSC 310 Language and Literacy for Diverse
Students2TLSC 320Using Classroom Data in a Collaborative
Env to Advance Student Achievement2
TLSC 330 Discipline-Speciﬁc Literacy for Diverse
Students2SCIENCELife Science Elective3
CORE Artistic Knowledge 3COREEthics3Apply for One-Year Internship by October 1  Hours15
Spring
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities 1TLSC 340Teaching and Learning in an Area of
Specialization2
TLSC 350 Teaching and Learning with a Global
Framework4PHYS 101Liberal Arts Physics3
PLSC 101 American Politics 3COREPhilosophical Knowledge Tier I3 Hours16
Year Four
FallTLSC 300AProfessional Learning Communities0
TLSC 360 Developing Rigorous and Relevant
Instruction & Assessment3TLSC 370Design&Implement Rigorous&Rlvnt
Instrctn&Assmt: Tching Perform Assmt
Prep3
ELPS 302 Philosophy of Education 3CORETheological and Religious Studies Tier II3
Two (2) International Affairs Electives  16Apply for May Graduation in LOCUS by October 1 Apply for Educational Teacher Performance Assessment (edTPA)
through Pearson Inc.  Hours18
Spring
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities 1TLSC 380Tching, Lrning & Leading with Schools &
Communities Internship: Stud Tching12
Must have passed Elementary Content Area Test prior to
Sequence 8 student teaching Must pass edTPA Two (2) International Affairs Courses  16 Hours19Year Five
FallThree (3) International Affairs Courses  19 Hours9
SpringThree (3) International Affairs Courses  19 Hours9 Total Hours147
1Students are expected to take two graduate-level courses in each
semester of their senior year and a total of six graduate-level courses
in their ﬁfth year. There is no required course sequence, but we strongly
suggest that students ﬁrst take the required courses ( PLSC 420
Comparative Political Systems , PLSC 430 Theories of International
Politics , and PLSC 475 Political Analysis I ) whenever they are offered
before taking elective courses.
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3

--- Page 1063 ---
1094  Elementary Education/International Affairs (BSEd/MA)
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towardsthe master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.

--- Page 1064 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1095
Learning Outcomes
Students will graduate from our program having achieved:
•a foundation for understanding and critiquing research related to
International Affairs, including methods training that leverages both
qualitative and quantitative data [International Affairs]
•knowledge of the principal theories of comparative politics and
international relations, as well as the key areas of research in these
two subﬁelds [International Affairs]
•an interdisciplinary understanding and appreciation of International
Affairs through coursework available within eight different
departments in the College of Arts and Sciences and four additional
Schools at Loyola [International Affairs]
•enhanced writing and critical thinking skills and dispositions through
class-based projects and a capstone experience [International Affairs]
•strengthened methods, research, or writing skills tailored to students
interests with advanced methods courses, language training, or the
writing of a master’s thesis. [International Affairs]
•You'll have accrued the equivalent of one year of full-time teaching
experience through all the hands-on, experiential learning
opportunities in Chicago's classrooms and community organizations,
so you will be ready to be at the head of your own classroom. With
the foundational knowledge from your Loyola education, you will
utilize theories, data, and research practices when making decisions
in your classroom and for your students and when assessing the
effectiveness of teaching on learning.  [Elementary Education]
English (BA/MA)
The English Department offers a ﬁve-year combined BA/MA degree.
Graduates of this program will be well prepared to pursue a PhD in
English, to apply to a professional school, or to seek a teaching position
at the post-secondary level. The combined degree will allow promising
and talented undergraduates to move quickly through the MA degree.
The program offers our best undergraduates access to the considerable
strengths of our strong and highly-regarded graduate programs. It will
give these English majors a signiﬁcant opportunity to test their skills and
develop professional insights, leading to stronger applications when it is
time for them to be considered by PhD programs elsewhere or for post-
secondary teaching positions, as well as in industries where an advanced
degree in English is sought (marketing, communications, editing, and
professional writing for example). While completing the equivalent of the
requirements for the BA in English, students in the ﬁve- year program will
receive signiﬁcantly more training in research skills and methods than
their counterparts who complete only the BA. They may also fulﬁll the
requirement for the undergraduate capstone course ( ENGL 390 Advanced
Seminar ) with a graduate seminar.
Students in the BA/MA program have two electives at the graduate
level, which may be used to take courses in another department or an
interdisciplinary program that offers a graduate degree, such as History,
Philosophy, or Women’s Studies and Gender Studies. The new MA in
Digital Humanities also provides opportunities for students in the BA/MA
program to take courses in textual scholarship.
Related Programs
Major
•English (BA)  (p. 404)Master's
•English (MA)  (p. 1603 )
Combined
•English (BA/BSED)  (p. 406)
Curriculum
For the Bachelors of Arts, twelve courses (36 hours) are required, nine of
which (27 hours) must be at the 300-level. Up to three elective courses
(9 hours) may be drawn from UCLR-E 100 and advanced 200-level (ENGL
270 and above) courses. At least one course must be among those
designated by the department as "multicultural. " The Advanced Seminar
(ENGL 390 ) is considered the capstone of the major.
The Master of Arts in English requires 30 semester hours of coursework
and a written examination. The program is designed so that a full-time
student can complete these requirements in a year and a half of study. 
Students start taking their Masters coursework in the senior year.  Three
to four 400-level courses may be used to count toward both Bachelors
and Masters requirements.
Required Courses
Code Title Hours
Bachelors of Arts RequirementsLiterary TheoryENGL 354 Contemporary Critical Theory 3
or ENGL 355 Studies in Literary CriticismShakespeareSelect one of the following:  13ENGL 326Shakespeare: Selected Major Plays 2ENGL 327 Studies in Shakespeare 2Capstone: Advanced SeminarENGL 390 Advanced Seminar 33English Literature Before 1900  (p. 1096 ) (See list)Select at least one course prior to 1700  43Select at least one course from 1700 to 19003
One additional course chosen from either of the previous categories 3English Literature Since 1900  (p. 1096 ) (See list)3
Elective Courses  (p.  )Complete ﬁve ENGL elective courses. Three or four 400-level courses
can be used to fulﬁll elective requirements for the Bachelors.15
Master of Arts RequirementsENGL 400Intro to Graduate Study3
Select Three (3) Courses in Literary Studies Courses  (p. 1096 ) 9At least one course must be in literature before 1800, and one in
literature after 1800.Select One Course in Critical Theory 3ENGL 406History of the English LanguageENGL 410 Contemporary Literary CriticismENGL 419Contemporary Issues in Literature and CultureENGL 420 Topics in Critical TheoryENGL 422Postcolonial TheoryENGL 423 Marxist Literary TheoryENGL 426Feminist Theory and CriticismENGL 427 Dramatic Theory

--- Page 1065 ---
1096  English (BA/MA)Select One Course in Textual Studies or Digital Humanities3
ENGL 412 History of the Book to 1800ENGL 413Textual CriticismENGL 415 Media and CultureSelect Four 400-Level ENGL Elective Courses  112Total Hours57
1Course descriptions for 400 level English courses can be found here
(p. 1600 ).  For students interested in taking an elective outside of the English
Department, please contact the Graduate Program Director.
English Literature Before 1900
Code Title Hours
English Courses Prior to 1700ENGL 306AStudies in Women Writers Before 17003
ENGL 312A Studies in World Literature in English Before 1700 3ENGL 313ABorder Literature Before 17003
ENGL 320 English Literature: Medieval Period 3ENGL 321Intro to Anglo-Saxon3
ENGL 322 Chaucer 3ENGL 323Studies in Medieval Literature3
ENGL 325 British Literature-The Renaissance 3ENGL 328Studies in The Renaissance3
ENGL 329 Milton 3ENGL 359AHigh and Low Culture Before 17003
ENGL 362A Studies in Poetry Before 1700 3ENGL 363AMajor Author, Before 17003
ENGL 368A Studies in Drama Before 1700 3ENGL 369AWomen in Drama Before 17003
ENGL 372A Studies in Fiction Before 1700 3ENGL 379AStudies in American Literature Before 17003
ENGL 381A Comparative Literature Before 1700 3ENGL 382AStudies in American Culture Before 17003
English Courses Between 1700 and 1900ENGL 306BStudies in Women Writers 1700-19003
ENGL 312B Studies in World Literature in English 1700-1900 3ENGL 313BBorder Literature 1700-19003
ENGL 335 British Literature - The Romantic Period 3ENGL 338Studies in The Romantic Movmnt3
ENGL 340 British Literature - The Victorian Period 3ENGL 343Studies in the Victorian Period3
ENGL 359B High and Low Culture 1700-1900 3ENGL 362BStudies in Poetry 1700-19003
ENGL 368B Studies in Drama 1700-1900 3ENGL 369BWomen in Drama 1700-19003
ENGL 372B Studies in Fiction 1700-1900 3ENGL 375American Literature to 18653
ENGL 376 American Literature 1865-1914 3ENGL 379BStudies in American Literature 1700-19003
ENGL 381B Comparative American Literature 1700 - 1900 3ENGL 382BStudies in American Culture 1700-19003
ENGL 384B Studies in African American Literature, 1700-1900 3 
English Literature Since 1900
Code Title Hours
ENGL 306C Studies in Women Writers Since 1900 3ENGL 311U.S. Latino/a Literature3
ENGL 312C Studies in World Literature in English Since 1900 3ENGL 313CBorder Literature Since 19003
ENGL 315C South Asian Literature Since 1900 3ENGL 316CCaribbean Literature in English Since 19003
ENGL 344 Studies in Modernism 3ENGL 345British Literature Since 19003
ENGL 348 Studies in British Literature Since 1900 3ENGL 351Contemporary Literature3
ENGL 359C High and Low Culture Since 1900 3ENGL 361Modernist Poetry3
ENGL 362C Studies in Poetry Since 1900 3ENGL 363CMajor Author, After 19003
ENGL 367 Modern Drama 3ENGL 368CStudies in Drama Since 19003
ENGL 371 The Modern Novel 3ENGL 372CStudies in Fiction Since 19003
ENGL 377 American Literature 1914-1945 3ENGL 379CStudies in American Literature Since 19003
ENGL 381C Comparative American Literature Since 1900 3ENGL 382CStudies in American Culture Since 19003
ENGL 384C Studies in African American Literature Since 1900 3
Literary Studies Courses
Code Title Hours
ENGL 428 Postmodernism 3ENGL 430Topics in Literature Studies3
ENGL 436 Women Writers in English 3ENGL 433Seminar in Individual Authors3
ENGL 437 Topics in Drama 3ENGL 440Topics in Medieval Literature3
ENGL 441 Old English Language & Literature 3ENGL 443Middle English Literature3
ENGL 444 Medieval Drama 3ENGL 447Chaucer3
ENGL 450 Topics in Early Modern Literature & Culture 3ENGL 455Shakespeare3
ENGL 456 Early Modern Drama 3ENGL 457Seventeenth-Century Literature3
ENGL 458 Milton 3ENGL 460Topics in Restoration & 18th Century Literature3
ENGL 466 Eighteenth-Century Novel 3ENGL 470Topics in Romanticism3
ENGL 471 Poetry of Romantic Period 3ENGL 475Topics in Victorian Literature3
ENGL 476 Victorian Poetry 3ENGL 477Victorian Prose3
ENGL 478 Victorian Novel 3

--- Page 1066 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1097ENGL 480Topics in Modernism3
ENGL 481 Modern Poetry 3ENGL 482Modern Drama3
ENGL 483 Modern Novel 3ENGL 484Literature and Culture of the Jazz Age3
ENGL 485 Contemporary Literature 3ENGL 487Postcolonial Literature3
ENGL 488 20th Century Literature in English 3ENGL 489Magic Realism3
ENGL 490 Topics in American Literature 3ENGL 491Early American Literature3
ENGL 492 American Romanticism 3ENGL 493American Realism3
ENGL 494 American Literature Since 1914 3ENGL 495Latino/a Literature3
ENGL 496 African American Literature 3
  MA Qualifying Examination
All students will take a four-hour written examination at the end of their
course work. The exam is given during the last week of second summer
term in August, and the ﬁrst day of exam week in December and May.
The exam will be prepared and graded by a four-member MA examining
committee using a standard set of questions, each testing a particular
skill. Faculty teaching graduate seminars in any one year will submit a
short list of required readings (literary, critical, and theoretical) from their
courses. From that list, the examining committee will form a master list
of major texts to be used by students in answering the exam questions.
The short lists will be shared with students prior to the exam, the master
list will not.
The exam will be graded as High Pass, Pass, Low Pass or Fail. The
minimum requirements for the MA degree will be a Low Pass on the exam
and a B average in all course work. MA students who fail the exam may
retake it once, at the conclusion of the following semester. PhD students
who fail the exam may also retake it once, but only to complete the MA
degree: they will not be allowed to continue in the program.
The MA exam serves as both a requirement for the master’s degree and
a qualifying exam for students intending to proceed toward the PhD.
The Committee on Graduate Programs will consider the performance of
such students in all facets of the MA program; however, the MA exam is
designed as a key indicator of students’ ability to continue work toward
the PhD.
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upona positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most

--- Page 1067 ---
1098  English (BA/MA)
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate levelcourse to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
Graduates of the program will be able to:
•perform close readings of literature and other kinds of texts, paying
careful attention to textual detail. [BA]
•demonstrate an understanding of human diversity as it is represented
in literature and other kinds of texts. [BA]
•communicate their ideas clearly, in writing that employs appropriate
word choice, diction, structure, and mechanics. [BA]
•create focused and well-supported arguments and analyses. [BA]
•where applicable, demonstrate their understanding of literary and
cultural theories by incorporating them into their work in precise and
effective ways. [BA]
•where applicable, demonstrate their ability to employ in their own
creative works their understanding of the conventions and techniques
of particular literary genres. [BA]
•where applicable, demonstrate their knowledge of textual genres,
histories, movements, traditions, and innovations. [BA]
•demonstrate an understanding of how texts reflect and affect
societies and cultures. [BA]
•Write effectively about a broad range of texts in English using
effective compositional and rhetorical techniques. [MA]
•Assess and intervene in existing scholarly discourses in the ﬁeld as a
literary critic. [MA]
•Distinguish and interpret diverse experiences across various social
formations (race, class, gender, sexuality, ability, etc.) as registered in
literary works. [MA]
•Evaluate and apply the principles of a range of critical and textual
theories, including those emerging from communities that have
been historically underrepresented, in order to produce a sustained
analysis of literary works. [MA]

--- Page 1068 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1099
Environmental Economics &
Sustainability: Governance/
Environmental Science and
Sustainability (BA/MS)
The BA Environmental Economics & Sustainability - Governance
and the MS Environmental Science & Sustainability (MSESS) allows
undergraduate students the opportunity to continue their graduate
education while remaining within SES and Loyola.
Related Programs
Major
•Environmental Economics Sustainability: Governance (BA)  (p. 930)
•Environmental Economics Sustainability: Management (BA)  (p. 931)
Combined
•Environmental Economics Sustainability: Management/
Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)  (p. 1103 )
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
BA RequirementsEnvironmental Economics & Sustainability: Governance CoreECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics 3ECON 202Principles of Macroeconomics3
ECON 303 Intermediate Microeconomics 3ENVS 137Foundations of Environmental Science I3
ENVS 200 Environmental Careers and Professional Skills 1ENVS 237Foundations of Environmental Chemistry3
ENVS 238 Foundations of Environmental Science Lab 1ENVS 280Principles of Ecology3
ENVS 283 Environmental Sustainability 3ENVS 284Environmental Justice3or PHIL 287Environmental Ethicsor THEO 204Religious Ethics and the Ecological Crisis
ENVS 286 Principles of Ecology Lab 1ENVS 335Ecological Economics3
MATH 130 Business Calculus 3-4
or MATH 131 Applied Calculus I
or MATH 161 Calculus IPLSC 392Environmental Politics3
STAT 103 Fundamentals of Statistics 3
or ISSCM 241 Business Statistics
or ENVS 203 Environmental StatisticsGovernance Concentration Required CoursesECON 328 Environmental Economics 3ENVS 310Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy3
Capstone ChoiceENVS 390Integrative Seminar3or ENVS 391CIndependent Environmental Research (Capstone)or ENVS 395CEnvironmental Internship (Capstone)
Governance Concentration Electives  (p. 1099 ) 12See designated elective caterogies belowMS RequirementsRequired CoursesENVS 401 Sustainable Systems - Natural Science
Perspectives3ENVS 402Sustainable Systems - Social Science Perspectives3
Track Speciﬁc Curricula 24Research Track CurriculumElectivesStudents choose 12 credit hours of electives from either of the
following in conjunction with their advisor:Natural Science and Quantitative Electives; or  (p. 1100 )Sustainable Society and Business Electives  (p. 1101 )Thesis ResearchStudents take 12 credit hours of research to design and conduct
research thesis work under the guidance of a thesis advisor
and thesis committee. Research track students are required to
complete and defend their thesis to graduate.ENVS 496 ResearchENVS 595Thesis SupervisionProfessional Track CurriculumStudents choose from one of the following concentration areas:
Environmental Law and Policy, Geographic Information Systems,
Sustainable Assessment Planning, or Sustainable Business
(p. 1100 )ElectivesStudents choose electives from either of the following lists in
conjunction with their advisors to complete requirements:Natural Science and Quantitative Electives; or  (p. 1100 )Sustainable Society and Business Electives  (p. 1101 )Total Hours78-79
Up to 12 credit hours taken at the 400 level may be shared between the
undergraduate and graduate program. See the Suggested Sequence
information below.
BA Electives
Code Title Hours
List ASelect two of the following:6
ECON 320 Urban EconomicsECON 325Economics of Growth & DevelopmentECON 329 Health EconomicsECON 334Economics of Government Expenditures &
TaxationECON 346 EconometricsList BSelect two of the following: 6ENVS 311Natural Resources and Land Use Law & PolicyENVS 312 Water Law & PolicyENVS 313Energy Law & PolicyENVS 327 Food Systems AnalysisENVS 384Conservation EconomicsTotal Hours12

--- Page 1069 ---
1100  Environmental Economics & Sustainability: Governance/Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)
MS Professional Track Curriculum Concentrations
Environmental Law and Policy
This Concentration provides essential knowledge in relevant areas
of environmental law and policy for professionals who want to better
understand the role of government, industry, non-proﬁt, and other
institutions involved in environmental advocacy, consulting, and
compliance.
Code Title Hours
ENVS 410 Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy 3ENVS 411Natural Resources and Land Use Law & Policy3
ENVS 412 Water Law & Policy 3ENVS 413Energy Law & Policy3
Natural Science and Quantitative Elective 3Natural Science and Quantitative Elective3
Environmental Elective 3Environmental Elective3Total Hours24
Geographic Information Systems (GIS)
This Concentration provides essential knowledge on Geographic
Information Systems (GIS) - a compilation of sophisticated,
multidimensional software and tools used to capture, store, analyze,
manage and present geospatial data. This curriculum provides essential
training in the fundamental principles and concepts behind cont emporary
geographic mapping technology needed to solve complex geospatial
problems commonly encountered in environmental sciences, urban
planning, social sciences, public health, as well as business, engineering,
and many more ﬁelds.
Code Title Hours
ENVS 480 Introduction to Geographic Information Systems 3ENVS 481Advanced GIS Applications3
ENVS 482 Remote Sensing 3Environmental Electives15Total Hours24
Sustainable Assessment & Planning
This Concentration delivers valuable skills for professionals who want to
better understand how organizations can - and do – measure, regulate
and report their own natural resource use. Students will develop essential
skills used by sustainability professionals in government, industry, non-
proﬁt, and other institutions striving to improve and document their
sustainability impact.
Code Title Hours
ENVS 451 Introduction to Sustainability Concepts & Impacts 3ENVS 452Sustainability Assessment & Reporting I3
ENVS 453 Sustainability Assessment & Reporting II 3ENVS 454Sustainability Plan Development & Reporting3Environmental Electives12Total Hours24
Sustainable Business
Code Title Hours
ENVS 433 Introduction to the Circular Economy 3ENVS 435Ecological Economics3
ENVS 436 Design for Circular & Sustainable Business 3ENVS 463Sustainable Business Management3
Natural Science and Quantitative Elective 3Environmental Electives9Total Hours24
MS Natural Science and Quantitative Courses
Work with your advisor to choose from our many courses to best advance
your individual interests.
Code Title Hours
BIOL 416 Limnology Lec/Lab 4BIOL 418Aquatic Insects Lecture & Laboratory4
BIOL 470 Biostats & Exp Design Lec/Lab 4BIOL 495Special Topics1-4
ENVS 420 Conservation Biology 3ENVS 422Invasive Species3
ENVS 423 Environmental Microbiology 3ENVS 425Sustainable Agriculture3
ENVS 426 Agroecosystems 3ENVS 427Food Systems Analysis3
ENVS 430 Restoration Ecology 3ENVS 435Ecological Economics3
ENVS 438 Climate Change and Human Health 3ENVS 451Introduction to Sustainability Concepts & Impacts3
ENVS 452 Sustainability Assessment & Reporting I 3ENVS 453Sustainability Assessment & Reporting II3
ENVS 454 Sustainability Plan Development & Reporting 3ENVS 480Introduction to Geographic Information Systems3
ENVS 481 Advanced GIS Applications 3ENVS 482Remote Sensing3
ENVS 484 Conservation Economics 3ENVS 487Principles of Ecotoxicology3
ENVS 489 Ecological Risk Assessment 3ENVS 491Independent Environmental Research (upon
approval)1-4
ENVS 495 Environmental Internship 3ENVS 498Special Topics (upon approval)1-12
ENVS 498L Special Topics with Lab (upon approval) 1-4ENVS 499Directed Readings (upon approval)1-3
MPBH 400 Determinants of Population Health 3MPBH 401Environmental Health3
MPBH 403 Introduction to Epidemiology 3MPBH 404Biostatistics for Health and Biological Science3
MPBH 407 Public Health Policy: Concepts and Practice 3MPBH 409Biostatistics I3
MPBH 412 Intro to Statistical Computing for Public Health 1-3MPBH 414Introduction to Global Health3
MPBH 421 Biostatistics II 3MPBH 423Intermediate Epidemiology3
MPP 401 Analytical Tools in Public Policy 3MPP 402Cost Beneﬁt Analysis3
MPP 403 Public Budget and Finance 3MPP 405Statistical Methods & Analysis for Public Policy I3

--- Page 1070 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1101
MPP 406 Statistical Methods & Analysis Public Policy II 3MPP 408Political Feasibility Analysis3
SOCL 414 Statistical Methods Analysis I 3SOCL 415Statistical Methods of Analysis II3
STAT 403 SAS Program & Applied Statistics 3STAT 407Statistical Design3
STAT 436 Topics in Biostatistics 3
MS Sustainable Society and Business Electives
Work with your advisor to choose from our many courses to best advance
your individual interests.
Code Title Hours
ENVS 410 Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy 3ENVS 411Natural Resources and Land Use Law & Policy3
ENVS 412 Water Law & Policy 3ENVS 413Energy Law & Policy3
ENVS 433 Introduction to the Circular Economy 3ENVS 436Design for Circular & Sustainable Business3
ENVS 454 Sustainability Plan Development & Reporting 3ENVS 463Sustainable Business Management3
ENVS 483 Human Dimensions of Conservation 3ENVS 491Independent Environmental Research (upon
approval)1-4
ENVS 495 Environmental Internship 3ENVS 498Special Topics (upon approval)1-12
ENVS 499 Directed Readings (upon approval) 1-3MPBH 407Public Health Policy: Concepts and Practice3
MPP 400 Policy Design and Analysis 3MPP 404Public Policy Process3
PSYC 460 Social Psychological Theory 3PSYC 461Attitude and Attitude Change3
PSYC 486 Methods of Program Evaluation 3SOCL 412Qualitative Methods in Social Research3
SOCL 446 Knowledge, Power & Expertise 3SOCL 463Sociology & Natural Environment3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
Course Title Hours
Freshman
FallENVS 137Foundations of Environmental Science I3 Hours3
Spring
ENVS 237 Foundations of Environmental Chemistry 3ENVS 238Foundations of Environmental Science Lab1
ENVS 203 
or ISSCM 241 
or STAT 103Environmental Statistics 
or Business Statistics 
or Fundamentals of Statistics3Justice and Ethics Choice3 Hours10Sophomore
FallECON 201Principles of Microeconomics3
ENVS 200 Environmental Careers and Professional
Skills1ENVS 280Principles of Ecology3ENVS 286Principles of Ecology Lab1 Hours8
SpringECON 202Principles of Macroeconomics3 Hours3
Junior
Fall
ECON 328 Environmental Economics 3ENVS 283Environmental Sustainability3MATH 130 
or MATH 131 
or MATH 161Business Calculus 
or Applied Calculus I 
or Calculus I3-4 Hours9-10
Spring
ECON 303 Intermediate Microeconomics 3PLSC 392Environmental Politics3 Hours6
Senior
FallENVS 410Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy3
ENVS 435 Ecological Economics 3List A Elective3List B Elective (400-Level version)3 Hours12
Spring
Capstone Choice 3ENVS 401Sustainable Systems - Natural Science
Perspectives3
List A Elective 3List B Elective (400-Level course)3 Hours12
Master's
FallENVS 402Sustainable Systems - Social Science
Perspectives3
ENVS 400-Level Concentration Course 3ENVS 400-Level Concentration Course3 Hours9
SpringENVS 400-Level Concentration Course3ENVS 400-Level Concentration Course3 Hours6 Total Hours78-79

--- Page 1071 ---
1102  Environmental Economics & Sustainability: Governance/Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate

--- Page 1072 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1103
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•Explain the interconnections between human development, the
economy, and the environment. [BA]
•Understand how economic theory and analysis can be used to
evaluate social and economic outcomes. [BA]
•Describe how policy affects business and economic activity to
achieve human development and environmental sustainability goals.
[BA]
•Analyze how policy interventions can shift an economy to achieve a
balance of ecological and socioeconomic objectives. [BA]
•Deepen your understanding of complex socio-ecological systems and
their connection with sustainable development goals. [MS]
•Increase your ability to make accurate and ethical evidence-based
decisions from scientiﬁc literature. [MS]
•Expand your capacity to communicate environmental science and
sustainability issues to the scientiﬁc community, professional
colleagues, policy makers, and the general public. [MS]•Demonstrate competence of in-depth knowledge and skills through
completion of an original research project and thesis. [MS]
Environmental Economics &
Sustainability: Management/
Environmental Science and
Sustainability (BA/MS)
The BA Environmental Economics & Sustainability - Management
and the MS Environmental Science & Sustainability (MSESS) allows
undergraduate students the opportunity to continue their graduate
education while remaining within SES and Loyola.
Related Programs
Major
•Environmental Economics Sustainability: Governance (BA)  (p. 930)
•Environmental Economics Sustainability: Management (BA)  (p. 931)
Combined
•Environmental Economics Sustainability: Governance/Environmental
Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)  (p. 1099 )
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
BA RequirementsEnvironmental Economics & Sustainability: Management CoreECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics 3ECON 202Principles of Macroeconomics3
ECON 303 Intermediate Microeconomics 3ENVS 137Foundations of Environmental Science I3
ENVS 200 Environmental Careers and Professional Skills 1ENVS 237Foundations of Environmental Chemistry3
ENVS 238 Foundations of Environmental Science Lab 1ENVS 280Principles of Ecology3
ENVS 283 Environmental Sustainability 3ENVS 284Environmental Justice3or PHIL 287Environmental Ethicsor THEO 204Religious Ethics and the Ecological Crisis
ENVS 286 Principles of Ecology Lab 1ENVS 335Ecological Economics3
MATH 130 Business Calculus 3-4
or MATH 131 Applied Calculus I
or MATH 161 Calculus IPLSC 392Environmental Politics3
STAT 103 Fundamentals of Statistics 3
or ISSCM 241 Business Statistics
or ENVS 203 Environmental StatisticsManagement Concentration Required CoursesENVS 363 Sustainable Business Management 3MGMT 201Managing People and Organizations3
Capstone ChoiceENVS 390Integrative Seminar3

--- Page 1073 ---
1104  Environmental Economics & Sustainability: Management/Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)or ENVS 391CIndependent Environmental Research (Capstone)or ENVS 395CEnvironmental Internship (Capstone)
Management Concentration Electives  (p. 1104 ) 12See designated elective caterogies belowMS RequirementsRequired CoursesENVS 401 Sustainable Systems - Natural Science
Perspectives3ENVS 402Sustainable Systems - Social Science Perspectives3
Track Speciﬁc Curricula 24Research Track CurriculumElectivesStudents choose 12 credit hours of electives from either of the
following in conjunction with their advisor:Natural Science and Quantitative Electives; or  (p. 1105 )Sustainable Society and Business Electives  (p. 1105 )Thesis ResearchStudents take 12 credit hours of research to design and conduct
research thesis work under the guidance of a thesis advisor
and thesis committee. Research track students are required to
complete and defend their thesis to graduate.ENVS 496 ResearchENVS 595Thesis SupervisionProfessional Track CurriculumStudents choose from one of the following concentration areas:
Environmental Law and Policy, Geographic Information Systems,
Sustainable Assessment Planning, or Sustainable Business
(p. 1104 )ElectivesStudents choose electives from either of the following lists in
conjunction with their advisors to complete requirements:Natural Science and Quantitative Electives; or  (p. 1105 )Sustainable Society and Business Electives  (p. 1105 )Total Hours78-79
Up to 12 credit hours taken at the 400 level may be shared between the
undergraduate and graduate program. See the Suggested Sequence
information below.
BA Electives
Code Title Hours
List ASelect two of the following:6
ECON 328 Environmental EconomicsECON 346EconometricsECON 360 Labor EconomicsMARK 320Marketing for Environmental SustainabilitySCMG 346 Sustainable Supply ChainList BSelect two of the following: 6ENVS 333Introduction to the Circular EconomyENVS 336 Design for Circular & Sustainable BusinessENVS 384Conservation EconomicsTotal Hours12 
MS Professional Track Curriculum Concentrations
Environmental Law and Policy
This Concentration provides essential knowledge in relevant areas
of environmental law and policy for professionals who want to better
understand the role of government, industry, non-proﬁt, and other
institutions involved in environmental advocacy, consulting, and
compliance.
Code Title Hours
ENVS 410 Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy 3ENVS 411Natural Resources and Land Use Law & Policy3
ENVS 412 Water Law & Policy 3ENVS 413Energy Law & Policy3
Natural Science and Quantitative Electives 6Environmental Electives6Total Hours24
Geographic Information Systems (GIS)
This Concentration provides essential knowledge on Geographic
Information Systems (GIS) - a compilation of sophisticated,
multidimensional software and tools used to capture, store, analyze,
manage and present geospatial data. This curriculum provides essential
training in the fundamental principles and concepts behind cont emporary
geographic mapping technology needed to solve complex geospatial
problems commonly encountered in environmental sciences, urban
planning, social sciences, public health, as well as business, engineering,
and many more ﬁelds.
Code Title Hours
ENVS 480 Introduction to Geographic Information Systems 3ENVS 481Advanced GIS Applications3
ENVS 482 Remote Sensing 3Environmental Electives15Total Hours24
Sustainable Assessment & Planning
This Concentration delivers valuable skills for professionals who want to
better understand how organizations can - and do – measure, regulate
and report their own natural resource use. Students will develop essential
skills used by sustainability professionals in government, industry, non-
proﬁt, and other institutions striving to improve and document their
sustainability impact.
Code Title Hours
ENVS 451 Introduction to Sustainability Concepts & Impacts 3ENVS 452Sustainability Assessment & Reporting I3
ENVS 453 Sustainability Assessment & Reporting II 3ENVS 454Sustainability Plan Development & Reporting3Environmental Electives12Total Hours24
Sustainable Business 
Code Title Hours
ENVS 433 Introduction to the Circular Economy 3ENVS 435Ecological Economics3
ENVS 436 Design for Circular & Sustainable Business 3ENVS 463Sustainable Business Management3

--- Page 1074 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1105
Natural Science and Quantitative Elective 3Environmental Electives9Total Hours24
MS Natural Science and Quantitative Courses
Work with your advisor to choose from our many courses to best advance
your individual interests.
Code Title Hours
BIOL 416 Limnology Lec/Lab 4BIOL 418Aquatic Insects Lecture & Laboratory4
BIOL 470 Biostats & Exp Design Lec/Lab 4BIOL 495Special Topics1-4
ENVS 420 Conservation Biology 3ENVS 422Invasive Species3
ENVS 423 Environmental Microbiology 3ENVS 425Sustainable Agriculture3
ENVS 426 Agroecosystems 3ENVS 427Food Systems Analysis3
ENVS 430 Restoration Ecology 3ENVS 435Ecological Economics3
ENVS 438 Climate Change and Human Health 3ENVS 451Introduction to Sustainability Concepts & Impacts3
ENVS 452 Sustainability Assessment & Reporting I 3ENVS 453Sustainability Assessment & Reporting II3
ENVS 454 Sustainability Plan Development & Reporting 3ENVS 480Introduction to Geographic Information Systems3
ENVS 481 Advanced GIS Applications 3ENVS 482Remote Sensing3
ENVS 484 Conservation Economics 3ENVS 487Principles of Ecotoxicology3
ENVS 489 Ecological Risk Assessment 3ENVS 491Independent Environmental Research (upon
approval)1-4
ENVS 495 Environmental Internship 3ENVS 498Special Topics (upon approval)1-12
ENVS 498L Special Topics with Lab (upon approval) 1-4ENVS 499Directed Readings (upon approval)1-3
MPBH 400 Determinants of Population Health 3MPBH 401Environmental Health3
MPBH 403 Introduction to Epidemiology 3MPBH 404Biostatistics for Health and Biological Science3
MPBH 407 Public Health Policy: Concepts and Practice 3MPBH 409Biostatistics I3
MPBH 412 Intro to Statistical Computing for Public Health 1-3MPBH 414Introduction to Global Health3
MPBH 421 Biostatistics II 3MPBH 423Intermediate Epidemiology3
MPP 401 Analytical Tools in Public Policy 3MPP 402Cost Beneﬁt Analysis3
MPP 403 Public Budget and Finance 3MPP 405Statistical Methods & Analysis for Public Policy I3
MPP 406 Statistical Methods & Analysis Public Policy II 3MPP 408Political Feasibility Analysis3
SOCL 414 Statistical Methods Analysis I 3SOCL 415Statistical Methods of Analysis II3
STAT 403 SAS Program & Applied Statistics 3STAT 407Statistical Design3
STAT 436 Topics in Biostatistics 3
MS Sustainable Society and Business Electives
Work with your advisor to choose from our many courses to best advance
your individual interests.
Code Title Hours
ENVS 410 Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy 3ENVS 411Natural Resources and Land Use Law & Policy3
ENVS 412 Water Law & Policy 3ENVS 413Energy Law & Policy3
ENVS 433 Introduction to the Circular Economy 3ENVS 436Design for Circular & Sustainable Business3
ENVS 454 Sustainability Plan Development & Reporting 3ENVS 463Sustainable Business Management3
ENVS 483 Human Dimensions of Conservation 3ENVS 491Independent Environmental Research (upon
approval)1-4
ENVS 495 Environmental Internship 3ENVS 498Special Topics (upon approval)1-12
ENVS 499 Directed Readings (upon approval) 1-3MPBH 407Public Health Policy: Concepts and Practice3
MPP 400 Policy Design and Analysis 3MPP 404Public Policy Process3
PSYC 460 Social Psychological Theory 3PSYC 461Attitude and Attitude Change3
PSYC 486 Methods of Program Evaluation 3SOCL 412Qualitative Methods in Social Research3
SOCL 446 Knowledge, Power & Expertise 3SOCL 463Sociology & Natural Environment3
Suggested Sequence of Courses 
Course Title Hours
Freshman
FallENVS 137Foundations of Environmental Science I3 Hours3
Spring
ENVS 237 Foundations of Environmental Chemistry 3ENVS 238Foundations of Environmental Science Lab1
ENVS 203 Environmental Statistics 3Justice and Ethics Choice3 Hours10
Sophomore
FallECON 201Principles of Microeconomics3
ENVS 200 Environmental Careers and Professional
Skills1

--- Page 1075 ---
1106  Environmental Economics & Sustainability: Management/Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)ENVS 280Principles of Ecology3ENVS 286Principles of Ecology Lab1 Hours8
SpringECON 202Principles of Macroeconomics3 Hours3
Junior
Fall
MGMT 201 Managing People and Organizations 3MATH 130 
or MATH 131 
or MATH 161Business Calculus 
or Applied Calculus I 
or Calculus I3-4 Hours6-7
SpringECON 303Intermediate Microeconomics3PLSC 392Environmental Politics3 Hours6
Senior
Fall
ENVS 283 Environmental Sustainability 3ENVS 435Ecological Economics3
List A Elective 3List B Elective (400-Level version)3 Hours12
SpringCapstone Choice3
ENVS 463 Sustainable Business Management 3List A Elective3List B Elective (400-Level course)3 Hours12
Master's
Fall
ENVS 402 Sustainable Systems - Social Science
Perspectives3ENVS 400-Level Concentration Course3ENVS 400-Level Concentration Course3 Hours9
Spring
ENVS 401 Sustainable Systems - Natural Science
Perspectives3ENVS 400-Level Concentration Course3ENVS 400-Level Concentration Course3 Hours9 Total Hours78-79
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  •Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.

--- Page 1076 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1107
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•Explain the interconnection between human development, the
economy, and the environment [BA]
•Understand how economic theory and analysis can be used to
evaluate social and economic outcomes [BA]
•Analyze how businesses can integrate environmental and social
considerations into decision-making that aligns ﬁnancial with
environmental sustainability [BA]
•Describe the impacts of business and industry on social outcomes,
the economy, and environmental sustainability [BA]
•Deepen your understanding of complex socio-ecological systems and
their connection with sustainable development goals [MA]
•Increase your ability to make accurate and ethical evidence-based
decisions from scientiﬁc literature [MA]
•Expand your capacity to communicate environmental science and
sustainability issues to the scientiﬁc community, professional
colleagues, policy makers, and the general public [MA]
•Demonstrate competence of in-depth knowledge and skills through
completion of an original research project and thesis [MA]

--- Page 1077 ---
1108  Environmental Policy/Digital Media and Storytelling (BA/MC)
Environmental Policy/Digital Media
and Storytelling (BA/MC)
The new Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's (ABM) program allows SES
students to earn their undergraduate degree in their declared major, while
also earning a master’s degree from the SOC in either the Digital Media
and Storytelling or Global Strategic Communication graduate programs.
The program trains environmental scientists to be better communicators.
While environmental scientists are trained to investigate, analyze data,
and interpret results, they are not taught how to communicate their
results and conclusions in ways that are readily accessible to the general
public, CEOs, or legislators. For students in the School of Environmental
Sustainability, the ABM program will help them with writing, public
speaking, conference presentations, television and radio interviews, and
social media messaging.
Related Programs
Combined
•Environmental Science/Digital Media and Storytelling (BS/MC)
(p. 1133 )
•Environmental Studies/Digital Media and Storytelling (BA/MC)
(p. 1171 )
Curriculum
Environmental Policy students complete coursework spanning a variety
of disciplines pertinent to the understanding of environmental issues.
Code Title Hours
Core CurriculumENVS 137Foundations of Environmental Science I3
ENVS 237 Foundations of Environmental Chemistry 3ENVS 238Foundations of Environmental Science Lab1
ENVS 200 Environmental Careers and Professional Skills 1ENVS 203Environmental Statistics3
ENVS 280 Principles of Ecology 3ENVS 286Principles of Ecology Lab1
ENVS 310 Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy 3PLSC 101American Politics3
PLSC 392 Environmental Politics 3Justice and Ethics ChoiceSelect one of the following: 3ENVS 284Environmental JusticePHIL 287 Environmental EthicsTHEO 204Religious Ethics and the Ecological CrisisEconomics ChoiceSelect one of the following:ENVS 335 Ecological Economics 3
or ECON 328 Environmental EconomicsEngaged Learning ChoiceSelect one of the following: 3ENVS 226Science & Conservation of Freshwater EcosystemsENVS 267 Bird Conservation and EcologyENVS 369Field OrnithologyENVS 273 Energy and the EnvironmentENVS 283Environmental SustainabilityENVS 340 Natural History of BelizeENVS 345Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
EcosystemsENVS 350A Solutions to Environmental Problems: WaterENVS 350BSolutions to Environmental Problems: BiogasENVS 350C Solutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
ActionENVS 350FSolutions to Environmental Problems: Food
SystemsENVS 391 Environmental ResearchENVS 395Environmental InternshipCapstone ChoiceSelect one of the following:3
ENVS 390 Integrative SeminarENVS 391CIndependent Environmental Research (Capstone)ENVS 395C Environmental Internship (Capstone)Electives  (p. 1108 )18
See designated elective categories belowMC RequirementsCOMM 400 Designing for Digital Environments 3COMM 405Story Development and Production3
COMM 410 Media Law for Inclusive Digital Storytelling 3COMM 415Data-Powered Digital Storytelling3
COMM 420 Digital Production: Storytelling with Impact 3COMM 425Digital Marketing and Analytics3
COMM 430 2D Design for Print and the Web 3COMM 450Capstone II3Elective Courses from List of Electives for DMST  (p. 1110 )12Total Hours90
Electives for Environmental Policy
Code Title Hours
Society, Ethics, and JusticeSelect one of the following:3
ENVS 204 Gender, Health & EnvironmentENVS 279Climate and HistoryENVS 284 Environmental JusticeENVS 297North American Environmental HistoryENVS 298 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 338Climate Change and Human HealthENVS 350A Solutions to Environmental Problems: WaterENVS 350BSolutions to Environmental Problems: BiogasENVS 350C Solutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
ActionENVS 350FSolutions to Environmental Problems: Food
SystemsENVS 383 Human Dimensions of ConservationENVS 391Environmental Research (with SES approval)ENVS 395 Environmental Internship (with SES approval)ENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399 Directed Readings (with SES approval)COMM 101Public Speaking & Critical Thinking

--- Page 1078 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1109
COMM 260 Environmental JournalismCOMM 277Organizational CommunicationCOMM 306 Environmental AdvocacyCOMM 322Guerilla MediaCOMM 379 Digital SustainabilityENGL 288Nature in LiteraturePHIL 287 Environmental EthicsPSYC 277Environmental PsychologySOCL 226 Science, Technology, & SocietySOCL 252Global InequalitiesSOCL 272 Environmental SociologySOCL 276The Sociology and Politics of FoodSOCL 278 Global HealthTHEO 204Religious Ethics and the Ecological CrisisTHEO 344 Theology and EcologyPolicy, Economics, and Resource ManagementSelect two of the following: 6ENVS 298Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 300 Introduction to Public HealthENVS 311Natural Resources and Land Use Law & PolicyENVS 312 Water Law & PolicyENVS 313Energy Law & PolicyENVS 327 Food Systems AnalysisENVS 332ENVS 333 Introduction to the Circular EconomyENVS 335Ecological EconomicsENVS 336 Design for Circular & Sustainable BusinessENVS 338Climate Change and Human HealthENVS 363 Sustainable Business ManagementENVS 364ENVS 383 Human Dimensions of ConservationENVS 384Conservation EconomicsENVS 389 Ecological Risk AssessmentENVS 391Environmental Research (with SES approval)ENVS 395 Environmental Internship (with SES approval)ENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399 Directed Readings (with SES approval)ECON 328Environmental EconomicsGLST 305 Globalization and Environmental SustainabilityMGMT 201Managing People and OrganizationsPLSC 354 Global Environmental PoliticsMethods and AnalysisSelect one of the following: 3COMM 260Environmental JournalismENVS 298 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 327Food Systems AnalysisENVS 352 Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IENVS 353Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IIENVS 354 Sustainability Plan Development & ReportingENVS 380Introduction to Geographic Information SystemsENVS 381 Advanced GIS ApplicationsENVS 382Remote SensingENVS 384 Conservation EconomicsENVS 388ENVS 389 Ecological Risk AssessmentENVS 391Environmental ResearchENVS 395 Environmental InternshipENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399 Directed ReadingsANTH 317Ethnographic MethodsBIOL 335 Intro to BiostatisticsCOMM 231Conflict Management and CommunicationCOMM 234 Interviewing for CommunicationCOMM 277Organizational CommunicationCOMM 363 Research Methods in Advertising/Public RelationsMARK 320Marketing for Environmental SustainabilitySOCL 206 Principles of Social ResearchSOCL 301Statistics for Social ResearchSOCL 302 Qualitative ResearchSTAT 203Introduction to Probability & StatisticsSTAT 303 SAS Programming & Applied StatisticsEnvironmental ElectivesSelect two of the following: 6COMM 260Environmental JournalismENVS 204 Gender, Health & EnvironmentENVS 207Plants and CivilizationENVS 215 /
BIOL 215OrnithologyENVS 218Biodiversity & BiogeographyENVS 223 Soil EcologyENVS 224Climate & Climate ChangeENVS 226 Science & Conservation of Freshwater EcosystemsENVS 227REcology of the Mediterranean SeaENVS 267 Bird Conservation and EcologyENVS 273Energy and the EnvironmentENVS 274 Chemistry of the Natural EnvironmentENVS 278HydrologyENVS 279 Climate and HistoryENVS 283Environmental SustainabilityENVS 297 North American Environmental HistoryENVS 298Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 300 Introduction to Public HealthENVS 301Environmental HealthENVS 303 Introduction to EpidemiologyENVS 311Natural Resources and Land Use Law & PolicyENVS 312 Water Law & PolicyENVS 313Energy Law & PolicyENVS 319ENVS 320Conservation BiologyENVS 322 Invasive SpeciesENVS 323Environmental MicrobiologyENVS 325 Sustainable AgricultureENVS 326AgroecosystemsENVS 327 Food Systems Analysis

--- Page 1079 ---
1110  Environmental Policy/Digital Media and Storytelling (BA/MC)ENVS 330Restoration EcologyENVS 338 Climate Change and Human HealthENVS 340Natural History of BelizeENVS 345 Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
EcosystemsENVS 350ASolutions to Environmental Problems: WaterENVS 350B Solutions to Environmental Problems: BiogasENVS 350CSolutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
ActionENVS 350F Solutions to Environmental Problems: Food
SystemsENVS 351Introduction to Sustainability Concepts & ImpactsENVS 352 Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IENVS 353Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IIENVS 354 Sustainability Plan Development & ReportingENVS 369Field OrnithologyENVS 380 Introduction to Geographic Information SystemsENVS 381Advanced GIS ApplicationsENVS 385 Introduction to Global HealthENVS 387Principles of EcotoxicologyENVS 388ENVS 389Ecological Risk AssessmentENVS 391 Environmental Research (with SES approval)ENVS 395Environmental Internship (with SES approval)ENVS 398 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399Directed Readings (with SES approval)ANTH 104 The Human Ecological FootprintANTH 303People and ConservationBIOL, CHEM, PHYS 300-level courses (with SES approval)Total Hours18
Electives for Digital Media and Storytelling
Code Title Hours
Advertising/Public RelationsCOMM 422Global and Multicultural Audiences and
Stakeholders3
COMM 432 Public Interest Communication 3COMM 433Corporate Communication3
COMM 437 Advertising/PR Multimedia Commercial
Production3COMM 463Intermediate Advertising Design3
COMM 464 Mobile Advertising 3Film and ProductionCOMM 439 Video Documentary 3COMM 455Animation3
COMM 459 Advanced Post Production 3COMM 494Film & Digital Media Internship3
Multimedia JournalismCOMM 458Newscasting and Producing3
COMM 473 Digital Storytelling Abroad 3COMM 492Multimedia Journalism Internship3
OtherCOMM 4163COMM 479 Digital Sustainability 3COMM 498Directed Study for Graduate Students1-3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year One
Fall
ENVS 137 Foundations of Environmental Science I 3PLSC 101American Politics3 Hours6
SpringENVS 203Environmental Statistics3
ENVS 237 Foundations of Environmental Chemistry 3ENVS 238Foundations of Environmental Science Lab1Justice & Ethics Choice3 Hours10
Year Two
Fall
ENVS 200 Environmental Careers and Professional
Skills1ENVS 280Principles of Ecology3ENVS 286Principles of Ecology Lab1 Hours5
Spring
ENVS 310 
or PLSC 392Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy 
or Environmental Politics3Environmental Science Elective3 Hours6
Year Three
FallENVS 310 
or PLSC 392Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy 
or Environmental Politics3Policy, Economic, & Resource Management Elective3 Hours6
Spring
ENVS 335 
or ECON 328Ecological Economics 
or Environmental Economics3Methods & Analysis Elective3 Hours6
Year Four
FallEngaged Learning Choice3
Policy, Economics, & Resource Management Elective 3COMM 405Story Development and Production3
COMM 420 Digital Production: Storytelling with Impact 3COMM 306 
or COMM 379Environmental Advocacy 1, 2 
or Digital Sustainability3 Hours15

--- Page 1080 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1111
SpringCapstone Choice3
COMM 405 Story Development and Production 3COMM 420Digital Production: Storytelling with Impact3COMM 306 
or COMM 379Environmental Advocacy 1, 2 
or Digital Sustainability3 Hours12
Year Five
Fall
COMM 400 Designing for Digital Environments 3COMM 410Media Law for Inclusive Digital Storytelling3DMST Elective3 Hours9
Spring
COMM 415 Data-Powered Digital Storytelling 3COMM 450Capstone II3DMST Elective3 Hours9 Total Hours84
1In place of Society, Ethics, & Justice Elective.
2In place of Environmental Elective.
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the

--- Page 1081 ---
1112  Environmental Policy/Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditionalmaster’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•Describe the need for government intervention and the policy
process. [BA]
•Explain the major US federal environmental laws and international
agreements. [BA]
•Recognize the role of state and local innovation in environmental
policy. [BA]
•Engage in environmental policy advocacy, development, and
implementation. [BA]
•Evaluate the effectiveness of the policy toward environmental
sustainability. [BA]
•Learn how to use state-of-the-art equipment in our Convergence
Studio and technology labs. [MC]
•Learn audience engagement and analytics to understand user
activities and to drive improvements in distribution performance. [MC]
•Students will learn digital audience behavior and the legal, marketing
and economic environment for ﬁnding ideal audiences and
distributing digital content. [MC]
•Create a capstone project that integrates learning from all
coursework and culminates in a professional project that is widely
distributed to the public. [MC]
SES Shared Learning Outcomes
All SES majors share the following Program Learning Objectives, in
addition to their unique major-speciﬁc Program Learning Objectives:
1. Articulate the foundational principles of natural and social sciences
and humanities essential to solving environmental problems.
2. Critically evaluate the accuracy and credibility of information relating to
environmental topics.
3. Employ knowledge and skills to design and implement solutions that
contribute to a just and sustainable world.
4. Exemplify the values of environmental and social justice through
actions to care for our common home and one another.
Environmental Policy/Environmental
Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)
Well-designed public policies are critical in maintaining and restoring
a healthy environment. Public policies influence air and water quality,
land use, biodiversity, and public health and shape crucial efforts to ﬁght
climate change. Our environmental policy program prepares students to
craft and implement public policies that promote ecological conservation,
environmental justice, and innovation toward a green economy.
With our Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s Program, Loyola SES students
can boost their professional credentials and save time and money by
completing an undergraduate degree along with a master of science in
environmental science and sustainability degree in as little as ﬁve years.
The economic and academic beneﬁts are substantial.

--- Page 1082 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1113
Related Programs
Major
•Environmental Policy (BA)  (p. 934)
Combined
•Environmental Policy/Digital Media and Storytelling (BA/MC)
(p. 1108 )
•Environmental Policy/Global Strategic Communication (BA/MS)
(p. 1117 )
•Environmental Policy/Public Policy (BA/MPP)  (p. 1122 )
Curriculum
Environmental Policy students complete coursework spanning a variety
of disciplines pertinent to the understanding of environmental issues.
Code Title Hours
BA RequirementsCore CurriculumENVS 137 Foundations of Environmental Science I 3ENVS 237Foundations of Environmental Chemistry3
ENVS 238 Foundations of Environmental Science Lab 1ENVS 200Environmental Careers and Professional Skills1
ENVS 203 Environmental Statistics 3ENVS 280Principles of Ecology3
ENVS 286 Principles of Ecology Lab 1ENVS 310Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy3
PLSC 101 American Politics 3PLSC 392Environmental Politics3
Justice and Ethics ChoiceSelect one of the following:3
ENVS 284 Environmental JusticePHIL 287Environmental EthicsTHEO 204 Religious Ethics and the Ecological CrisisEconomics ChoiceENVS 335 Ecological Economics 3
or ECON 328 Environmental EconomicsEngaged Learning ChoiceSelect one of the following: 3ENVS 226Science & Conservation of Freshwater EcosystemsENVS 267 Bird Conservation and EcologyENVS 369Field OrnithologyENVS 273 Energy and the EnvironmentENVS 283Environmental SustainabilityENVS 340 Natural History of BelizeENVS 345Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
EcosystemsENVS 350A Solutions to Environmental Problems: WaterENVS 350BSolutions to Environmental Problems: BiogasENVS 350C Solutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
ActionENVS 350FSolutions to Environmental Problems: Food
SystemsENVS 391 Environmental ResearchENVS 395Environmental InternshipCapstone ChoiceSelect one of the following:3
ENVS 390 Integrative SeminarENVS 391CIndependent Environmental Research (Capstone)ENVS 395C Environmental Internship (Capstone)BA Electives  (p. 1113 )18
See designated elective categories belowMS CurriculumRequired CoursesENVS 401Sustainable Systems - Natural Science
Perspectives3
ENVS 402 Sustainable Systems - Social Science Perspectives 3Choose One of Four Concentrations  19-12
Environmental Law & PolicyENVS 410Introduction to Environmental Law & PolicyENVS 411 Natural Resources and Land Use Law & PolicyENVS 412Water Law & PolicyENVS 413 Energy Law & PolicyGeographic Information SystemsENVS 480 Introduction to Geographic Information SystemsENVS 481Advanced GIS ApplicationsENVS 482 Remote SensingSustainable Assessment and PlanningENVS 451 Introduction to Sustainability Concepts & ImpactsENVS 452Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IENVS 453 Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IIENVS 454Sustainability Plan Development & ReportingSustainable BusinessENVS 433Introduction to the Circular EconomyENVS 435 Ecological EconomicsENVS 436Design for Circular & Sustainable BusinessENVS 463 Sustainable Business ManagementMS Electives  (p. 1115 )6-9Students will take at least two courses from the list of electivesTotal Hours78
1Students choosing the Geographical Information Systems track must
take an additional elective course to meet a total credit hours for the
MS.
BA Electives
Code Title Hours
Society, Ethics, and JusticeSelect one of the following:3
ENVS 204 Gender, Health & EnvironmentENVS 279Climate and HistoryENVS 284 Environmental JusticeENVS 297North American Environmental HistoryENVS 298 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 338Climate Change and Human HealthENVS 350A Solutions to Environmental Problems: WaterENVS 350BSolutions to Environmental Problems: Biogas

--- Page 1083 ---
1114  Environmental Policy/Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)
ENVS 350C Solutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
ActionENVS 350FSolutions to Environmental Problems: Food
SystemsENVS 383 Human Dimensions of ConservationENVS 391Environmental Research (with SES approval)ENVS 395 Environmental Internship (with SES approval)ENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399 Directed Readings (with SES approval)COMM 101Public Speaking & Critical ThinkingCOMM 260 Environmental JournalismCOMM 277Organizational CommunicationCOMM 306 Environmental AdvocacyCOMM 322Guerilla MediaCOMM 379 Digital SustainabilityENGL 288Nature in LiteraturePHIL 287 Environmental EthicsPSYC 277Environmental PsychologySOCL 226 Science, Technology, & SocietySOCL 252Global InequalitiesSOCL 272 Environmental SociologySOCL 276The Sociology and Politics of FoodSOCL 278 Global HealthTHEO 204Religious Ethics and the Ecological CrisisTHEO 344 Theology and EcologyPolicy, Economics, and Resource ManagementSelect two of the following: 6ENVS 298Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 300 Introduction to Public HealthENVS 311Natural Resources and Land Use Law & PolicyENVS 312 Water Law & PolicyENVS 313Energy Law & PolicyENVS 327 Food Systems AnalysisENVS 332ENVS 333 Introduction to the Circular EconomyENVS 335Ecological EconomicsENVS 336 Design for Circular & Sustainable BusinessENVS 338Climate Change and Human HealthENVS 363 Sustainable Business ManagementENVS 364ENVS 383 Human Dimensions of ConservationENVS 384Conservation EconomicsENVS 389 Ecological Risk AssessmentENVS 391Environmental Research (with SES approval)ENVS 395 Environmental Internship (with SES approval)ENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399 Directed Readings (with SES approval)ECON 328Environmental EconomicsGLST 305 Globalization and Environmental SustainabilityMGMT 201Managing People and OrganizationsPLSC 354 Global Environmental PoliticsMethods and AnalysisSelect one of the following: 3COMM 260Environmental JournalismENVS 298 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 327Food Systems AnalysisENVS 352 Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IENVS 353Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IIENVS 354 Sustainability Plan Development & ReportingENVS 380Introduction to Geographic Information SystemsENVS 381 Advanced GIS ApplicationsENVS 382Remote SensingENVS 384 Conservation EconomicsENVS 388ENVS 389 Ecological Risk AssessmentENVS 391Environmental ResearchENVS 395 Environmental InternshipENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399 Directed ReadingsANTH 317Ethnographic MethodsBIOL 335 Intro to BiostatisticsCOMM 231Conflict Management and CommunicationCOMM 234 Interviewing for CommunicationCOMM 277Organizational CommunicationCOMM 363 Research Methods in Advertising/Public RelationsMARK 320Marketing for Environmental SustainabilitySOCL 206 Principles of Social ResearchSOCL 301Statistics for Social ResearchSOCL 302 Qualitative ResearchSTAT 203Introduction to Probability & StatisticsSTAT 303 SAS Programming & Applied StatisticsEnvironmental ElectivesSelect two of the following: 6COMM 260Environmental JournalismENVS 204 Gender, Health & EnvironmentENVS 207Plants and CivilizationENVS 215 /
BIOL 215OrnithologyENVS 218Biodiversity & BiogeographyENVS 223 Soil EcologyENVS 224Climate & Climate ChangeENVS 226 Science & Conservation of Freshwater EcosystemsENVS 227REcology of the Mediterranean SeaENVS 267 Bird Conservation and EcologyENVS 273Energy and the EnvironmentENVS 274 Chemistry of the Natural EnvironmentENVS 278HydrologyENVS 279 Climate and HistoryENVS 283Environmental SustainabilityENVS 297 North American Environmental HistoryENVS 298Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 300 Introduction to Public HealthENVS 301Environmental HealthENVS 303 Introduction to Epidemiology

--- Page 1084 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1115ENVS 311Natural Resources and Land Use Law & PolicyENVS 312 Water Law & PolicyENVS 313Energy Law & PolicyENVS 319ENVS 320Conservation BiologyENVS 322 Invasive SpeciesENVS 323Environmental MicrobiologyENVS 325 Sustainable AgricultureENVS 326AgroecosystemsENVS 327 Food Systems AnalysisENVS 330Restoration EcologyENVS 338 Climate Change and Human HealthENVS 340Natural History of BelizeENVS 345 Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
EcosystemsENVS 350ASolutions to Environmental Problems: WaterENVS 350B Solutions to Environmental Problems: BiogasENVS 350CSolutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
ActionENVS 350F Solutions to Environmental Problems: Food
SystemsENVS 351Introduction to Sustainability Concepts & ImpactsENVS 352 Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IENVS 353Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IIENVS 354 Sustainability Plan Development & ReportingENVS 369Field OrnithologyENVS 380 Introduction to Geographic Information SystemsENVS 381Advanced GIS ApplicationsENVS 385 Introduction to Global HealthENVS 387Principles of EcotoxicologyENVS 388ENVS 389Ecological Risk AssessmentENVS 391 Environmental Research (with SES approval)ENVS 395Environmental Internship (with SES approval)ENVS 398 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399Directed Readings (with SES approval)ANTH 104 The Human Ecological FootprintANTH 303People and ConservationBIOL, CHEM, PHYS 300-level courses (with SES approval)Total Hours18
MS Electives
Code Title Hours
ENVS 420 Conservation BiologyENVS 422Invasive SpeciesENVS 425 Sustainable AgricultureENVS 426AgroecosystemsENVS 427 Food Systems AnalysisENVS 430Restoration EcologyENVS 435 Ecological EconomicsENVS 438Climate Change and Human HealthENVS 451 Introduction to Sustainability Concepts & ImpactsENVS 452Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IENVS 453 Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IIENVS 480Introduction to Geographic Information SystemsENVS 481 Advanced GIS ApplicationsENVS 482Remote SensingENVS 484 Conservation EconomicsENVS 487Principles of EcotoxicologyENVS 488ENVS 489Ecological Risk AssessmentENVS 491 Independent Environmental Research (upon
approval)ENVS 498Special Topics (upon approval)ENVS 498L Special Topics with Lab (upon approval)ENVS 499Directed Readings (upon approval)BIOL 495 Special Topics (Topic: Metagenomics)BIOL 416Limnology Lec/LabBIOL 418 Aquatic Insects Lecture & LaboratoryBIOL 470Biostats & Exp Design Lec/LabMPBH 401 Environmental HealthMPBH 402Public Health Practice and ManagementMPBH 403 Introduction to EpidemiologyMPBH 404Biostatistics for Health and Biological ScienceMPBH 407 Public Health Policy: Concepts and PracticeMPBH 409Biostatistics IMPBH 412 Intro to Statistical Computing for Public HealthMPBH 414Introduction to Global HealthMPBH 421 Biostatistics IIMPBH 423Intermediate EpidemiologyMPP 401 Analytical Tools in Public PolicyMPP 402Cost Beneﬁt AnalysisMPP 403 Public Budget and FinanceMPP 405Statistical Methods & Analysis for Public Policy IMPP 406 Statistical Methods & Analysis Public Policy IIMPP 408Political Feasibility AnalysisSOCL 414 Statistical Methods Analysis ISOCL 415Statistical Methods of Analysis IISTAT 403 SAS Program & Applied StatisticsSTAT 407Statistical DesignSTAT 436 Topics in BiostatisticsENVS 410Introduction to Environmental Law & PolicyENVS 411 Natural Resources and Land Use Law & PolicyENVS 412Water Law & PolicyENVS 413 Energy Law & PolicyENVS 432ENVS 433 Introduction to the Circular EconomyENVS 436Design for Circular & Sustainable BusinessENVS 454 Sustainability Plan Development & ReportingENVS 463Sustainable Business ManagementENVS 464ENVS 483Human Dimensions of ConservationENVS 491 Independent Environmental Research (upon
approval)ENVS 498Special Topics (upon approval)

--- Page 1085 ---
1116  Environmental Policy/Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)
ENVS 499 Directed Readings (upon approval)MPBH 407Public Health Policy: Concepts and PracticeMPP 400 Policy Design and AnalysisMPP 404Public Policy ProcessPSYC 460 Social Psychological TheoryPSYC 461Attitude and Attitude ChangePSYC 486 Methods of Program EvaluationSOCL 412Qualitative Methods in Social ResearchSOCL 446 Knowledge, Power & ExpertiseSOCL 463Sociology & Natural EnvironmentSuggested Sequence of Courses 
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Suggested Sequence of Courses - Research Track 
Course Title Hours
Year One
Fall
ENVS 137 Foundations of Environmental Science I 3PLSC 101American Politics3 Hours6
SpringENVS 203Environmental Statistics3
ENVS 237 Foundations of Environmental Chemistry 3ENVS 238Foundations of Environmental Science Lab1Justice & Ethics Choice3 Hours10
Year Two
Fall
ENVS 200 Environmental Careers and Professional
Skills1ENVS 280Principles of Ecology3ENVS 286Principles of Ecology Lab1 Hours5
Spring
ENVS 310 
or PLSC 392Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy 
or Environmental Politics3Environmental Science Elective3Methods and Analysis Elective3 Hours9
Year Three
FallENVS 310 
or PLSC 392Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy 
or Environmental Politics3 Hours3
Spring
ENVS 335 
or ECON 328Ecological Economics 
or Environmental Economics3Environmental Electives3Policy, Economics, and Resource Management Electives3 Hours9
Year Four
Fall
Engaged Learning Choice 3400 Level Policy, Economics, & Resource Management Elective3400 Level Methods & Analysis Elective3 Hours9
Spring
Capstone Choice 3400 Level Policy, Economics, & Resource Management Elective3400 Level Environmental Science Elective3 Hours9
Year Five
Fall
ENVS 402 Sustainable Systems - Social Science
Perspectives3400 Level Required Concentration Course3400 Level Required Concentration Course3 Hours9
Spring
ENVS 401 Sustainable Systems - Natural Science
Perspectives3400 Level Required Concentration Course3400 Level Required Concentration Course3 Hours9 Total Hours78
Suggested Sequence of Courses - Professional Track 
Course Title Hours
Year One
Fall
ENVS 137 Foundations of Environmental Science I 3PLSC 101American Politics3 Hours6
SpringENVS 203Environmental Statistics3
ENVS 237 Foundations of Environmental Chemistry 3ENVS 238Foundations of Environmental Science Lab1Justice & Ethics Choice3 Hours10
Year Two
Fall
ENVS 200 Environmental Careers and Professional
Skills1ENVS 280Principles of Ecology3ENVS 286Principles of Ecology Lab1 Hours5
Spring
ENVS 310 
or PLSC 392Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy 
or Environmental Politics3Environmental Science Elective3

--- Page 1086 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1117Policy, Economics, and Resource Management Electives3 Hours9
Year Three
Fall
ENVS 310 
or PLSC 392Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy 
or Environmental Politics3Environmental Electives3 Hours6
SpringENVS 335 
or ECON 328Ecological Economics 
or Environmental Economics3Policy, Economics, and Resource Management Electives3 Hours6
Year Four
Fall
Engaged Learning Choice 3400 Level Policy, Economics, & Resource Management Elective3400 Level Methods & Analysis Elective3 Hours9
Spring
Capstone Choice 3400 Level Policy, Economics, & Resource Management Elective3400 Level Environmental Science Elective3 Hours9
Year Five
Fall
ENVS 402 Sustainable Systems - Social Science
Perspectives3400 Level Required Concentration Course3400 Level Required Concentration Course3 Hours9
Spring
ENVS 401 Sustainable Systems - Natural Science
Perspectives3400 Level Required Concentration Course3400 Level Required Concentration Course3 Hours9 Total Hours78
School of Environmental Sustainability
Graduation Requirements
All SES students are required to complete a foreign language requirement
and a writing intensive requirement. The SES language requirement
can be fulﬁlled by 1) earning college credit at the 102-level or above; or
2) demonstrating proﬁciency via the SES foreign language proﬁciency
examination. The SES writing intensive requirement is fulﬁlled by
successfully completing two Loyola WI courses (max of one per
semester). Writing intensive courses have a “W” in the section number.
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts arenot required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Describe the need for government intervention and the policy
process. [BA]
•Explain the major US federal environmental laws and international
agreements. [BA]
•Recognize the role of state and local innovation in environmental
policy. [BA]
•Engage in environmental policy advocacy, development, and
implementation. [BA]
•Evaluate the effectiveness of the policy toward environmental
sustainability. [BA]
•Deepen your understanding of complex socio-ecological systems and
their connection with sustainable development goals. [MS]
•Increase your ability to make accurate and ethical evidence-based
decisions from scientiﬁc literature. [MS]
•Expand your capacity to communicate environmental science and
sustainability issues to the scientiﬁc community, professional
colleagues, policy makers, and the general public. [MS]
•Demonstrate competence of in-depth knowledge and skills through
completion of an original research project and thesis. [MS]
SES Shared Learning Outcomes
All SES majors share the following Program Learning Objectives, in
addition to their unique major-speciﬁc Program Learning Objectives:
1. Articulate the foundational principles of natural and social sciences
and humanities essential to solving environmental problems.
2. Critically evaluate the accuracy and credibility of information relating to
environmental topics.
3. Employ knowledge and skills to design and implement solutions that
contribute to a just and sustainable world.
4. Exemplify the values of environmental and social justice through
actions to care for our common home and one another.
Environmental Policy/Global
Strategic Communication (BA/MS)
The new Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's (ABM) program allows SES
students to earn their undergraduate degree in their declared major, while
also earning a master’s degree from the SOC in either the Digital Media
and Storytelling or Global Strategic Communication graduate programs.
The program trains environmental scientists to be better communicators.
While environmental scientists are trained to investigate, analyze data,
and interpret results, they are not taught how to communicate their
results and conclusions in ways that are readily accessible to the general
public, CEOs, or legislators. For students in the School of Environmental
Sustainability, the ABM program will help them with writing, public
speaking, conference presentations, television and radio interviews, and
social media messaging.

--- Page 1087 ---
1118  Environmental Policy/Global Strategic Communication (BA/MS)
Related Programs
Combined
•Environmental Science/Global Strategic Communication (BS/MS)
(p. 1146 )
•Environmental Studies/Global Strategic Communication (BA/MS)
(p. 1182 )
Curriculum
Environmental Policy students complete coursework spanning a variety
of disciplines pertinent to the understanding of environmental issues.
Code Title Hours
BA RequirementsCore CurriculumENVS 137 Foundations of Environmental Science I 3ENVS 237Foundations of Environmental Chemistry3
ENVS 238 Foundations of Environmental Science Lab 1ENVS 200Environmental Careers and Professional Skills1
ENVS 203 Environmental Statistics 3ENVS 280Principles of Ecology3
ENVS 286 Principles of Ecology Lab 1ENVS 310Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy3
PLSC 101 American Politics 3PLSC 392Environmental Politics3
Justice and Ethics ChoiceSelect one of the following:3
ENVS 284 Environmental JusticePHIL 287Environmental EthicsTHEO 204 Religious Ethics and the Ecological CrisisEconomics ChoiceENVS 335 Ecological Economics 3
or ECON 328 Environmental EconomicsEngaged Learning ChoiceSelect one of the following: 3ENVS 226Science & Conservation of Freshwater EcosystemsENVS 267 Bird Conservation and EcologyENVS 369Field OrnithologyENVS 273 Energy and the EnvironmentENVS 283Environmental SustainabilityENVS 340 Natural History of BelizeENVS 345Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
EcosystemsENVS 350A Solutions to Environmental Problems: WaterENVS 350BSolutions to Environmental Problems: BiogasENVS 350C Solutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
ActionENVS 350FSolutions to Environmental Problems: Food
SystemsENVS 391 Environmental ResearchENVS 395Environmental InternshipCapstone ChoiceSelect one of the following:3
ENVS 390 Integrative SeminarENVS 391CIndependent Environmental Research (Capstone)ENVS 395C Environmental Internship (Capstone)Electives  (p. 1118 )18
See designated elective categories belowMS RequirementsCOMM 401 Foundations of Global Strategic Communication 3COMM 402Organizational Leadership and Change
Management3
COMM 403 Strategic Communication Research Methods 3COMM 411Strategic Communication Ethics and Law3
COMM 413 Writing for Strategic Communication 3COMM 421Topics in Global Strategic Communication3
COMM 431 Campaign for Social Impact 3COMM 441Global Strategic Communication Capstone3Four (4) Electives from List of Electives for GSC  (p. 1120 )12Total Hours90
BA Electives
Code Title Hours
Society, Ethics, and JusticeSelect one of the following:3
ENVS 204 Gender, Health & EnvironmentENVS 279Climate and HistoryENVS 284 Environmental JusticeENVS 297North American Environmental HistoryENVS 298 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 338Climate Change and Human HealthENVS 350A Solutions to Environmental Problems: WaterENVS 350BSolutions to Environmental Problems: BiogasENVS 350C Solutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
ActionENVS 350FSolutions to Environmental Problems: Food
SystemsENVS 383 Human Dimensions of ConservationENVS 391Environmental Research (with SES approval)ENVS 395 Environmental Internship (with SES approval)ENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399 Directed Readings (with SES approval)COMM 101Public Speaking & Critical ThinkingCOMM 260 Environmental JournalismCOMM 277Organizational CommunicationCOMM 306 Environmental AdvocacyCOMM 322Guerilla MediaCOMM 379 Digital SustainabilityENGL 288Nature in LiteraturePHIL 287 Environmental EthicsPSYC 277Environmental PsychologySOCL 226 Science, Technology, & SocietySOCL 252Global InequalitiesSOCL 272 Environmental SociologySOCL 276The Sociology and Politics of FoodSOCL 278 Global HealthTHEO 204Religious Ethics and the Ecological Crisis

--- Page 1088 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1119
THEO 344 Theology and EcologyPolicy, Economics, and Resource ManagementSelect two of the following: 6ENVS 298Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 300 Introduction to Public HealthENVS 311Natural Resources and Land Use Law & PolicyENVS 312 Water Law & PolicyENVS 313Energy Law & PolicyENVS 327 Food Systems AnalysisENVS 332ENVS 333 Introduction to the Circular EconomyENVS 335Ecological EconomicsENVS 336 Design for Circular & Sustainable BusinessENVS 338Climate Change and Human HealthENVS 363 Sustainable Business ManagementENVS 364ENVS 383 Human Dimensions of ConservationENVS 384Conservation EconomicsENVS 389 Ecological Risk AssessmentENVS 391Environmental Research (with SES approval)ENVS 395 Environmental Internship (with SES approval)ENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399 Directed Readings (with SES approval)ECON 328Environmental EconomicsGLST 305 Globalization and Environmental SustainabilityMGMT 201Managing People and OrganizationsPLSC 354 Global Environmental PoliticsMethods and AnalysisSelect one of the following: 3COMM 260Environmental JournalismENVS 298 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 327Food Systems AnalysisENVS 352 Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IENVS 353Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IIENVS 354 Sustainability Plan Development & ReportingENVS 380Introduction to Geographic Information SystemsENVS 381 Advanced GIS ApplicationsENVS 382Remote SensingENVS 384 Conservation EconomicsENVS 388ENVS 389 Ecological Risk AssessmentENVS 391Environmental ResearchENVS 395 Environmental InternshipENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399 Directed ReadingsANTH 317Ethnographic MethodsBIOL 335 Intro to BiostatisticsCOMM 231Conflict Management and CommunicationCOMM 234 Interviewing for CommunicationCOMM 277Organizational CommunicationCOMM 363 Research Methods in Advertising/Public RelationsMARK 320Marketing for Environmental SustainabilitySOCL 206 Principles of Social ResearchSOCL 301Statistics for Social ResearchSOCL 302 Qualitative ResearchSTAT 203Introduction to Probability & StatisticsSTAT 303 SAS Programming & Applied StatisticsEnvironmental ElectivesSelect two of the following: 6COMM 260Environmental JournalismENVS 204 Gender, Health & EnvironmentENVS 207Plants and CivilizationENVS 215 /
BIOL 215OrnithologyENVS 218Biodiversity & BiogeographyENVS 223 Soil EcologyENVS 224Climate & Climate ChangeENVS 226 Science & Conservation of Freshwater EcosystemsENVS 227REcology of the Mediterranean SeaENVS 267 Bird Conservation and EcologyENVS 273Energy and the EnvironmentENVS 274 Chemistry of the Natural EnvironmentENVS 278HydrologyENVS 279 Climate and HistoryENVS 283Environmental SustainabilityENVS 297 North American Environmental HistoryENVS 298Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 300 Introduction to Public HealthENVS 301Environmental HealthENVS 303 Introduction to EpidemiologyENVS 311Natural Resources and Land Use Law & PolicyENVS 312 Water Law & PolicyENVS 313Energy Law & PolicyENVS 319ENVS 320Conservation BiologyENVS 322 Invasive SpeciesENVS 323Environmental MicrobiologyENVS 325 Sustainable AgricultureENVS 326AgroecosystemsENVS 327 Food Systems AnalysisENVS 330Restoration EcologyENVS 338 Climate Change and Human HealthENVS 340Natural History of BelizeENVS 345 Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
EcosystemsENVS 350ASolutions to Environmental Problems: WaterENVS 350B Solutions to Environmental Problems: BiogasENVS 350CSolutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
ActionENVS 350F Solutions to Environmental Problems: Food
SystemsENVS 351Introduction to Sustainability Concepts & ImpactsENVS 352 Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IENVS 353Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IIENVS 354 Sustainability Plan Development & Reporting

--- Page 1089 ---
1120  Environmental Policy/Global Strategic Communication (BA/MS)ENVS 369Field OrnithologyENVS 380 Introduction to Geographic Information SystemsENVS 381Advanced GIS ApplicationsENVS 385 Introduction to Global HealthENVS 387Principles of EcotoxicologyENVS 388ENVS 389Ecological Risk AssessmentENVS 391 Environmental Research (with SES approval)ENVS 395Environmental Internship (with SES approval)ENVS 398 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399Directed Readings (with SES approval)ANTH 104 The Human Ecological FootprintANTH 303People and ConservationBIOL, CHEM, PHYS 300-level courses (with SES approval)Total Hours18
MS Electives 
Code Title Hours
COMM 416 3COMM 417Media Planning3
COMM 421 Topics in Global Strategic Communication 13COMM 422Global and Multicultural Audiences and
Stakeholders3
COMM 425 Digital Marketing and Analytics 23COMM 429Advertising and Public Relations Design3
COMM 430 2D Design for Print and the Web 23COMM 432Public Interest Communication3
COMM 433 Corporate Communication 3COMM 436Social Media Crisis Communication3
COMM 437 Advertising/PR Multimedia Commercial
Production3COMM 444Social Media Advertising3
COMM 461 Health Communication 3COMM 463Intermediate Advertising Design3
COMM 464 Mobile Advertising 3COMM 470Special Topics in Advertising & Public Relations3
COMM 491 Advertising/Public Relations Internship 3COMM 498Directed Study for Graduate Students1-3
1May be repeated in a different city
2Only after all DMST students have enrolled
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year One
Fall
ENVS 137 Foundations of Environmental Science I 3PLSC 101American Politics3 Hours6
SpringENVS 203Environmental Statistics3
ENVS 237 Foundations of Environmental Chemistry 3ENVS 238Foundations of Environmental Science Lab1Justice & Ethics Choice3 Hours10
Year Two
Fall
ENVS 200 Environmental Careers and Professional
Skills1ENVS 280Principles of Ecology3ENVS 286Principles of Ecology Lab1 Hours5
Spring
ENVS 310 
or PLSC 392Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy 
or Environmental Politics3Environmental Science Elective3 Hours6
Year Three
FallENVS 310 
or PLSC 392Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy 
or Environmental Politics3Policy, Economic, & Resource Management Elective3 Hours6
Spring
ENVS 335 
or ECON 328Ecological Economics 
or Environmental Economics3Methods & Analysis Elective3 Hours6
Year Four
FallEngaged Learning Choice3
Policy, Economics, & Resource Management Elective 3COMM 401Foundations of Global Strategic
Communication3
COMM 413 Writing for Strategic Communication 3COMM 306 
or COMM 379Environmental Advocacy 1, 2 
or Digital Sustainability3 Hours15
SpringCapstone Choice3
COMM 403 Strategic Communication Research
Methods3COMM 411Strategic Communication Ethics and Law3COMM 306 
or COMM 379Environmental Advocacy 1, 2 
or Digital Sustainability3 Hours12
Year Five
Fall
COMM 402 Organizational Leadership and Change
Management3

--- Page 1090 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1121COMM 431Campaign for Social Impact3
400 Level COMM Elective 3400 Level COMM Elective3 Hours12
SpringCOMM 421Topics in Global Strategic Communication3
COMM 441 Global Strategic Communication Capstone 3400 Level COMM Elective3400 Level COMM Elective3 Hours12 Total Hours90
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted asan undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress

--- Page 1091 ---
1122  Environmental Policy/Public Policy (BA/MPP)
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•Describe the need for government intervention and the policy
process. [BA]
•Explain the major US federal environmental laws and international
agreements. [BA]
•Recognize the role of state and local innovation in environmental
policy. [BA]•Engage in environmental policy advocacy, development, and
implementation. [BA]
•Evaluate the effectiveness of the policy toward environmental
sustainability. [BA]
•Create and implement strategic communication campaigns that
combine advertising, public relations and integrated marketing
communication, and are responsive to community needs and
organizational goals in local and global contexts. [MS]
•Write copy and design messages to reach diverse publics and for
distribution through multiple channels, including both traditional and
digital media. [MS]
•Understand the implications and applications of integrated strategies
for digital media in marketing, advertising and public relations
practices. [MS]
•Apply appropriate research methods to plan, monitor and evaluate
public relations, advertising and other communication campaigns and
activities. [MS]
•Practice ethical communication in professional practices that are
socially responsible and in the mutual interests of the organization
and the community. [MS]
•Demonstrate the competencies to work as a professional in
advertising or public relations. [MS]
SES Shared Learning Outcomes
All SES majors share the following Program Learning Objectives, in
addition to their unique major-speciﬁc Program Learning Objectives:
1. Articulate the foundational principles of natural and social sciences
and humanities essential to solving environmental problems.
2. Critically evaluate the accuracy and credibility of information relating to
environmental topics.
3. Employ knowledge and skills to design and implement solutions that
contribute to a just and sustainable world.
4. Exemplify the values of environmental and social justice through
actions to care for our common home and one another.
Environmental Policy/Public Policy
(BA/MPP)
From ecological restoration to water conservation, from climate change
adaptation to storm water management, the challenge is clear. The need
for individuals with literacy and skills relevant to both environmental
science and public policy has never been greater.
The SES dual degree programs with the Master of Public Policy (MPP)
prepare graduates to meet these challenges effectively in careers in
government, non-proﬁt organizations, and businesses.
Related Programs
Major
•Environmental Policy (BA)  (p. 934)
Combined
•Environmental Science/Public Policy (BS/MPP)  (p. 1159 )
•Environmental Studies/Public Policy (BA/MPP)  (p. 1187 )

--- Page 1092 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1123
Curriculum
These Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs begin with a broad,
interdisciplinary undergraduate curriculum drawing on courses in the
natural sciences, social sciences, humanities, and business.
Undergraduate service-learning, internships, research, and study abroad
provide students with rich, experiential learning opportunities. Students
then develop more in-depth understanding of policy issues and the
professional skills necessary to influence policy outcomes as part of their
graduate studies.
Environmental Policy students complete coursework spanning a variety
of disciplines pertinent to the understanding of environmental issues.
Code Title Hours
BA RequirementsCore CurriculumENVS 137 Foundations of Environmental Science I 3ENVS 237Foundations of Environmental Chemistry3
ENVS 238 Foundations of Environmental Science Lab 1ENVS 200Environmental Careers and Professional Skills1
ENVS 203 Environmental Statistics 3ENVS 280Principles of Ecology3
ENVS 286 Principles of Ecology Lab 1ENVS 310Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy3
PLSC 101 American Politics 3PLSC 392Environmental Politics3
Justice and Ethics ChoiceSelect one of the following:3
ENVS 284 Environmental JusticePHIL 287Environmental EthicsTHEO 204 Religious Ethics and the Ecological CrisisEconomics ChoiceENVS 335 Ecological Economics 3
or ECON 328 Environmental EconomicsEngaged Learning ChoiceSelect one of the following: 3ENVS 226Science & Conservation of Freshwater EcosystemsENVS 267 Bird Conservation and EcologyENVS 369Field OrnithologyENVS 273 Energy and the EnvironmentENVS 283Environmental SustainabilityENVS 340 Natural History of BelizeENVS 345Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
EcosystemsENVS 350A Solutions to Environmental Problems: WaterENVS 350BSolutions to Environmental Problems: BiogasENVS 350C Solutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
ActionENVS 350FSolutions to Environmental Problems: Food
SystemsENVS 391 Environmental ResearchENVS 395Environmental InternshipCapstone ChoiceSelect one of the following:3ENVS 390 Integrative SeminarENVS 391CIndependent Environmental Research (Capstone)ENVS 395C Environmental Internship (Capstone)Electives  (p. 1123 )18
See designated elective categories belowMPP RequirementsCore RequirementsMPP 400Policy Design and Analysis3
MPP 401 Analytical Tools in Public Policy 3MPP 403Public Budget and Finance3
MPP 404 Public Policy Process 3MPP 405Statistical Methods & Analysis for Public Policy I3
MPP 406 Statistical Methods & Analysis Public Policy II 3MPP 500Public Policy Evaluation3
MPP 502 Professional Development Skills 1MPP 501Public Policy Internship3or MPP 503Public Policy Practicum
Electives  (p. 1125 )Select four from list of Electives12Total Hours91
BA Electives
Code Title Hours
Society, Ethics, and JusticeSelect one of the following:3
ENVS 204 Gender, Health & EnvironmentENVS 279Climate and HistoryENVS 284 Environmental JusticeENVS 297North American Environmental HistoryENVS 298 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 338Climate Change and Human HealthENVS 350A Solutions to Environmental Problems: WaterENVS 350BSolutions to Environmental Problems: BiogasENVS 350C Solutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
ActionENVS 350FSolutions to Environmental Problems: Food
SystemsENVS 383 Human Dimensions of ConservationENVS 391Environmental Research (with SES approval)ENVS 395 Environmental Internship (with SES approval)ENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399 Directed Readings (with SES approval)COMM 101Public Speaking & Critical ThinkingCOMM 260 Environmental JournalismCOMM 277Organizational CommunicationCOMM 306 Environmental AdvocacyCOMM 322Guerilla MediaCOMM 379 Digital SustainabilityENGL 288Nature in LiteraturePHIL 287 Environmental EthicsPSYC 277Environmental PsychologySOCL 226 Science, Technology, & SocietySOCL 252Global Inequalities

--- Page 1093 ---
1124  Environmental Policy/Public Policy (BA/MPP)
SOCL 272 Environmental SociologySOCL 276The Sociology and Politics of FoodSOCL 278 Global HealthTHEO 204Religious Ethics and the Ecological CrisisTHEO 344 Theology and EcologyPolicy, Economics, and Resource ManagementSelect two of the following: 6ENVS 298Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 300 Introduction to Public HealthENVS 311Natural Resources and Land Use Law & PolicyENVS 312 Water Law & PolicyENVS 313Energy Law & PolicyENVS 327 Food Systems AnalysisENVS 332ENVS 333 Introduction to the Circular EconomyENVS 335Ecological EconomicsENVS 336 Design for Circular & Sustainable BusinessENVS 338Climate Change and Human HealthENVS 363 Sustainable Business ManagementENVS 364ENVS 383 Human Dimensions of ConservationENVS 384Conservation EconomicsENVS 389 Ecological Risk AssessmentENVS 391Environmental Research (with SES approval)ENVS 395 Environmental Internship (with SES approval)ENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399 Directed Readings (with SES approval)ECON 328Environmental EconomicsGLST 305 Globalization and Environmental SustainabilityMGMT 201Managing People and OrganizationsPLSC 354 Global Environmental PoliticsMethods and AnalysisSelect one of the following: 3COMM 260Environmental JournalismENVS 298 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 327Food Systems AnalysisENVS 352 Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IENVS 353Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IIENVS 354 Sustainability Plan Development & ReportingENVS 380Introduction to Geographic Information SystemsENVS 381 Advanced GIS ApplicationsENVS 382Remote SensingENVS 384 Conservation EconomicsENVS 388ENVS 389 Ecological Risk AssessmentENVS 391Environmental ResearchENVS 395 Environmental InternshipENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399 Directed ReadingsANTH 317Ethnographic MethodsBIOL 335 Intro to BiostatisticsCOMM 231Conflict Management and CommunicationCOMM 234 Interviewing for CommunicationCOMM 277Organizational CommunicationCOMM 363 Research Methods in Advertising/Public RelationsMARK 320Marketing for Environmental SustainabilitySOCL 206 Principles of Social ResearchSOCL 301Statistics for Social ResearchSOCL 302 Qualitative ResearchSTAT 203Introduction to Probability & StatisticsSTAT 303 SAS Programming & Applied StatisticsEnvironmental ElectivesSelect two of the following: 6COMM 260Environmental JournalismENVS 204 Gender, Health & EnvironmentENVS 207Plants and CivilizationENVS 215 /
BIOL 215OrnithologyENVS 218Biodiversity & BiogeographyENVS 223 Soil EcologyENVS 224Climate & Climate ChangeENVS 226 Science & Conservation of Freshwater EcosystemsENVS 227REcology of the Mediterranean SeaENVS 267 Bird Conservation and EcologyENVS 273Energy and the EnvironmentENVS 274 Chemistry of the Natural EnvironmentENVS 278HydrologyENVS 279 Climate and HistoryENVS 283Environmental SustainabilityENVS 297 North American Environmental HistoryENVS 298Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 300 Introduction to Public HealthENVS 301Environmental HealthENVS 303 Introduction to EpidemiologyENVS 311Natural Resources and Land Use Law & PolicyENVS 312 Water Law & PolicyENVS 313Energy Law & PolicyENVS 319ENVS 320Conservation BiologyENVS 322 Invasive SpeciesENVS 323Environmental MicrobiologyENVS 325 Sustainable AgricultureENVS 326AgroecosystemsENVS 327 Food Systems AnalysisENVS 330Restoration EcologyENVS 338 Climate Change and Human HealthENVS 340Natural History of BelizeENVS 345 Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
EcosystemsENVS 350ASolutions to Environmental Problems: WaterENVS 350B Solutions to Environmental Problems: BiogasENVS 350CSolutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
ActionENVS 350F Solutions to Environmental Problems: Food
Systems

--- Page 1094 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1125ENVS 351Introduction to Sustainability Concepts & ImpactsENVS 352 Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IENVS 353Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IIENVS 354 Sustainability Plan Development & ReportingENVS 369Field OrnithologyENVS 380 Introduction to Geographic Information SystemsENVS 381Advanced GIS ApplicationsENVS 385 Introduction to Global HealthENVS 387Principles of EcotoxicologyENVS 388ENVS 389Ecological Risk AssessmentENVS 391 Environmental Research (with SES approval)ENVS 395Environmental Internship (with SES approval)ENVS 398 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399Directed Readings (with SES approval)ANTH 104 The Human Ecological FootprintANTH 303People and ConservationBIOL, CHEM, PHYS 300-level courses (with SES approval)Total Hours18
MPP Electives 
Students are required to take 12 hours of electives. Electives can be
drawn from departments across the university, including environmental
studies and public health. These electives are where students can focus
on their preferred ﬁeld of policy. The following are some examples of
optional courses:
Code Title Hours
EnvironmentENVS 410Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy3
ENVS 411 Natural Resources and Land Use Law & Policy 3ENVS 412Water Law & Policy3
ENVS 413 Energy Law & Policy 3ENVS 480Introduction to Geographic Information Systems3
ENVS 481 Advanced GIS Applications 3Public HealthMPBH 400 Determinants of Population Health 3MPBH 401Environmental Health3
MPBH 407 Public Health Policy: Concepts and Practice 3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
Course Title Hours
Year One
Fall
ENVS 137 Foundations of Environmental Science I 3PLSC 101American Politics3 Hours6
SpringENVS 203Environmental Statistics3
ENVS 237 Foundations of Environmental Chemistry 3ENVS 238Foundations of Environmental Science Lab1Justice & Ethics Choice3 Hours10Year Two
Fall
ENVS 200 Environmental Careers and Professional
Skills1ENVS 280Principles of Ecology3ENVS 286Principles of Ecology Lab1 Hours5
Spring
ENVS 310 
or PLSC 392Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy 
or Environmental Politics3Environmental Science Elective3 Hours6
Year Three
FallENVS 310 
or PLSC 392Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy 
or Environmental Politics3Policy, Economics, & Resource Managment Elective3 Hours6
Spring
ENVS 335 
or ECON 328Ecological Economics 
or Environmental Economics3Society, Ethics, & Justice Elective3Methods & Analysis Elective3 Hours9
Year Four
Fall
Engaged Learning Choice 3Policy, Economics, & Resource Management Elective3
MPP 400 
or MPP 401 
or MPP 404Policy Design and Analysis 
or Analytical Tools in Public Policy 
or Public Policy Process3ENVS 410 
or ENVS 411 
or ENVS 480Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy 
or Natural Resources and Land Use Law
& Policy 
or Introduction to Geographic
Information Systems3 Hours12
SpringCapstone Choice3
Environmental Science Elective 3MPP 403 
or MPP 404Public Budget and Finance 
or Public Policy Process3MPP 413 
or ENVS 412 
or ENVS 413 
or ENVS 481Intergovernmental Relations 
or Water Law & Policy 
or Energy Law & Policy 
or Advanced GIS Applications3 Hours12
Year Five
Fall
MPP 405 Statistical Methods & Analysis for Public
Policy I3MPP 501Public Policy Internship3
MPP 502 Professional Development Skills 1MPP Elective3

--- Page 1095 ---
1126  Environmental Policy/Public Policy (BA/MPP)MPP Elective3 Hours13
Spring
MPP 406 Statistical Methods & Analysis Public
Policy II3MPP 500Public Policy Evaluation3
MPP Elective 3MPP Elective3 Hours12 Total Hours91
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such

--- Page 1096 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1127
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•Describe the need for government intervention and the policy
process. [BA]
•Explain the major US federal environmental laws and international
agreements. [BA]
•Recognize the role of state and local innovation in environmental
policy. [BA]
•Engage in environmental policy advocacy, development, and
implementation. [BA]•Evaluate the effectiveness of the policy toward environmental
sustainability.  [BA]
•Design policy interventions and apply criteria to assess the best
option in each speciﬁc case. [MPP]
•Understand a government budget and evaluate it from different
stakeholder positions. [MPP]
•Understand the political process at the federal, state and local
government levels. [MPP]
•Develop political messaging to advocate for policies and to build a
political coalition of support for a program. [MPP]
•Apply appropriate statistical procedures used in public policy
research and practice. [MPP]
•Design, conduct and critique program evaluations. [MPP]
•Experience working in the public policy arena in government agency,
non-proﬁt, research, or private sector organization. [MPP]
SES Shared Learning Outcomes
All SES majors share the following Program Learning Objectives, in
addition to their unique major-speciﬁc Program Learning Objectives:
1. Articulate the foundational principles of natural and social sciences
and humanities essential to solving environmental problems.
2. Critically evaluate the accuracy and credibility of information relating to
environmental topics.
3. Employ knowledge and skills to design and implement solutions that
contribute to a just and sustainable world.
4. Exemplify the values of environmental and social justice through
actions to care for our common home and one another.
Environmental Science/
Business (BS/MBA)
Solving the world’s environmental crises depends on how well tomorrow's
business leaders adopt strategies that allow for sustainability to be a
leading driver in how they do business.
Loyola’s ﬁve-year Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in
environmental science or environmental studies and business
administration introduces students to the fundamental issues involved in
global, environmental and ethical business practices.
The academic content and direct, hands-on experiences within the
bachelors degrees will provide a base from which to develop skills
and knowledge in the MBA program. The program equips graduates to
promote and implement sustainable business practices.
Related Programs
Major
•Environmental Economics Sustainability: Management (BA)  (p. 931)
Combined
•Advertising Public Relations/Environmental Science and
Sustainability (BA/MS)  (p. 963)
•Environmental Studies/Business (BA/MBA)  (p. 1166 )

--- Page 1097 ---
1128  Environmental Science/Business (BS/MBA)
Curriculum
Students interested in pursuing one of the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs will complete all normal requirements for a BS in
Environmental Science.
Students may take two graduate courses that count toward the MBA
during their senior year in lieu of environmental science/studies electives.
Students complete the degree requirements for a BS in environmental
science after four years and complete the MBA at the end of the ﬁfth year.
Code Title Hours
BS RequirementsCore CurriculumBIOL 101 General Biology I 3BIOL 102General Biology II3
BIOL 111 General Biology I Lab 1BIOL 112General Biology II Lab1
CHEM 160 Chemical Structure and Properties 3CHEM 161Chemical Structure and Properties Laboratory1
ENVS 137 Foundations of Environmental Science I 3ENVS 200Environmental Careers and Professional Skills1
ENVS 203 Environmental Statistics 3ENVS 274Chemistry of the Natural Environment3
ENVS 275 Chemistry of the Environment Lab 1ENVS 276Chemistry of Environmental Pollution3
ENVS 280 Principles of Ecology 3ENVS 286SPrinciples of Ecology Lab1
PLSC 392 Environmental Politics 3Justice and Ethics ChoiceSelect one of the following: 3ENVS 284Environmental JusticePHIL 287 Environmental EthicsTHEO 204Religious Ethics and the Ecological CrisisEconomics ChoiceENVS 335Ecological Economics3or ECON 328Environmental Economics
Engaged Learning ChoiceSelect one of the following:3
ENVS 226 Science & Conservation of Freshwater EcosystemsENVS 267Bird Conservation and EcologyENVS 273 Energy and the EnvironmentENVS 283Environmental SustainabilityENVS 340 Natural History of BelizeENVS 345Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
EcosystemsENVS 350A Solutions to Environmental Problems: WaterENVS 350CSolutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
ActionENVS 350F Solutions to Environmental Problems: Food
SystemsENVS 369Field OrnithologyENVS 391 Environmental Research (with SES approval)ENVS 395Environmental Internship (with SES approval)Capstone ChoiceSelect one of the following:3
ENVS 390 Integrative SeminarENVS 391CIndependent Environmental Research (Capstone)ENVS 395C Environmental Internship (Capstone)Electives  (p. 1128 )21
MBA RequirementsPrerequisite Knowledge  1ISSCM 400N Quantitative Methods IISSCM 402NQuantitative Methods II - Statistics PrimerMBA Introductory CoursesACCT 400Financial Accounting for Business Decisions 23
ECON 420 Managerial Economics 33FINC 450Financial Management 43
MARK 460 Marketing Management 23SCMG 480Intro to Operations Management 53
Next Generation MBA CoreETHC 441NBusiness Ethics3or MGMT 446International Business Ethics
FINC 470N Business Finance 3HRER 417NManaging and Motivating in the Workplace3
ISSCM 596N Data Driven Decision Making 3MARK 425NBusiness Communication1.5
MARK 470N Research, Insights and Storytelling 3MGMT 426NLeadership Development1.5
MGMT 430N Strategy and Leadership 3MGMT 431NBusiness Consulting Course3MBA Electives9Total Hours114
1ISSCM 400N Quantitative Methods I  and ISSCM 402N QuantitativeMethods II - Statistics Primer  are zero credit, pass/fail, online, self-paced courses which can be taken in the ﬁrst quarter of the MBAdegree if necessary.ISSCM 400N  can be  waived with grade of B or above
in the MATH 131  Applied Calculus I   or MATH 161  Calculus I.ISSCM 402N  can be waived with grade B or abovein STAT 103  Fundamentals of Statistics   or   ENVS 203  Environmental
Statistics ).
2Can be taken as an elective in senior year
3ECON 420 Managerial Economics  can be waived with grade of B higher
in ECON 201  and ECON 202
4FINC 450 Financial Management  can be waived with grade of B or
higher in  FINC 301 .
5SCMG 480 Intro to Operations Management  can be waived with grade
of B or higher in  SCMG 332
BS Elective Course Options
Society, Ethics, and Justice Electives
Code Title Hours
COMM 101 Public Speaking & Critical Thinking 3COMM 277Organizational Communication3
COMM 306 Environmental Advocacy 3COMM 322Guerilla Media3
COMM 379 Digital Sustainability 3

--- Page 1098 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1129ENGL 288Nature in Literature3
ENVS 204 Gender, Health & Environment 3ENVS 230Feeding the Planet: Global Perspectives on
Sustainability, Culture and Food3
ENVS 260 /
COMM 260Environmental Journalism 3ENVS 279 /
HIST 279EClimate and History3
ENVS 284 Environmental Justice 3ENVS 285Eco-spirituality3
ENVS 297 /
HIST 297ENorth American Environmental History 3ENVS 298Special Topics (with SES approval)1-12
ENVS 338 Climate Change and Human Health 3ENVS 350ASolutions to Environmental Problems: Water3
ENVS 350C Solutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
Action3ENVS 350FSolutions to Environmental Problems: Food
Systems3
ENVS 383 Human Dimensions of Conservation 3ENVS 391Environmental Research (with SES approval)1-3
ENVS 395 Environmental Internship (with SES approval) 3ENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)3
ENVS 399 Directed Readings (with SES approval) 1-3PHIL 287Environmental Ethics3
PSYC 277 Environmental Psychology 3SOCL 226Science, Technology, & Society3
SOCL 252 Global Inequalities 3SOCL 272Environmental Sociology3
SOCL 276 The Sociology and Politics of Food 3SOCL 278Global Health3
THEO 204 Religious Ethics and the Ecological Crisis 3THEO 344Theology and Ecology3
Policy, Economics, and Resource Management Electives
Code Title Hours
ECON 328 Environmental Economics 3ENVS 230Feeding the Planet: Global Perspectives on
Sustainability, Culture and Food3
ENVS 298 Special Topics (with SES approval) 1-12ENVS 300Introduction to Public Health3
ENVS 310 Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy 3ENVS 311Natural Resources and Land Use Law & Policy3
ENVS 312 Water Law & Policy 3ENVS 313Energy Law & Policy3
ENVS 316 Energy and Power Systems 3ENVS 327Food Systems Analysis3
ENVS 333 Introduction to the Circular Economy 3ENVS 335Ecological Economics3
ENVS 336 Design for Circular & Sustainable Business 3ENVS 338Climate Change and Human Health3
ENVS 363 Sustainable Business Management 3ENVS 383Human Dimensions of Conservation3ENVS 384 Conservation Economics 3ENVS 389Ecological Risk Assessment3
ENVS 391 Environmental Research (with SES approval) 1-3ENVS 395Environmental Internship (with SES approval)3
ENVS 398 Special Topics (with SES approval) 3ENVS 399Directed Readings (with SES approval)1-3
GLST 305 Globalization and Environmental Sustainability 3MGMT 201Managing People and Organizations3
PLSC 354 Global Environmental Politics 3
 Environmental Science Electives
Code Title Hours
Environmental Science ElectivesANTH 104The Human Ecological Footprint3
ANTH 303 People and Conservation 3ENVS 204Gender, Health & Environment3
ENVS 215 /
BIOL 215Ornithology 3ENVS 218Biodiversity & Biogeography3
ENVS 223 Soil Ecology 3ENVS 224Climate & Climate Change3
ENVS 226 Science & Conservation of Freshwater Ecosystems 3ENVS 267Bird Conservation and Ecology3
ENVS 273 Energy and the Environment 3ENVS 278Hydrology3
ENVS 283 Environmental Sustainability 3ENVS 298Special Topics (with SES approval)1-12
ENVS 300 Introduction to Public Health 3ENVS 301Environmental Health3
ENVS 303 Introduction to Epidemiology 3ENVS 320Conservation Biology3
ENVS 322 Invasive Species 3ENVS 323Environmental Microbiology3
ENVS 324 Climate Science 3ENVS 325Sustainable Agriculture3
ENVS 326 Agroecosystems 3ENVS 327Food Systems Analysis3
ENVS 330 Restoration Ecology 3ENVS 338Climate Change and Human Health3
ENVS 340 Natural History of Belize 3ENVS 345Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
Ecosystems3
ENVS 350A Solutions to Environmental Problems: Water 3ENVS 350CSolutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
Action3
ENVS 350F Solutions to Environmental Problems: Food
Systems3ENVS 367Mammalogy3
ENVS 369 Field Ornithology 3ENVS 380Introduction to Geographic Information Systems3
ENVS 381 Advanced GIS Applications 3ENVS 382Remote Sensing3
ENVS 383 Human Dimensions of Conservation 3

--- Page 1099 ---
1130  Environmental Science/Business (BS/MBA)ENVS 385Introduction to Global Health3
ENVS 386 Python Programming for GIS 3ENVS 387Principles of Ecotoxicology3
ENVS 389 Ecological Risk Assessment 3ENVS 391Environmental Research (with SES approval)1-3
ENVS 395 Environmental Internship (with SES approval) 3ENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)3
ENVS 399 Directed Readings (with SES approval) 1-3BIOL, CHEM, PHYS 300-level courses (with SES approval)Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's Program
Tip
In addition to completing the normal requirements for the BS
environmental science or BA environmental studies, students planning to
enter the MBA program should note the following:
•A GPA of 3.20 or higher is required for admission to this program. 
•The Quinlan School of Business Graduate Program uses a quarter
system rather than a semester system. Admission start terms are Fall
and Spring quarters only.  
First-year / Sophomore : Arrange undergraduate course scheduling to
preserve six hours of free electives until senior year.
During their ﬁrst two years, students should take  ECON 201 Principles of
Microeconomics  and  ECON 202 Principles of Macroeconomics , which will
satisfy the social science requirement of the Core Curriculum and allow
the student to waive out of  ECON 420 Managerial Economics .
Junior year : attend MBA Accelerated Bachelor / Masters (ABM) info
sessions.
Senior year : Apply to the program by October 15 in are completing your
Bachelors degree in May.  Apply to the program by April 15 if you are
completing your Bachelors degree in December.  After admission to the
MBA, meet with MBA advisor for planning your graduate business course
schedule.
Take  ACCT 400 Financial Accounting for Business
Decisions  and  MARK 460 Marketing Management , which will count as
free electives toward the BS or BA degree. Complete all requirements for
the BS or BA.
Fifth year : During the ﬁfth year, students who have followed the above
directions will have a total of 14 (or less) MBA courses remaining.
These courses can be completed full-time at the rate of three or four per
quarter (including the summer quarter). Students also have the option
to complete the MBA program on a part-time basis (usually one or two
courses per quarter).
Students should contact the Quinlan School of Business for speciﬁc MBA
requirements and an academic calendar.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
Course Title Hours
Year One
Fall
BIOL 101 General Biology I 3BIOL 111General Biology I Lab1CHEM 160 Chemical Structure and Properties 3CHEM 161Chemical Structure and Properties
Laboratory1ENVS 137Foundations of Environmental Science I3 Hours11
Spring
BIOL 102 General Biology II 3BIOL 112General Biology II Lab1
CHEM 180 Chemical Reactivity I 3CHEM 181Chemical Reactivity I Lab1
ENVS 200 Environmental Careers and Professional
Skills1ENVS 203Environmental Statistics3 Hours12
Year Two
FallECON 201Principles of Microeconomics3
Environmental Science Elective 3MATH 131 
or MATH 161Applied Calculus I 
or Calculus I3-4
ENVS 280 Principles of Ecology 3ENVS 286SPrinciples of Ecology Lab1Environmental Science Elective3 Hours16
Spring
Justice & Ethics Choice 3ECON 202Principles of Macroeconomics 13Environmental Science Elective3 Hours6
Year Three
Fall
ENVS 274 Chemistry of the Natural Environment 3ENVS 275Chemistry of the Environment Lab1
Environmental Science 300 Level Elective 3Society, Ethics, & Justice Elective3 Hours10
SpringENVS 335 
or ECON 328Ecological Economics 
or Environmental Economics3
PLSC 392 Environmental Politics 3Policy, Economics, & Resource Management Elective3300 Level Environmental Science Elective3 Hours12
Year Four
Fall
Engaged Learning Choice 3ACCT 400 
or MARK 460 
or SCMG 480Financial Accounting for Business
Decisions 
or Marketing Management 
or Intro to Operations Management3
FINC 301 Introductory Business Finance 3MBA Elective3 Hours12

--- Page 1100 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1131
SpringCapstone Choice3
ACCT 400 
or MARK 460 
or SCMG 480Financial Accounting for Business
Decisions 
or Marketing Management 
or Intro to Operations Management3ACCT 400 
or MARK 460 
or SCMG 480Financial Accounting for Business
Decisions 
or Marketing Management 
or Intro to Operations Management3MBA Elective3 Hours12
Year Five
Fall
MARK 425N Business Communication 1.5MGMT 426NLeadership Development1.5
MGMT 430N Strategy and Leadership 3HRER 417NManaging and Motivating in the Workplace3MBA Elective3 Hours12
Spring
MARK 470N Research, Insights and Storytelling 3ISSCM 596N3
FINC 470N Business Finance 3ETHC 441N 
or MGMT 430NBusiness Ethics 
or Strategy and Leadership3 Hours12 Total Hours115
1ECON 420 Managerial Economics  can be waived with grade of B higher
in ECON 201  and  ECON 202
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses

--- Page 1101 ---
1132  Environmental Science/Business (BS/MBA)
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in theSchool/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•Explain the physical, biological, and chemical structure and function
of ecosystems. [BS]
•Examine the causes and consequences of environmental change at
local to global scales. [BS]
•Apply scientiﬁc knowledge to evaluate policy, management, and other
solutions that aim to enhance environmental sustainability. [BS]
•Create an action plan for leading a professional and personal life that
promotes environmental sustainability. [BS]
•Integrative Business Knowledge: Graduates will be proﬁcient
in integrating the techniques, processes, and procedures of the
fundamental business disciplines (accounting, economics, ﬁnance,
marketing, management, human resource management, operations
management, and information technology). They will be able to apply
theory, skills, and knowledge from these disciplines to business
practice. [MBA]
•Critical Decision Making: Graduates will demonstrate their capacity
for critical analysis in processing, interpreting, and managing the
quantitative and qualitative information necessary for effective
managerial decision making. [MBA]
•Ethics and Responsible Leadership: Graduates will understand how
to be a leader in business who exhibits personal integrity, ethical
awareness, and an ability to apply ethical principles to business
practice. [MBA]
•Global Perspective and Awareness of Diversity: Graduates will have
a global perspective by recognizing international business issues
and appreciating diversity, including culture, race, religion, and
gender. [MBA]
•Communication: Graduates will be able to communicate effectively,
orally. Graduates will be able to communicate effectively, in
writing. [MBA]
SES Shared Learning Outcomes
All SES majors share the following Program Learning Objectives, in
addition to their unique major-speciﬁc Program Learning Objectives:
1. Articulate the foundational principles of natural and social sciences
and humanities essential to solving environmental problems.
2. Critically evaluate the accuracy and credibility of information relating to
environmental topics.
3. Employ knowledge and skills to design and implement solutions that
contribute to a just and sustainable world.

--- Page 1102 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1133
4. Exemplify the values of environmental and social justice through
actions to care for our common home and one another.
Environmental Science/Digital Media
and Storytelling (BS/MC)
The new Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's (ABM) program allows SES
students to earn their undergraduate degree in their declared major, while
also earning a master’s degree from the SOC in either the Digital Media
and Storytelling or Global Strategic Communication graduate programs.
The program trains environmental scientists to be better communicators.
While environmental scientists are trained to investigate, analyze data,
and interpret results, they are not taught how to communicate their
results and conclusions in ways that are readily accessible to the general
public, CEOs, or legislators. For students in the School of Environmental
Sustainability, the ABM program will help them with writing, public
speaking, conference presentations, television and radio interviews, and
social media messaging.
Related Programs
Combined
•Environmental Policy/Digital Media and Storytelling (BA/MC)
(p. 1108 )
•Environmental Studies/Digital Media and Storytelling (BA/MC)
(p. 1171 )
Curriculum
Environmental Science students complete coursework that includes
both a heavy dose of basic science requirements and courses spanning
a variety of disciplines pertinent to understanding the context in which
environmental challenges reside.
The BS in Environmental Science can be taken without a concentration
[66 credit hours] or with a chosen concentration in Conservation and
Restoration Ecology [68 credit hours]; Environmental Health [69 credit
hours]; or Food Systems and Sustainable Agriculture [66 credit hours].
  Students can take 12 credits worth of 400-level classes in their senior
year.
Code Title Hours
BS RequirementsCore CurriculumBIOL 101 
& BIOL 111General Biology I 
and General Biology I Lab4BIOL 102 
& BIOL 112General Biology II 
and General Biology II Lab4
CHEM 160 Chemical Structure and Properties 3CHEM 161Chemical Structure and Properties Laboratory1
ENVS 137 Foundations of Environmental Science I 3ENVS 200Environmental Careers and Professional Skills1
ENVS 203 Environmental Statistics 3ENVS 274Chemistry of the Natural Environment3
ENVS 275 Chemistry of the Environment Lab 1ENVS 276Chemistry of Environmental Pollution3
ENVS 280 Principles of Ecology 3ENVS 286SPrinciples of Ecology Lab1PLSC 392 Environmental Politics 3Justice and Ethics ChoiceSelect one of the following: 3ENVS 284Environmental JusticePHIL 287 Environmental EthicsTHEO 204Religious Ethics and the Ecological CrisisEconomics ChoiceENVS 335Ecological Economics3or ECON 328Environmental Economics
Engaged Learning ChoiceSelect one of the following:3
ENVS 226 Science & Conservation of Freshwater EcosystemsENVS 267Bird Conservation and EcologyENVS 273 Energy and the EnvironmentENVS 283Environmental SustainabilityENVS 340 Natural History of BelizeENVS 345Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
EcosystemsENVS 350A Solutions to Environmental Problems: WaterENVS 350CSolutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
ActionENVS 350F Solutions to Environmental Problems: Food
SystemsENVS 369Field OrnithologyENVS 391 Environmental Research (with SES approval)ENVS 395Environmental Internship (with SES approval)Capstone ChoiceSelect one of the following:3
ENVS 390 Integrative SeminarENVS 391CIndependent Environmental Research (Capstone)ENVS 395C Environmental Internship (Capstone)Concentrations and Electives  (p.  )21-24
See concentration and elective options belowMC RequirementsCOMM 400 Designing for Digital Environments 3COMM 405Story Development and Production3
COMM 410 Media Law for Inclusive Digital Storytelling 3COMM 415Data-Powered Digital Storytelling3
COMM 420 Digital Production: Storytelling with Impact 3COMM 425Digital Marketing and Analytics3
COMM 430 2D Design for Print and the Web 3COMM 450Capstone II3Elective Courses from List of Electives for DMST  (p. 1136 )12Total Hours102-105
Concentration Requirements and Elective
Course Options
Environmental Science (Without Concentration)
Code Title Hours
ElectivesOne (1) course in Society, Ethics, and Justice Electives3

--- Page 1103 ---
1134  Environmental Science/Digital Media and Storytelling (BS/MC)
One (1) course in Policy, Economics, and Resource Management
Electives3Five (5) courses in Environmental Science Electives, at least three (3)
of which must be at 300-level15Total Hours21
Environmental Science: Conservation and Restoration
Ecology Concentration
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesENVS 218Biodiversity & Biogeography3
ENVS 320 Conservation Biology 3ENVS 321Conservation Biology Lab1
ENVS 330 Restoration Ecology 3ENVS 331Restoration Ecology Lab1
ENVS 383 Human Dimensions of Conservation 3ElectivesOne (1) course in Society, Ethics, and Justice Electives 3One (1) course in Policy, Economics, and Resource Management
Electives3One (1) course in Environmental Science Electives3Total Hours23
Environmental Science: Environmental Health
Concentration
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesENVS 300Introduction to Public Health3
ENVS 301 Environmental Health 3ENVS 303Introduction to Epidemiology3
ElectivesOne (1) course in Environmental Health and Society Electives3Four (4) courses in Environmental Science Electives12Total Hours24
Environmental Science:  Food Systems and Sustainable
Agriculture Concentration
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesENVS 207Plants and Civilization3
ENVS 223 Soil Ecology 3ENVS 325Sustainable Agriculture3
Food Systems and Sustainable Agriculture Required ChoiceSelect one of the following:3
ENVS 230 Feeding the Planet: Global Perspectives on
Sustainability, Culture and FoodENVS 326AgroecosystemsENVS 327 Food Systems AnalysisENVS 350FSolutions to Environmental Problems: Food
SystemsElectivesOne (1) course in Society, Ethics, and Justice Electives3One (1) course in Policy, Economics, and Resource Management
Electives3One (1) course in Environmental Science Electives3Total Hours21
Electives
Society, Ethics, and Justice Electives
Code Title Hours
COMM 101 Public Speaking & Critical Thinking 3COMM 277Organizational Communication3
COMM 306 Environmental Advocacy 3COMM 322Guerilla Media3
COMM 379 Digital Sustainability 13ENGL 288Nature in Literature3
ENVS 204 Gender, Health & Environment 3ENVS 230Feeding the Planet: Global Perspectives on
Sustainability, Culture and Food3
ENVS 260 /
COMM 260Environmental Journalism 3ENVS 279 /
HIST 279EClimate and History3
ENVS 284 Environmental Justice 3ENVS 285Eco-spirituality3
ENVS 297 /
HIST 297ENorth American Environmental History 3ENVS 298Special Topics (with SES approval)1-12
ENVS 338 Climate Change and Human Health 3ENVS 350ASolutions to Environmental Problems: Water3
ENVS 350C Solutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
Action3ENVS 350FSolutions to Environmental Problems: Food
Systems3
ENVS 383 Human Dimensions of Conservation 3ENVS 391Environmental Research (with SES approval)1-3
ENVS 395 Environmental Internship (with SES approval) 3ENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)3
ENVS 399 Directed Readings (with SES approval) 1-3PHIL 287Environmental Ethics3
PSYC 277 Environmental Psychology 3SOCL 226Science, Technology, & Society3
SOCL 252 Global Inequalities 3SOCL 272Environmental Sociology3
SOCL 276 The Sociology and Politics of Food 3SOCL 278Global Health3
THEO 204 Religious Ethics and the Ecological Crisis 3THEO 344Theology and Ecology3
1For students with the Conservation and Restoration Ecology
Concentration or without a Concentration.
Policy, Economics, and Resource Management Electives
Code Title Hours
COMM 379 Digital Sustainability 13ECON 328Environmental Economics3

--- Page 1104 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1135
ENVS 230 Feeding the Planet: Global Perspectives on
Sustainability, Culture and Food3ENVS 298Special Topics (with SES approval)1-12
ENVS 300 Introduction to Public Health 3ENVS 310Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy3
ENVS 311 Natural Resources and Land Use Law & Policy 3ENVS 312Water Law & Policy3
ENVS 313 Energy Law & Policy 3ENVS 316Energy and Power Systems3
ENVS 327 Food Systems Analysis 3ENVS 333Introduction to the Circular Economy3
ENVS 335 Ecological Economics 3ENVS 336Design for Circular & Sustainable Business3
ENVS 338 Climate Change and Human Health 3ENVS 351Introduction to Sustainability Concepts & Impacts
13
ENVS 363 Sustainable Business Management 3ENVS 383Human Dimensions of Conservation3
ENVS 384 Conservation Economics 3ENVS 389Ecological Risk Assessment3
ENVS 391 Environmental Research (with SES approval) 1-3ENVS 395Environmental Internship (with SES approval)3
ENVS 398 Special Topics (with SES approval) 3ENVS 399Directed Readings (with SES approval)1-3
GLST 305 Globalization and Environmental Sustainability 3MGMT 201Managing People and Organizations3
PLSC 354 Global Environmental Politics 3
1For students in the Food Systems and Sustainable
Agriculture Concentration only.
Environmental Science Electives
Code Title Hours
Environmental Science ElectivesANTH 104The Human Ecological Footprint3
ANTH 303 People and Conservation 3ENVS 204Gender, Health & Environment 33
ENVS 207 Plants and Civilization 43ENVS 215 /
BIOL 215Ornithology 13
ENVS 218 Biodiversity & Biogeography 33ENVS 223Soil Ecology 33
ENVS 224 Climate & Climate Change 3ENVS 226Science & Conservation of Freshwater Ecosystems3
ENVS 267 Bird Conservation and Ecology 53ENVS 273Energy and the Environment 53
ENVS 278 Hydrology 63ENVS 283Environmental Sustainability3
ENVS 298 Special Topics (with SES approval) 1-12ENVS 300Introduction to Public Health 73
ENVS 301 Environmental Health 73ENVS 303Introduction to Epidemiology 73
ENVS 320 Conservation Biology 73ENVS 322Invasive Species3
ENVS 323 Environmental Microbiology 33ENVS 324Climate Science3
ENVS 325 Sustainable Agriculture 43ENVS 326Agroecosystems3
ENVS 327 Food Systems Analysis 3ENVS 330Restoration Ecology 33
ENVS 338 Climate Change and Human Health 63ENVS 340Natural History of Belize 53
ENVS 345 Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
Ecosystems 53ENVS 350ASolutions to Environmental Problems: Water3
ENVS 350C Solutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
Action3ENVS 350FSolutions to Environmental Problems: Food
Systems3
ENVS 367 Mammalogy 3ENVS 369Field Ornithology 53
ENVS 380 Introduction to Geographic Information Systems 3ENVS 381Advanced GIS Applications3
ENVS 382 Remote Sensing 3ENVS 383Human Dimensions of Conservation 73
ENVS 384 Conservation Economics 23ENVS 385Introduction to Global Health3
ENVS 386 Python Programming for GIS 3ENVS 387Principles of Ecotoxicology3
ENVS 389 Ecological Risk Assessment 3ENVS 391Environmental Research (with SES approval)1-3
ENVS 395 Environmental Internship (with SES approval) 3ENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)3
ENVS 399 Directed Readings (with SES approval) 1-3BIOL, CHEM, PHYS 300-level courses (with SES approval)1For students with the Food and Sustainable Agriculture Concentration,
the Environmental Health Concentration, or without a Concentration.
2For students in the Environmental Health Concentration only.
3For students with the Conservation and Restoration Ecology
Concentration or without a Concentration.
4For students in the Food Systems and Sustainable
Agriculture Concentration only.
5For students with the Conservation and Restoration Ecology
Concentration, the the Environmental Health Concentration, or without
a Concentration.
6For students with the Food Systems and Sustainable Agriculture
Concentration or without a Concentration.
7For students without a Concentration only.
Environmental Health and Society Elective (Environmental Health
only)
Code Title Hours
ENVS 204 Gender, Health & Environment 3ENVS 230Feeding the Planet: Global Perspectives on
Sustainability, Culture and Food3
ENVS 279 Climate and History 3ENVS 284Environmental Justice3

--- Page 1105 ---
1136  Environmental Science/Digital Media and Storytelling (BS/MC)
ENVS 285 Eco-spirituality 3ENVS 297North American Environmental History3
ENVS 298 Special Topics (with SES approval) 1-12ENVS 310Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy3
ENVS 311 Natural Resources and Land Use Law & Policy 3ENVS 312Water Law & Policy3
ENVS 313 Energy Law & Policy 3ENVS 335Ecological Economics3
ENVS 338 Climate Change and Human Health 3ENVS 340Natural History of Belize3
ENVS 350A Solutions to Environmental Problems: Water 3ENVS 350CSolutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
Action3
ENVS 350F Solutions to Environmental Problems: Food
Systems3ENVS 363Sustainable Business Management3
ENVS 383 Human Dimensions of Conservation 3ENVS 389Ecological Risk Assessment3
ENVS 391 Environmental Research (with SES approval) 1-3ENVS 395Environmental Internship (with SES approval)3
ENVS 398 Special Topics (with SES approval) 3ENVS 399Directed Readings (with SES approval)1-3
COMM 101 Public Speaking & Critical Thinking 3COMM 260Environmental Journalism3
COMM 277 Organizational Communication 3COMM 306Environmental Advocacy3
COMM 379 Digital Sustainability 3ECON 328Environmental Economics3
ENGL 288 Nature in Literature 3MGMT 201Managing People and Organizations3
PHIL 287 Environmental Ethics 3PLSC 354Global Environmental Politics3
PSYC 277 Environmental Psychology 3SOCL 226Science, Technology, & Society3
SOCL 252 Global Inequalities 3SOCL 272Environmental Sociology3
SOCL 276 The Sociology and Politics of Food 3SOCL 278Global Health3
THEO 204 Religious Ethics and the Ecological Crisis 3THEO 344Theology and Ecology3
Electives for Digital Media and
Storytelling
Code Title Hours
Advertising/Public RelationsCOMM 422Global and Multicultural Audiences and
Stakeholders3
COMM 432 Public Interest Communication 3COMM 433Corporate Communication3
COMM 437 Advertising/PR Multimedia Commercial
Production3COMM 463Intermediate Advertising Design3COMM 464 Mobile Advertising 3Film and ProductionCOMM 439 Video Documentary 3COMM 455Animation3
COMM 459 Advanced Post Production 3COMM 494Film & Digital Media Internship3
Multimedia JournalismCOMM 458Newscasting and Producing3
COMM 473 Digital Storytelling Abroad 3COMM 492Multimedia Journalism Internship3
OtherCOMM 479Digital Sustainability3
COMM 498 Directed Study for Graduate Students 1-3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year One
Fall
BIOL 101 General Biology I 3BIOL 111General Biology I Lab1
CHEM 160 Chemical Structure and Properties 3CHEM 161Chemical Structure and Properties
Laboratory1ENVS 137Foundations of Environmental Science I3 Hours11
Spring
BIOL 102 General Biology II 3BIOL 112General Biology II Lab1
CHEM 180 Chemical Reactivity I 3CHEM 181Chemical Reactivity I Lab1
ENVS 200 Environmental Careers and Professional
Skills1ENVS 203Environmental Statistics3 Hours12
Year Two
FallENVS 280Principles of Ecology3
ENVS 286S Principles of Ecology Lab 1Environmental Science Elective3 Hours7
SpringJustice & Ethics Choice3Society, Ethics, & Justice Elective3 Hours6
Year Three
Fall
ENVS 274 Chemistry of the Natural Environment 3

--- Page 1106 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1137ENVS 275Chemistry of the Environment Lab1Environmental Science 300 Level Elective3 Hours7
Spring
ENVS 335 
or ECON 328Ecological Economics 
or Environmental Economics3PLSC 392Environmental Politics3
Policy, Economics, & Resource Management Elective 3300 Level Environmental Science Elective3 Hours12
Year Four
FallEngaged Learning Choice3
COMM 405 Story Development and Production 3COMM 420Digital Production: Storytelling with Impact3COMM 306 
or COMM 370Environmental Advocacy 
or Special Topics in Advertising & Public
Relations3 Hours12
Spring
Capstone Choice 3COMM 425Digital Marketing and Analytics3
COMM 430 2D Design for Print and the Web 3COMM 306 
or COMM 379Environmental Advocacy 
or Digital Sustainability3 Hours12
Year Five
FallCOMM 400Designing for Digital Environments3
COMM 410 Media Law for Inclusive Digital Storytelling 3DMST Elective3DMST Elective3 Hours12
Spring
COMM 415 Data-Powered Digital Storytelling 3COMM 450Capstone II3
DMST Elective 3DMST Elective3 Hours12 Total Hours103
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).

--- Page 1107 ---
1138  Environmental Science/Digital Media and Storytelling (BS/MC)
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•Explain the physical, biological, and chemical structure and function
of ecosystems. [BS - no concentration]
•Examine the causes and consequences of environmental change at
local to global scales. [BS - no concentration]
•Apply scientiﬁc knowledge to evaluate policy, management, and other
solutions that aim to enhance environmental sustainability. [BS - no
concentration]
•Create an action plan for leading a professional and personal life that
promotes environmental sustainability. [BS - no concentration]
•Learn how to use state-of-the-art equipment in our Convergence
Studio and technology labs. [MC]
•Learn audience engagement and analytics to understand user
activities and to drive improvements in distribution performance.
Students will learn digital audience behavior and the legal, marketing
and economic environment for ﬁnding ideal audiences and
distributing digital content. [MC]
•Create a capstone project that integrates learning from all
coursework and culminates in a professional project that is widely
distributed to the public. [MC]
•Articulate the foundational principles of natural and social sciences
and humanities essential to solving environmental problems. [both no
concentration and all concentrations]
•Critically evaluate the accuracy and credibility of information
relating to environmental topics. [both no concentration and all
concentrations]
•Employ knowledge and skills to design and implement solutions that
contribute to a just and sustainable world. [both no concentration and
all concentrations]
•Exemplify the values of environmental and social justice through
actions to care for our common home and one another. [both no
concentration and all concentrations]

--- Page 1108 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1139
•Explain fundamental connections among ecological processes
that are the basis of unity and diversity of life. [Conservation and
Restoration Ecology concentration]
•Analyze ecological and societal data to apply best management
practices in conservation and restoration ecology. [Conservation and
Restoration Ecology concentration]
•Synthesize the social, historical, economic, political, and biological
causes, consequences, and solutions to our current biodiversity
crisis. [Conservation and Restoration Ecology concentration]
•Develop and express a personal philosophy that values protecting
and restoring our global bicultural diversity and vital ecosystems.
[Conservation and Restoration Ecology concentration]
•Examine the sources of environmental degradation and their impacts
on health. [Environmental Health concentration]
•Apply the tools of public health to characterize the impacts
on community health using a planetary health perspective.
[Environmental Health concentration]
•Integrate environmental regulatory policies to evaluate the
health impacts at local and global scales. [Environmental Health
concentration]
•Incorporate critical public health and environmental health
justice perspectives into environmental and human dimensions.
[Environmental Health concentration]
•Explain the components of food systems and their complex
interactions across spatial and temporal scales. [Food Systems and
Sustainable Agriculture concentration]
•Articulate the physical, psychological, cultural, and spiritual
signiﬁcance of food to individual and community wellbeing. [Food
Systems and Sustainable Agriculture concentration]
•Using multiple methods of analysis, evaluate the environmental
and equity impacts of different food system practices to reveal
points of leverage for social-ecological change. [Food Systems and
Sustainable Agriculture concentration]
•Engage knowledge, skills, and values through experiences that
advance sustainability, resilience, and justice within food systems.
[Food Systems and Sustainable Agriculture concentration]
SES Shared Learning Outcomes
All SES majors share the following Program Learning Objectives, in
addition to their unique major-speciﬁc Program Learning Objectives:
1. Articulate the foundational principles of natural and social sciences
and humanities essential to solving environmental problems.
2. Critically evaluate the accuracy and credibility of information relating to
environmental topics.
3. Employ knowledge and skills to design and implement solutions that
contribute to a just and sustainable world.
4. Exemplify the values of environmental and social justice through
actions to care for our common home and one another.
Environmental Science/
Environmental Science and
Sustainability (BS/MS)
Solving the world's most pressing environmental problems requires
understanding the scientiﬁc aspects of sustainability. Our program inenvironmental science prepares students to develop innovative solutions
to challenges such as climate change, air and water pollution, and
biodiversity loss.
With our Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s Program, Loyola SES students
can boost their professional credentials and save time and money by
completing an undergraduate degree along with a master of science in
environmental science and sustainability degree in as little as ﬁve years.
The economic and academic beneﬁts are substantial.
Related Programs
Major
•Environmental Science (BS)  (p. 937)
Minor
•Environmental Science Minor  (p. 944)
Combined
•Environmental Science/Business (BS/MBA)  (p. 1127 )
•Environmental Science/Digital Media and Storytelling (BS/MC)
(p. 1133 )
Curriculum
Environmental Science students complete coursework that includes
both a heavy dose of basic science requirements and courses spanning
a variety of disciplines pertinent to understanding the context in which
environmental challenges reside.
The BS in Environmental Science can be taken without a concentration
[66 credit hours] or with a chosen concentration in Conservation and
Restoration Ecology [67 credit hours]; Environmental Health [69 credit
hours]; Food Systems and Sustainable Agriculture [66 credit hours]; or
Climate & Energy [70 credit hours]. During a student's senior year two
classes per semester (12 credits total) can be taken at the Graduate
level and count towards both the BS and the Master of Science and
Environmental Sustainability, leaving 18 credits worth of coursework to
be completed after the BS degree is completed, for a total of 30 credits
for the Masters Degree.
Code Title Hours
BS RequirementsCore CurriculumBIOL 101 
& BIOL 111General Biology I 
and General Biology I Lab4Students take one of the following sequences based on
concentration:4
BIOL 102 
& BIOL 112General Biology II 
and General Biology II Lab  1PHYS 111 
& 111LCollege Physics I Lec / Dis 
and College Physics Laboratory I  2CHEM 160 Chemical Structure and Properties 3CHEM 161Chemical Structure and Properties Laboratory1
ENVS 137 Foundations of Environmental Science I 3ENVS 200Environmental Careers and Professional Skills1
ENVS 203 Environmental Statistics 3ENVS 274Chemistry of the Natural Environment3
ENVS 275 Chemistry of the Environment Lab 1ENVS 276Chemistry of Environmental Pollution3

--- Page 1109 ---
1140  Environmental Science/Environmental Science and Sustainability (BS/MS)
ENVS 280 Principles of Ecology 3ENVS 286SPrinciples of Ecology Lab1
PLSC 392 Environmental Politics 3Justice and Ethics ChoiceSelect one of the following: 3ENVS 284Environmental JusticePHIL 287 Environmental EthicsTHEO 204Religious Ethics and the Ecological CrisisEconomics ChoiceENVS 335Ecological Economics3or ECON 328Environmental Economics
Engaged Learning Choice  3,4Select one of the following:3
ENVS 226 Science & Conservation of Freshwater EcosystemsENVS 267Bird Conservation and EcologyENVS 273 Energy and the EnvironmentENVS 283Environmental SustainabilityENVS 340 Natural History of BelizeENVS 345Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
EcosystemsENVS 350A Solutions to Environmental Problems: WaterENVS 350CSolutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
ActionENVS 350F Solutions to Environmental Problems: Food
Systems 5ENVS 369Field OrnithologyENVS 391 Environmental Research (with SES approval) 5ENVS 395Environmental Internship (with SES approval) 5Capstone ChoiceSelect one of the following:3
ENVS 390 Integrative SeminarENVS 391CIndependent Environmental Research (Capstone)ENVS 395C Environmental Internship (Capstone)Concentration Courses and Electives  (p. 1140 )21-28
See designated elective categories belowMS RequirementsRequired CoursesENVS 401Sustainable Systems - Natural Science
Perspectives3
ENVS 402 Sustainable Systems - Social Science Perspectives 3Choose One of Four Concentrations9-12
Environmental Law & PolicyENVS 410Introduction to Environmental Law & PolicyENVS 411 Natural Resources and Land Use Law & PolicyENVS 412Water Law & PolicyENVS 413 Energy Law & PolicyGeographic Information SystemsENVS 480 Introduction to Geographic Information SystemsENVS 481Advanced GIS ApplicationsENVS 482 Remote SensingENVS 486Python Programming for GISSustainable Assessment and PlanningENVS 451Introduction to Sustainability Concepts & ImpactsENVS 452 Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IENVS 453Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IIENVS 454 Sustainability Plan Development & ReportingSustainable BusinessENVS 433 Introduction to the Circular EconomyENVS 435Ecological EconomicsENVS 436 Design for Circular & Sustainable BusinessENVS 463Sustainable Business ManagementElectives  (p. 1143 ) 612-15Total Hours96-100
1Students with the Conservation and Restoration Ecology,
Environmental Health, Food Systems and Sustainable Agriculture, and
without concentration must take  BIOL 102  and  BIOL 112 .
2Students in the Climate and Energy Concentration must
take  PHYS 111  and  PHYS 111L .  Students in this concentration
also take an additional PHYS course outlined in the Concentration
requirements.
3Students in the Food Systems and Sustainable Agriculture
Concentration and the Climate and Energy Concentration have limited
options to satisfy the Engaged Learning requirement.
4Students in the Climate and Energy Concentration must
take  ENVS 273  for the Engaged Learning Requirement within the major.
  This requirement is outlined in the Concentration requirements.
5Students in the Food Systems and Sustainable Agriculture
Concentration may take this course to satisfy the Engaged Learning
Requirement for the major.
6Students choosing the Geographical Information Systems
concentration must take an additional elective course to meet the total
credit hours for the MS.
Concentration Requirements and Elective
Course Options
Environmental Science (Without Concentration)
Code Title Hours
ElectivesOne (1) course in Society, Ethics, and Justice Electives3
One (1) course in Policy, Economics, and Resource Management
Electives3Five (5) courses in Environmental Science Electives, at least three (3)
of which must be at 300-level15Total Hours21
Environmental Science: Conservation and Restoration
Ecology Concentration
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesENVS 218Biodiversity & Biogeography3
ENVS 320 Conservation Biology 3ENVS 321Conservation Biology Lab1
ENVS 330 Restoration Ecology 3ENVS 331Restoration Ecology Lab1
ENVS 383 Human Dimensions of Conservation 3Electives

--- Page 1110 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1141
One (1) course in Society, Ethics, and Justice Electives 3One (1) course in Policy, Economics, and Resource Management
Electives3One (1) course in Environmental Science Electives3Total Hours23
Environmental Science: Environmental Health
Concentration
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesENVS 300Introduction to Public Health3
ENVS 301 Environmental Health 3ENVS 303Introduction to Epidemiology3
ElectivesOne (1) course in Environmental Health and Society Electives3Four (4) courses in Environmental Science Electives12Total Hours24
Environmental Science:  Food Systems and Sustainable
Agriculture Concentration
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesENVS 207Plants and Civilization3
ENVS 223 Soil Ecology 3ENVS 325Sustainable Agriculture3
Food Systems and Sustainable Agriculture Required ChoiceSelect one of the following:3
ENVS 230 Feeding the Planet: Global Perspectives on
Sustainability, Culture and FoodENVS 326AgroecosystemsENVS 327 Food Systems AnalysisENVS 350FSolutions to Environmental Problems: Food
SystemsElectivesOne (1) course in Society, Ethics, and Justice Electives3
One (1) course in Policy, Economics, and Resource Management
Electives3One (1) course in Environmental Science Electives3Total Hours21
Environmental Science:  Climate and Energy
Concentration
Code Title Hours
Required Physics Core CoursePHYS 112College Physics II Lec/Disc3
PHYS 112L College Physics Lab II 1Required Climate and Energy CoursesENVS 224 Climate & Climate Change 3ENVS 273Energy and the Environment 13
ENVS 313 Energy Law & Policy 3ENVS 316Energy and Power Systems3
ENVS 324 Climate Science 3ElectivesOne (1) course in Business, Economics, & Management Electives 3One (1) course in Communication Electives3One (1) course in Methods & Analysis Electives3Total Hours28
1This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.
Electives
Society, Ethics, and Justice Electives
Code Title Hours
COMM 101 Public Speaking & Critical Thinking 3COMM 277Organizational Communication3
COMM 306 Environmental Advocacy 3COMM 322Guerilla Media3
COMM 379 Digital Sustainability 13ENGL 288Nature in Literature3
ENVS 204 Gender, Health & Environment 3ENVS 230Feeding the Planet: Global Perspectives on
Sustainability, Culture and Food3
ENVS 260 /
COMM 260Environmental Journalism 3ENVS 279 /
HIST 279EClimate and History3
ENVS 284 Environmental Justice 3ENVS 285Eco-spirituality3
ENVS 297 /
HIST 297ENorth American Environmental History 3ENVS 298Special Topics (with SES approval)1-12
ENVS 338 Climate Change and Human Health 3ENVS 350ASolutions to Environmental Problems: Water3
ENVS 350C Solutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
Action3ENVS 350FSolutions to Environmental Problems: Food
Systems3
ENVS 383 Human Dimensions of Conservation 3ENVS 391Environmental Research (with SES approval)1-3
ENVS 395 Environmental Internship (with SES approval) 3ENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)3
ENVS 399 Directed Readings (with SES approval) 1-3PHIL 287Environmental Ethics3
PSYC 277 Environmental Psychology 3SOCL 226Science, Technology, & Society3
SOCL 252 Global Inequalities 3SOCL 272Environmental Sociology3
SOCL 276 The Sociology and Politics of Food 3SOCL 278Global Health3
THEO 204 Religious Ethics and the Ecological Crisis 3THEO 344Theology and Ecology3
1For students with the Conservation and Restoration Ecology
Concentration or without a Concentration.

--- Page 1111 ---
1142  Environmental Science/Environmental Science and Sustainability (BS/MS)
Policy, Economics, and Resource Management Electives
Code Title Hours
COMM 379 Digital Sustainability 13ECON 328Environmental Economics3
ENVS 230 Feeding the Planet: Global Perspectives on
Sustainability, Culture and Food3ENVS 298Special Topics (with SES approval)1-12
ENVS 300 Introduction to Public Health 3ENVS 310Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy3
ENVS 311 Natural Resources and Land Use Law & Policy 3ENVS 312Water Law & Policy3
ENVS 313 Energy Law & Policy 3ENVS 316Energy and Power Systems3
ENVS 327 Food Systems Analysis 3ENVS 333Introduction to the Circular Economy3
ENVS 335 Ecological Economics 3ENVS 336Design for Circular & Sustainable Business3
ENVS 338 Climate Change and Human Health 3ENVS 351Introduction to Sustainability Concepts & Impacts
13
ENVS 363 Sustainable Business Management 3ENVS 383Human Dimensions of Conservation3
ENVS 384 Conservation Economics 3ENVS 389Ecological Risk Assessment3
ENVS 391 Environmental Research (with SES approval) 1-3ENVS 395Environmental Internship (with SES approval)3
ENVS 398 Special Topics (with SES approval) 3ENVS 399Directed Readings (with SES approval)1-3
GLST 305 Globalization and Environmental Sustainability 3MGMT 201Managing People and Organizations3
PLSC 354 Global Environmental Politics 3
1For students in the Food Systems and Sustainable
Agriculture Concentration only.
Environmental Science Electives
Code Title Hours
Environmental Science ElectivesANTH 104The Human Ecological Footprint3
ANTH 303 People and Conservation 3ENVS 204Gender, Health & Environment 33
ENVS 207 Plants and Civilization 43ENVS 215 /
BIOL 215Ornithology 13
ENVS 218 Biodiversity & Biogeography 33ENVS 223Soil Ecology 33
ENVS 224 Climate & Climate Change 3ENVS 226Science & Conservation of Freshwater Ecosystems3
ENVS 267 Bird Conservation and Ecology 53ENVS 273Energy and the Environment 53
ENVS 278 Hydrology 63ENVS 283Environmental Sustainability3
ENVS 298 Special Topics (with SES approval) 1-12ENVS 300Introduction to Public Health 73
ENVS 301 Environmental Health 73ENVS 303Introduction to Epidemiology 73
ENVS 320 Conservation Biology 73ENVS 322Invasive Species3
ENVS 323 Environmental Microbiology 33ENVS 324Climate Science3
ENVS 325 Sustainable Agriculture 43ENVS 326Agroecosystems3
ENVS 327 Food Systems Analysis 3ENVS 330Restoration Ecology 33
ENVS 338 Climate Change and Human Health 63ENVS 340Natural History of Belize 53
ENVS 345 Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
Ecosystems 53ENVS 350ASolutions to Environmental Problems: Water3
ENVS 350C Solutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
Action3ENVS 350FSolutions to Environmental Problems: Food
Systems3
ENVS 367 Mammalogy 3ENVS 369Field Ornithology 53
ENVS 380 Introduction to Geographic Information Systems 3ENVS 381Advanced GIS Applications3
ENVS 382 Remote Sensing 3ENVS 383Human Dimensions of Conservation 73
ENVS 384 Conservation Economics 23ENVS 385Introduction to Global Health3
ENVS 386 Python Programming for GIS 3ENVS 387Principles of Ecotoxicology3
ENVS 389 Ecological Risk Assessment 3ENVS 391Environmental Research (with SES approval)1-3
ENVS 395 Environmental Internship (with SES approval) 3ENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)3
ENVS 399 Directed Readings (with SES approval) 1-3BIOL, CHEM, PHYS 300-level courses (with SES approval)1For students with the Food and Sustainable Agriculture Concentration,
the Environmental Health Concentration, or without a Concentration.
2For students in the Environmental Health Concentration only.
3For students with the Conservation and Restoration Ecology
Concentration or without a Concentration.
4For students in the Food Systems and Sustainable
Agriculture Concentration only.
5For students with the Conservation and Restoration Ecology
Concentration, the the Environmental Health Concentration, or without
a Concentration.
6For students with the Food Systems and Sustainable Agriculture
Concentration or without a Concentration.
7For students without a Concentration only.

--- Page 1112 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1143
Environmental Health and Society Elective (Environmental Health
only)
Code Title Hours
COMM 101 Public Speaking & Critical Thinking 3COMM 260Environmental Journalism3
COMM 277 Organizational Communication 3COMM 306Environmental Advocacy3
COMM 379 Digital Sustainability 3ECON 328Environmental Economics3
ENGL 288 Nature in Literature 3ENVS 204Gender, Health & Environment3
ENVS 230 Feeding the Planet: Global Perspectives on
Sustainability, Culture and Food3ENVS 279Climate and History3
ENVS 284 Environmental Justice 3ENVS 285Eco-spirituality3
ENVS 297 North American Environmental History 3ENVS 298Special Topics (with SES approval)1-12
ENVS 310 Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy 3ENVS 311Natural Resources and Land Use Law & Policy3
ENVS 312 Water Law & Policy 3ENVS 313Energy Law & Policy3
ENVS 335 Ecological Economics 3ENVS 338Climate Change and Human Health3
ENVS 340 Natural History of Belize 3ENVS 350ASolutions to Environmental Problems: Water3
ENVS 350C Solutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
Action3ENVS 350FSolutions to Environmental Problems: Food
Systems3
ENVS 363 Sustainable Business Management 3ENVS 383Human Dimensions of Conservation3
ENVS 389 Ecological Risk Assessment 3ENVS 391Environmental Research (with SES approval)1-3
ENVS 395 Environmental Internship (with SES approval) 3ENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)3
ENVS 399 Directed Readings (with SES approval) 1-3MGMT 201Managing People and Organizations3
PHIL 287 Environmental Ethics 3PLSC 354Global Environmental Politics3
PSYC 277 Environmental Psychology 3SOCL 226Science, Technology, & Society3
SOCL 252 Global Inequalities 3SOCL 272Environmental Sociology3
SOCL 276 The Sociology and Politics of Food 3SOCL 278Global Health3
THEO 204 Religious Ethics and the Ecological Crisis 3THEO 344Theology and Ecology3
Business, Economics, & Management (Climate and Energy only)
Code Title Hours
ENTR 201 Essentials of Entrepreneurship 3ENVS 336Design for Circular & Sustainable Business3ENVS 363 Sustainable Business Management 3MGMT 201Managing People and Organizations3
SCMG 232 Introduction to Supply Chain Management 3
Communication (Climate and Energy only)
Code Title Hours
COMM 101 Public Speaking & Critical Thinking 3COMM 103Business & Professional Speaking3
COMM 236 Persuasive Presentations 3COMM 237Small Group Communication3
COMM 260 Environmental Journalism 3COMM 268Persuasion3
COMM 277 Organizational Communication 3COMM 306Environmental Advocacy3
ENVS 350C Solutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
Action3
Methods & Analysis (Climate and Energy only)
Code Title Hours
DSCI 101 Fundamentals of Modern Data Science with R 3ENVS 380Introduction to Geographic Information Systems3
ENVS 382 Remote Sensing 3ENVS 386Python Programming for GIS3
SOCL 206 Principles of Social Research 3SOCL 302Qualitative Research3
STAT 303 SAS Programming & Applied Statistics 3
MS Electives 
Code Title Hours
BIOL 416 Limnology Lec/Lab 4BIOL 418Aquatic Insects Lecture & Laboratory4
BIOL 470 Biostats & Exp Design Lec/Lab 4BIOL 495Special Topics (Topic: Metagenomics)1-4
ENVS 410 Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy 3ENVS 411Natural Resources and Land Use Law & Policy3
ENVS 412 Water Law & Policy 3ENVS 413Energy Law & Policy3
ENVS 420 Conservation Biology 3ENVS 422Invasive Species3
ENVS 423 Environmental Microbiology 3ENVS 425Sustainable Agriculture3
ENVS 426 Agroecosystems 3ENVS 427Food Systems Analysis3
ENVS 430 Restoration Ecology 3ENVS 433Introduction to the Circular Economy3
ENVS 435 Ecological Economics 3ENVS 436Design for Circular & Sustainable Business3
ENVS 438 Climate Change and Human Health 3ENVS 451Introduction to Sustainability Concepts & Impacts3
ENVS 452 Sustainability Assessment & Reporting I 3ENVS 453Sustainability Assessment & Reporting II3
ENVS 454 Sustainability Plan Development & Reporting 3ENVS 463Sustainable Business Management3

--- Page 1113 ---
1144  Environmental Science/Environmental Science and Sustainability (BS/MS)
ENVS 467 Mammalogy 3ENVS 480Introduction to Geographic Information Systems3
ENVS 481 Advanced GIS Applications 3ENVS 482Remote Sensing3
ENVS 483 Human Dimensions of Conservation 3ENVS 484Conservation Economics3
ENVS 486 Python Programming for GIS 3ENVS 487Principles of Ecotoxicology3
ENVS 489 Ecological Risk Assessment 3ENVS 491Independent Environmental Research (upon
approval)1-4
ENVS 498 Special Topics (upon approval) 1-12ENVS 498LSpecial Topics with Lab (upon approval)1-4
ENVS 499 Directed Readings (upon approval) 1-3MPBH 401Environmental Health3
MPBH 402 Public Health Practice and Management 3MPBH 403Introduction to Epidemiology3
MPBH 404 Biostatistics for Health and Biological Science 3MPBH 407Public Health Policy: Concepts and Practice3
MPBH 409 Biostatistics I 3MPBH 412Intro to Statistical Computing for Public Health2
MPBH 414 Introduction to Global Health 3MPBH 421Biostatistics II3
MPBH 423 Intermediate Epidemiology 3MPP 400Policy Design and Analysis3
MPP 401 Analytical Tools in Public Policy 3MPP 402Cost Beneﬁt Analysis3
MPP 403 Public Budget and Finance 3MPP 404Public Policy Process3
MPP 405 Statistical Methods & Analysis for Public Policy I 3MPP 406Statistical Methods & Analysis Public Policy II3
MPP 408 Political Feasibility Analysis 3PSYC 460Social Psychological Theory3
PSYC 461 Attitude and Attitude Change 3PSYC 486Methods of Program Evaluation3
SOCL 412 Qualitative Methods in Social Research 3SOCL 414Statistical Methods Analysis I3
SOCL 415 Statistical Methods of Analysis II 3SOCL 446Knowledge, Power & Expertise3
SOCL 463 Sociology & Natural Environment 3STAT 403SAS Program & Applied Statistics3
STAT 407 Statistical Design 3STAT 436Topics in Biostatistics3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.Suggested Sequence of Courses - Professional Track
Course Title Hours
Year One
Fall
BIOL 101 General Biology I 3BIOL 111General Biology I Lab1
CHEM 160 Chemical Structure and Properties 3CHEM 161Chemical Structure and Properties
Laboratory1ENVS 137Foundations of Environmental Science I3 Hours11
Spring
BIOL 102 General Biology II 3BIOL 112General Biology II Lab1
CHEM 180 Chemical Reactivity I 3CHEM 181Chemical Reactivity I Lab1
ENVS 200 Environmental Careers and Professional
Skills1ENVS 203Environmental Statistics3 Hours12
Year Two
FallENVS 280Principles of Ecology3
ENVS 286S Principles of Ecology Lab 1Environmental Science Elective3 Hours7
SpringJustice & Ethics Choice3Society, Ethics, & Justice Elective3 Hours6
Year Three
Fall
ENVS 274 Chemistry of the Natural Environment 3ENVS 275Chemistry of the Environment Lab1Environmental Science 300 Level Elective3 Hours7
Spring
ENVS 335 
or ECON 328Ecological Economics 
or Environmental Economics3PLSC 392Environmental Politics3 Hours6
Year Four
FallEngaged Learning Choice3
400 Level Environmental Science Elective 3400 Level Environmental Science Elective3 Hours9
SpringCapstone Choice3
400 Level Policy, Economics, & Resource Management Elective 3400 Level Environmental Science Elective3 Hours9

--- Page 1114 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1145
Year Five
FallENVS 402Sustainable Systems - Social Science
Perspectives3
400 Level Required Concentration Course  400 Level Required Concentration Course  Hours3
SpringENVS 401Sustainable Systems - Natural Science
Perspectives3
400 Level Required Concentration Course 3400 Level Required Concentration Course3 Hours9 Total Hours79
Suggested Sequence of Courses - Research Track 
Course Title Hours
Year One
Fall
BIOL 101 General Biology I 3BIOL 111General Biology I Lab1
CHEM 160 Chemical Structure and Properties 3CHEM 161Chemical Structure and Properties
Laboratory1ENVS 137Foundations of Environmental Science I3 Hours11
Spring
BIOL 102 General Biology II 3BIOL 112General Biology II Lab1
CHEM 180 Chemical Reactivity I 3CHEM 181Chemical Reactivity I Lab1
ENVS 200 Environmental Careers and Professional
Skills1ENVS 203Environmental Statistics3 Hours12
Year Two
FallENVS 280Principles of Ecology3
ENVS 286S Principles of Ecology Lab 1Environmental Science Elective3 Hours7
SpringJustice & Ethics Choice3Society, Ethics, & Justice Elective3 Hours6
Year Three
Fall
ENVS 274 Chemistry of the Natural Environment 3ENVS 275Chemistry of the Environment Lab1Environmental Science 300 Level Elective3 Hours7Spring
ENVS 335 
or ECON 328Ecological Economics 
or Environmental Economics3PLSC 392Environmental Politics3 Hours6
Year Four
FallEngaged Learning Choice3
ENVS 402 Sustainable Systems - Social Science
Perspectives3400 Level Environmental Science Elective3 Hours9
SpringCapstone Choice3
ENVS 401 Sustainable Systems - Natural Science
Perspectives3400 Level Environmental Science Elective3 Hours9
Year Five
FallENVS 496Research3-12
400 Level Required Concentration Course 3400 Level Required Concentration Course3 Hours9
SpringENVS 496Research3-12
400 Level Required Concentration Course 3400 Level Required Concentration Course3 Hours9 Total Hours85
School of Environmental Sustainability
Graduation Requirements
All SES students are required to complete a foreign language requirement
and a writing intensive requirement. The SES language requirement
can be fulﬁlled by 1) earning college credit at the 102-level or above; or
2) demonstrating proﬁciency via the SES foreign language proﬁciency
examination. The SES writing intensive requirement is fulﬁlled by
successfully completing two Loyola WI courses (max of one per
semester). Writing intensive courses have a “W” in the section number.
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Learning Outcomes
•Explain the physical, biological, and chemical structure and function
of ecosystems. [BS - no concentration]
•Examine the causes and consequences of environmental change at
local to global scales. [BS - no concentration]

--- Page 1115 ---
1146  Environmental Science/Global Strategic Communication (BS/MS)
•Apply scientiﬁc knowledge to evaluate policy, management, and other
solutions that aim to enhance environmental sustainability. [BS - no
concentration]
•Create an action plan for leading a professional and personal life that
promotes environmental sustainability. [BS - no concentration]
•Articulate the foundational principles of natural and social sciences
and humanities essential to solving environmental problems. [both no
concentration and all concentrations]
•Critically evaluate the accuracy and credibility of information
relating to environmental topics. [both no concentration and all
concentrations]
•Employ knowledge and skills to design and implement solutions that
contribute to a just and sustainable world. [both no concentration and
all concentrations]
•Exemplify the values of environmental and social justice through
actions to care for our common home and one another. [both no
concentration and all concentrations]
•Explain fundamental connections among ecological processes
that are the basis of unity and diversity of life. [Conservation and
Restoration Ecology concentration]
•Analyze ecological and societal data to apply best management
practices in conservation and restoration ecology. [Conservation and
Restoration Ecology concentration]
•Synthesize the social, historical, economic, political, and biological
causes, consequences, and solutions to our current biodiversity
crisis. [Conservation and Restoration Ecology concentration]
•Develop and express a personal philosophy that values protecting
and restoring our global bicultural diversity and vital ecosystems.
[Conservation and Restoration Ecology concentration]
•Examine the sources of environmental degradation and their impacts
on health. [Environmental Health concentration]
•Apply the tools of public health to characterize the impacts
on community health using a planetary health perspective.
[Environmental Health concentration]
•Integrate environmental regulatory policies to evaluate the
health impacts at local and global scales. [Environmental Health
concentration]
•Incorporate critical public health and environmental health
justice perspectives into environmental and human dimensions.
[Environmental Health concentration]
•Explain the components of food systems and their complex
interactions across spatial and temporal scales. [Food Systems and
Sustainable Agriculture concentration]
•Articulate the physical, psychological, cultural, and spiritual
signiﬁcance of food to individual and community wellbeing. [Food
Systems and Sustainable Agriculture concentration]
•Using multiple methods of analysis, evaluate the environmental
and equity impacts of different food system practices to reveal
points of leverage for social-ecological change. [Food Systems and
Sustainable Agriculture concentration]
•Engage knowledge, skills, and values through experiences that
advance sustainability, resilience, and justice within food systems.
[Food Systems and Sustainable Agriculture concentration]
•Understand the fundamental concepts of climate science and the
impacts of climate change on society and the natural environment.
[Climate and Energy concentration]•Assess the state of energy production, consumption, and the
deployment of sustainable technologies as part of a just energy
transition. [Climate and Energy concentration]
•Evaluate the role of governmental policy and regulation in solving
climate and energy related problems. [Climate and Energy
concentration]
•Apply techniques from both the natural and social sciences to design
practical and innovative solutions to contemporary climate and
energy issues. [Climate and Energy concentration]
•Deepen your understanding of complex socio-ecological systems and
their connection with sustainable development goals. [MS]
•Increase your ability to make accurate and ethical evidence-based
decisions from scientiﬁc literature. [MS]
•Expand your capacity to communicate environmental science and
sustainability issues to the scientiﬁc community, professional
colleagues, policy makers, and the general public. [MS]
•Demonstrate competence of in-depth knowledge and skills through
completion of an original research project and thesis. [MS]
SES Shared Learning Outcomes
All SES majors share the following Program Learning Objectives, in
addition to their unique major-speciﬁc Program Learning Objectives:
1. Articulate the foundational principles of natural and social sciences
and humanities essential to solving environmental problems.
2. Critically evaluate the accuracy and credibility of information relating to
environmental topics.
3. Employ knowledge and skills to design and implement solutions that
contribute to a just and sustainable world.
4. Exemplify the values of environmental and social justice through
actions to care for our common home and one another.
Environmental Science/Global
Strategic Communication (BS/MS)
The new Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's (ABM) program allows SES
students to earn their undergraduate degree in their declared major, while
also earning a master’s degree from the SOC in either the Digital Media
and Storytelling or Global Strategic Communication graduate programs.
The program trains environmental scientists to be better communicators.
While environmental scientists are trained to investigate, analyze data,
and interpret results, they are not taught how to communicate their
results and conclusions in ways that are readily accessible to the general
public, CEOs, or legislators. For students in the School of Environmental
Sustainability, the ABM program will help them with writing, public
speaking, conference presentations, television and radio interviews, and
social media messaging.
Related Programs
Combined
•Environmental Policy/Global Strategic Communication (BA/MS)
(p. 1117 )

--- Page 1116 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1147
Curriculum
Environmental Science students complete coursework that includes
both a heavy dose of basic science requirements and courses spanning
a variety of disciplines pertinent to understanding the context in which
environmental challenges reside.
The BS in Environmental Science can be taken without a concentration
[66 credit hours] or with a chosen concentration in Conservation and
Restoration Ecology [68 credit hours]; Environmental Health [69 credit
hours]; or Food Systems and Sustainable Agriculture [66 credit hours].
Students are able to take 12 credits worth of 400-level classes their
senior year.
Code Title Hours
BS RequirementsCore CurriculumBIOL 101 
& BIOL 111General Biology I 
and General Biology I Lab4BIOL 102 
& BIOL 112General Biology II 
and General Biology II Lab4
CHEM 160 Chemical Structure and Properties 3CHEM 161Chemical Structure and Properties Laboratory1
ENVS 137 Foundations of Environmental Science I 3ENVS 200Environmental Careers and Professional Skills1
ENVS 203 Environmental Statistics 3ENVS 274Chemistry of the Natural Environment3
ENVS 275 Chemistry of the Environment Lab 1ENVS 276Chemistry of Environmental Pollution3
ENVS 280 Principles of Ecology 3ENVS 286SPrinciples of Ecology Lab1
PLSC 392 Environmental Politics 3Justice and Ethics ChoiceSelect one of the following: 3ENVS 284Environmental JusticePHIL 287 Environmental EthicsTHEO 204Religious Ethics and the Ecological CrisisEconomics ChoiceENVS 335Ecological Economics3or ECON 328Environmental Economics
Engaged Learning ChoiceSelect one of the following:3
ENVS 226 Science & Conservation of Freshwater EcosystemsENVS 267Bird Conservation and EcologyENVS 273 Energy and the EnvironmentENVS 283Environmental SustainabilityENVS 340 Natural History of BelizeENVS 345Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
EcosystemsENVS 350A Solutions to Environmental Problems: WaterENVS 350CSolutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
ActionENVS 350F Solutions to Environmental Problems: Food
SystemsENVS 369Field OrnithologyENVS 391 Environmental Research (with SES approval)ENVS 395Environmental Internship (with SES approval)Capstone ChoiceSelect one of the following:3
ENVS 390 Integrative SeminarENVS 391CIndependent Environmental Research (Capstone)ENVS 395C Environmental Internship (Capstone)Concentrations and Electives  (p.  )21-24
See designated concentration and elective options belowMS RequirementsCOMM 401 Foundations of Global Strategic Communication 3COMM 402Organizational Leadership and Change
Management3
COMM 403 Strategic Communication Research Methods 3COMM 411Strategic Communication Ethics and Law3
COMM 413 Writing for Strategic Communication 3COMM 421Topics in Global Strategic Communication3
COMM 431 Campaign for Social Impact 3COMM 441Global Strategic Communication Capstone3Four (4) Electives from List of Electives for GSC  (p. 1150 )12Total Hours102-105
Concentration Requirements and Elective
Course Options
Environmental Science (Without Concentration)
Code Title Hours
ElectivesOne (1) course in Society, Ethics, and Justice Electives3
One (1) course in Policy, Economics, and Resource Management
Electives3Five (5) courses in Environmental Science Electives, at least three (3)
of which must be at 300-level15Total Hours21
Environmental Science: Conservation and Restoration
Ecology Concentration
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesENVS 218Biodiversity & Biogeography3
ENVS 320 Conservation Biology 3ENVS 321Conservation Biology Lab1
ENVS 330 Restoration Ecology 3ENVS 331Restoration Ecology Lab1
ENVS 383 Human Dimensions of Conservation 3ElectivesOne (1) course in Society, Ethics, and Justice Electives 3One (1) course in Policy, Economics, and Resource Management
Electives3One (1) course in Environmental Science Electives3Total Hours23

--- Page 1117 ---
1148  Environmental Science/Global Strategic Communication (BS/MS)
Environmental Science: Environmental Health
Concentration
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesENVS 300Introduction to Public Health3
ENVS 301 Environmental Health 3ENVS 303Introduction to Epidemiology3
ElectivesOne (1) course in Environmental Health and Society Electives3Four (4) courses in Environmental Science Electives12Total Hours24
Environmental Science:  Food Systems and Sustainable
Agriculture Concentration
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesENVS 207Plants and Civilization3
ENVS 223 Soil Ecology 3ENVS 325Sustainable Agriculture3
Food Systems and Sustainable Agriculture Required ChoiceSelect one of the following:3
ENVS 230 Feeding the Planet: Global Perspectives on
Sustainability, Culture and FoodENVS 326AgroecosystemsENVS 327 Food Systems AnalysisENVS 350FSolutions to Environmental Problems: Food
SystemsElectivesOne (1) course in Society, Ethics, and Justice Electives3
One (1) course in Policy, Economics, and Resource Management
Electives3One (1) course in Environmental Science Electives3Total Hours21
Electives
Society, Ethics, and Justice Electives
Code Title Hours
COMM 101 Public Speaking & Critical Thinking 3COMM 277Organizational Communication3
COMM 306 Environmental Advocacy 3COMM 322Guerilla Media3
COMM 379 Digital Sustainability 13ENGL 288Nature in Literature3
ENVS 204 Gender, Health & Environment 3ENVS 230Feeding the Planet: Global Perspectives on
Sustainability, Culture and Food3
ENVS 260 /
COMM 260Environmental Journalism 3ENVS 279 /
HIST 279EClimate and History3
ENVS 284 Environmental Justice 3ENVS 285Eco-spirituality3ENVS 297 /
HIST 297ENorth American Environmental History 3ENVS 298Special Topics (with SES approval)1-12
ENVS 338 Climate Change and Human Health 3ENVS 350ASolutions to Environmental Problems: Water3
ENVS 350C Solutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
Action3ENVS 350FSolutions to Environmental Problems: Food
Systems3
ENVS 383 Human Dimensions of Conservation 3ENVS 391Environmental Research (with SES approval)1-3
ENVS 395 Environmental Internship (with SES approval) 3ENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)3
ENVS 399 Directed Readings (with SES approval) 1-3PHIL 287Environmental Ethics3
PSYC 277 Environmental Psychology 3SOCL 226Science, Technology, & Society3
SOCL 252 Global Inequalities 3SOCL 272Environmental Sociology3
SOCL 276 The Sociology and Politics of Food 3SOCL 278Global Health3
THEO 204 Religious Ethics and the Ecological Crisis 3THEO 344Theology and Ecology3
1For students with the Conservation and Restoration Ecology
Concentration or without a Concentration.
Policy, Economics, and Resource Management Electives
Code Title Hours
COMM 379 Digital Sustainability 13ECON 328Environmental Economics3
ENVS 230 Feeding the Planet: Global Perspectives on
Sustainability, Culture and Food3ENVS 298Special Topics (with SES approval)1-12
ENVS 300 Introduction to Public Health 3ENVS 310Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy3
ENVS 311 Natural Resources and Land Use Law & Policy 3ENVS 312Water Law & Policy3
ENVS 313 Energy Law & Policy 3ENVS 316Energy and Power Systems3
ENVS 327 Food Systems Analysis 3ENVS 333Introduction to the Circular Economy3
ENVS 335 Ecological Economics 3ENVS 336Design for Circular & Sustainable Business3
ENVS 338 Climate Change and Human Health 3ENVS 351Introduction to Sustainability Concepts & Impacts
13
ENVS 363 Sustainable Business Management 3ENVS 383Human Dimensions of Conservation3
ENVS 384 Conservation Economics 3ENVS 389Ecological Risk Assessment3
ENVS 391 Environmental Research (with SES approval) 1-3ENVS 395Environmental Internship (with SES approval)3

--- Page 1118 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1149
ENVS 398 Special Topics (with SES approval) 3ENVS 399Directed Readings (with SES approval)1-3
GLST 305 Globalization and Environmental Sustainability 3MGMT 201Managing People and Organizations3
PLSC 354 Global Environmental Politics 3
1For students in the Food Systems and Sustainable
Agriculture Concentration only.
Environmental Science Electives
Code Title Hours
Environmental Science ElectivesANTH 104The Human Ecological Footprint3
ANTH 303 People and Conservation 3ENVS 204Gender, Health & Environment 33
ENVS 207 Plants and Civilization 43ENVS 215 /
BIOL 215Ornithology 13
ENVS 218 Biodiversity & Biogeography 33ENVS 223Soil Ecology 33
ENVS 224 Climate & Climate Change 3ENVS 226Science & Conservation of Freshwater Ecosystems3
ENVS 267 Bird Conservation and Ecology 53ENVS 273Energy and the Environment 53
ENVS 278 Hydrology 63ENVS 283Environmental Sustainability3
ENVS 298 Special Topics (with SES approval) 1-12ENVS 300Introduction to Public Health 73
ENVS 301 Environmental Health 73ENVS 303Introduction to Epidemiology 73
ENVS 320 Conservation Biology 73ENVS 322Invasive Species3
ENVS 323 Environmental Microbiology 33ENVS 324Climate Science3
ENVS 325 Sustainable Agriculture 43ENVS 326Agroecosystems3
ENVS 327 Food Systems Analysis 3ENVS 330Restoration Ecology 33
ENVS 338 Climate Change and Human Health 63ENVS 340Natural History of Belize 53
ENVS 345 Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
Ecosystems 53ENVS 350ASolutions to Environmental Problems: Water3
ENVS 350C Solutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
Action3ENVS 350FSolutions to Environmental Problems: Food
Systems3
ENVS 367 Mammalogy 3ENVS 369Field Ornithology 53
ENVS 380 Introduction to Geographic Information Systems 3ENVS 381Advanced GIS Applications3
ENVS 382 Remote Sensing 3ENVS 383Human Dimensions of Conservation 73ENVS 384 Conservation Economics 23ENVS 385Introduction to Global Health3
ENVS 386 Python Programming for GIS 3ENVS 387Principles of Ecotoxicology3
ENVS 389 Ecological Risk Assessment 3ENVS 391Environmental Research (with SES approval)1-3
ENVS 395 Environmental Internship (with SES approval) 3ENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)3
ENVS 399 Directed Readings (with SES approval) 1-3BIOL, CHEM, PHYS 300-level courses (with SES approval)1For students with the Food and Sustainable Agriculture Concentration,
the Environmental Health Concentration, or without a Concentration.
2For students in the Environmental Health Concentration only.
3For students with the Conservation and Restoration Ecology
Concentration or without a Concentration.
4For students in the Food Systems and Sustainable
Agriculture Concentration only.
5For students with the Conservation and Restoration Ecology
Concentration, the the Environmental Health Concentration, or without
a Concentration.
6For students with the Food Systems and Sustainable Agriculture
Concentration or without a Concentration.
7For students without a Concentration only.
Environmental Health and Society Elective (Environmental Health
only)
Code Title Hours
COMM 101 Public Speaking & Critical Thinking 3COMM 260Environmental Journalism3
COMM 277 Organizational Communication 3COMM 306Environmental Advocacy3
COMM 379 Digital Sustainability 3ECON 328Environmental Economics3
ENGL 288 Nature in Literature 3ENVS 204Gender, Health & Environment3
ENVS 230 Feeding the Planet: Global Perspectives on
Sustainability, Culture and Food3ENVS 279Climate and History3
ENVS 284 Environmental Justice 3ENVS 285Eco-spirituality3
ENVS 297 North American Environmental History 3ENVS 298Special Topics (with SES approval)1-12
ENVS 310 Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy 3ENVS 311Natural Resources and Land Use Law & Policy3
ENVS 312 Water Law & Policy 3ENVS 313Energy Law & Policy3
ENVS 335 Ecological Economics 3ENVS 338Climate Change and Human Health3
ENVS 340 Natural History of Belize 3ENVS 350ASolutions to Environmental Problems: Water3
ENVS 350C Solutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
Action3ENVS 350FSolutions to Environmental Problems: Food
Systems3

--- Page 1119 ---
1150  Environmental Science/Global Strategic Communication (BS/MS)
ENVS 363 Sustainable Business Management 3ENVS 383Human Dimensions of Conservation3
ENVS 389 Ecological Risk Assessment 3ENVS 391Environmental Research (with SES approval)1-3
ENVS 395 Environmental Internship (with SES approval) 3ENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)3
ENVS 399 Directed Readings (with SES approval) 1-3MGMT 201Managing People and Organizations3
PHIL 287 Environmental Ethics 3PLSC 354Global Environmental Politics3
PSYC 277 Environmental Psychology 3SOCL 226Science, Technology, & Society3
SOCL 252 Global Inequalities 3SOCL 272Environmental Sociology3
SOCL 276 The Sociology and Politics of Food 3SOCL 278Global Health3
THEO 204 Religious Ethics and the Ecological Crisis 3THEO 344Theology and Ecology3
Electives for Global Strategic
Communications
Code Title Hours
COMM 417 Media Planning 3COMM 421Topics in Global Strategic Communication 13
COMM 422 Global and Multicultural Audiences and
Stakeholders3COMM 425Digital Marketing and Analytics 23
COMM 429 Advertising and Public Relations Design 3COMM 4302D Design for Print and the Web 23
COMM 432 Public Interest Communication 3COMM 433Corporate Communication3
COMM 436 Social Media Crisis Communication 3COMM 437Advertising/PR Multimedia Commercial
Production3
COMM 444 Social Media Advertising 3COMM 461Health Communication3
COMM 463 Intermediate Advertising Design 3COMM 464Mobile Advertising3
COMM 470 Special Topics in Advertising & Public Relations 3COMM 491Advertising/Public Relations Internship3
COMM 498 Directed Study for Graduate Students 1-3
1May be repeated in a different city
2Only after all DMST students have enrolled
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.Course Title Hours
Year One
Fall
BIOL 101 General Biology I 3BIOL 111General Biology I Lab1
CHEM 160 Chemical Structure and Properties 3CHEM 161Chemical Structure and Properties
Laboratory1ENVS 137Foundations of Environmental Science I3 Hours11
Spring
BIOL 102 General Biology II 3BIOL 112General Biology II Lab1
CHEM 180 Chemical Reactivity I 3CHEM 181Chemical Reactivity I Lab1
ENVS 200 Environmental Careers and Professional
Skills1ENVS 203Environmental Statistics3 Hours12
Year Two
FallENVS 280Principles of Ecology3
ENVS 286S Principles of Ecology Lab 1Environmental Science Elective3 Hours7
SpringJustice & Ethics Choice3Society, Ethics, & Justice Elective3 Hours6
Year Three
Fall
ENVS 274 Chemistry of the Natural Environment 3ENVS 275Chemistry of the Environment Lab1Environmental Science 300 Level Elective3 Hours7
Spring
ENVS 335 
or ECON 328Ecological Economics 
or Environmental Economics3PLSC 392Environmental Politics3
Policy, Economics, & Resource Management Elective 3300 Level Environmental Science Elective3 Hours12
Year Four
FallEngaged Learning Choice3
COMM 401 Foundations of Global Strategic
Communication3COMM 413Writing for Strategic Communication3COMM 306 
or COMM 370Environmental Advocacy 
or Special Topics in Advertising & Public
Relations3 Hours12

--- Page 1120 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1151
Spring
Capstone Choice 3COMM 403Strategic Communication Research
Methods3
COMM 411 Strategic Communication Ethics and Law 3COMM 306 
or COMM 379Environmental Advocacy 
or Digital Sustainability3 Hours12
Year Five
FallCOMM 402Organizational Leadership and Change
Management3
COMM 431 Campaign for Social Impact 3400 Level COMM Elective3DMST Elective3 Hours12
Spring
COMM 421 Topics in Global Strategic Communication 3COMM 441Global Strategic Communication Capstone3
400 Level COMM Elective 3DMST Elective3 Hours12 Total Hours103
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriatedesignated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the

--- Page 1121 ---
1152  Environmental Science/Global Strategic Communication (BS/MS)
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not requestdeferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•Explain the physical, biological, and chemical structure and function
of ecosystems. [BS - no concentration]
•Examine the causes and consequences of environmental change at
local to global scales. [BS - no concentration]
•Apply scientiﬁc knowledge to evaluate policy, management, and other
solutions that aim to enhance environmental sustainability. [BS - no
concentration]
•Create an action plan for leading a professional and personal life that
promotes environmental sustainability. [BS - no concentration]
•Create and implement strategic communication campaigns that
combine advertising, public relations and integrated marketing
communication, and are responsive to community needs and
organizational goals in local and global contexts. [MS]
•Write copy and design messages to reach diverse publics and for
distribution through multiple channels, including both traditional and
digital media. [MS]
•Understand the implications and applications of integrated strategies
for digital media in marketing, advertising and public relations
practices. [MS]
•Apply appropriate research methods to plan, monitor and evaluate
public relations, advertising and other communication campaigns and
activities. [MS]
•Practice ethical communication in professional practices that are
socially responsible and in the mutual interests of the organization
and the community. [MS]
•Demonstrate the competencies to work as a professional in
advertising or public relations. [MS]
•Articulate the foundational principles of natural and social sciences
and humanities essential to solving environmental problems. [both no
concentration and all concentrations]
•Critically evaluate the accuracy and credibility of information
relating to environmental topics. [both no concentration and all
concentrations]
•Employ knowledge and skills to design and implement solutions that
contribute to a just and sustainable world. [both no concentration and
all concentrations]
•Exemplify the values of environmental and social justice through
actions to care for our common home and one another. [both no
concentration and all concentrations]
•Explain fundamental connections among ecological processes
that are the basis of unity and diversity of life. [Conservation and
Restoration Ecology concentration]
•Analyze ecological and societal data to apply best management
practices in conservation and restoration ecology. [Conservation and
Restoration Ecology concentration]
•Synthesize the social, historical, economic, political, and biological
causes, consequences, and solutions to our current biodiversity
crisis. [Conservation and Restoration Ecology concentration]

--- Page 1122 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1153
•Develop and express a personal philosophy that values protecting
and restoring our global bicultural diversity and vital ecosystems.
[Conservation and Restoration Ecology concentration]
•Examine the sources of environmental degradation and their impacts
on health. [Environmental Health concentration]
•Apply the tools of public health to characterize the impacts
on community health using a planetary health perspective.
[Environmental Health concentration]
•Integrate environmental regulatory policies to evaluate the
health impacts at local and global scales. [Environmental Health
concentration]
•Incorporate critical public health and environmental health
justice perspectives into environmental and human dimensions.
[Environmental Health concentration]
•Explain the components of food systems and their complex
interactions across spatial and temporal scales. [Food Systems and
Sustainable Agriculture concentration]
•Articulate the physical, psychological, cultural, and spiritual
signiﬁcance of food to individual and community wellbeing. [Food
Systems and Sustainable Agriculture concentration]
•Using multiple methods of analysis, evaluate the environmental
and equity impacts of different food system practices to reveal
points of leverage for social-ecological change. [Food Systems and
Sustainable Agriculture concentration]
•Engage knowledge, skills, and values through experiences that
advance sustainability, resilience, and justice within food systems.
[Food Systems and Sustainable Agriculture concentration]
SES Shared Learning Outcomes
All SES majors share the following Program Learning Objectives, in
addition to their unique major-speciﬁc Program Learning Objectives:
1. Articulate the foundational principles of natural and social sciences
and humanities essential to solving environmental problems.
2. Critically evaluate the accuracy and credibility of information relating to
environmental topics.
3. Employ knowledge and skills to design and implement solutions that
contribute to a just and sustainable world.
4. Exemplify the values of environmental and social justice through
actions to care for our common home and one another.
Environmental Science/Public Health
(BS/MPH)
Earn a dual bachelor's and master's degree in ﬁve years
The environment is a powerful determinant of public health. Combining
your environmental studies through Loyola's  School of Environmental
Sustainability (SES)  (https://www.luc.edu/sustainability/ ) with a master's
degree in public health will strengthen your ability to improve public
health.
Related Programs
Major
•Environmental Science (BS)  (p. 937)Combined
•Healthcare Administration/Public Health (BS/MPH)  (p. 1234 )
Curriculum
The BS in Environmental Science can be taken without a concentration
(66 credits) or a chosen concentration in Environmental Health (69
credits).  During a student's senior year two classes per semester (12
credits total) can be taken at the Graduate level and count towards
both the BS and the Master of Public Health, leaving 30 credits worth of
coursework to be completed after the BS degree is complete, for a total of
42 credits for the Masters Degree.  ENVS 303 should be taken as MPBH
403.
Code Title Hours
BS RequirementsCore CurriculumBIOL 101 
& BIOL 111General Biology I 
and General Biology I Lab4BIOL 102 
& BIOL 112General Biology II 
and General Biology II Lab4
CHEM 160 Chemical Structure and Properties 3CHEM 161Chemical Structure and Properties Laboratory1
ENVS 137 Foundations of Environmental Science I 3ENVS 200Environmental Careers and Professional Skills1
ENVS 203 Environmental Statistics 3ENVS 274Chemistry of the Natural Environment3
ENVS 275 Chemistry of the Environment Lab 1ENVS 276Chemistry of Environmental Pollution3
ENVS 280 Principles of Ecology 3ENVS 286SPrinciples of Ecology Lab1
PLSC 392 Environmental Politics 3Justice and Ethics ChoiceSelect one of the following: 3ENVS 284Environmental JusticePHIL 287 Environmental EthicsTHEO 204Religious Ethics and the Ecological CrisisEconomics ChoiceENVS 335Ecological Economics3or ECON 328Environmental Economics
Engaged Learning ChoiceSelect one of the following:3
ENVS 226 Science & Conservation of Freshwater EcosystemsENVS 267Bird Conservation and EcologyENVS 273 Energy and the EnvironmentENVS 283Environmental SustainabilityENVS 340 Natural History of BelizeENVS 345Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
EcosystemsENVS 350A Solutions to Environmental Problems: WaterENVS 350CSolutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
ActionENVS 350F Solutions to Environmental Problems: Food
SystemsENVS 369Field Ornithology

--- Page 1123 ---
1154  Environmental Science/Public Health (BS/MPH)
ENVS 391 Environmental Research (with SES approval)ENVS 395Environmental Internship (with SES approval)Capstone ChoiceSelect one of the following:3
ENVS 390 Integrative SeminarENVS 391CIndependent Environmental Research (Capstone)ENVS 395C Environmental Internship (Capstone)Concentrations and Electives  (p.  ) 121-24
See designated elective categories belowMPH RequirementsMPBH 400 Determinants of Population Health 3MPBH 402Public Health Practice and Management3
MPBH 403 Introduction to Epidemiology 3MPBH 404Biostatistics for Health and Biological Science3or MPBH 409Biostatistics I
MPBH 407 Public Health Policy: Concepts and Practice 3MPBH 499Public Health in Action3
MPH Track-Speciﬁc Curricula  (p. 1155 ) 15MPH Electives  1,26
Select two of the following:MPBH 413Non-Communicable Disease EpidemiologyMPBH 426 Infectious Disease EpidemiologyMPBH 432Health Impact AssessmentMPBH 495 Special TopicsApplied Practice Experience1
MPBH 410 MPH PracticumIntegrated Learning Experience2MPBH 411MPH CapstoneTotal Hours108-111
1Students could take ENVS 301 and/or ENVS 380 to satisfy MPH
elective requirements.  These must be taken at the 400 level to count
toward the MPH
2Selected courses from other schools/programs may satisfy MPH
elective requirements.
Concentration Requirements and Elective
Course Options
Environmental Science (Without Concentration)
Code Title Hours
ElectivesOne (1) course in Society, Ethics, and Justice Electives3
One (1) course in Policy, Economics, and Resource Management
Electives3Five (5) courses in Environmental Science Electives, at least three (3)
of which must be at 300-level15Total Hours21Environmental Science:  Environmental Health
Concentration
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesENVS 300Introduction to Public Health3
ENVS 301 Environmental Health 3ENVS 303Introduction to Epidemiology3
ElectivesOne (1) course in Environmental Health and Society Electives3Four (4) courses in Environmental Science Electives12Total Hours24
Electives
Environmental Science Electives
Code Title Hours
Environmental Science ElectivesANTH 104The Human Ecological Footprint3
ANTH 303 People and Conservation 3ENVS 204Gender, Health & Environment 13
ENVS 215 /
BIOL 215Ornithology 13ENVS 218Biodiversity & Biogeography 13
ENVS 223 Soil Ecology 13ENVS 224Climate & Climate Change3
ENVS 226 Science & Conservation of Freshwater Ecosystems 3ENVS 267Bird Conservation and Ecology 13
ENVS 273 Energy and the Environment 13ENVS 278Hydrology 13
ENVS 283 Environmental Sustainability 3ENVS 298Special Topics (with SES approval)1-12
ENVS 300 Introduction to Public Health 13ENVS 301Environmental Health 13
ENVS 303 Introduction to Epidemiology 13ENVS 320Conservation Biology 13
ENVS 322 Invasive Species 3ENVS 323Environmental Microbiology 13
ENVS 324 Climate Science 3ENVS 326Agroecosystems3
ENVS 327 Food Systems Analysis 3ENVS 330Restoration Ecology 13
ENVS 338 Climate Change and Human Health 13ENVS 340Natural History of Belize 13
ENVS 345 Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
Ecosystems 13ENVS 350ASolutions to Environmental Problems: Water3
ENVS 350C Solutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
Action3ENVS 350FSolutions to Environmental Problems: Food
Systems3
ENVS 367 Mammalogy 3ENVS 369Field Ornithology 13
ENVS 380 Introduction to Geographic Information Systems 3ENVS 381Advanced GIS Applications3

--- Page 1124 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1155
ENVS 382 Remote Sensing 3ENVS 383Human Dimensions of Conservation 13
ENVS 384 Conservation Economics 23ENVS 385Introduction to Global Health3
ENVS 386 Python Programming for GIS 3ENVS 387Principles of Ecotoxicology3
ENVS 389 Ecological Risk Assessment 3ENVS 391Environmental Research (with SES approval)1-3
ENVS 395 Environmental Internship (with SES approval) 3ENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)3
ENVS 399 Directed Readings (with SES approval) 1-3BIOL, CHEM, PHYS 300-level courses (with SES approval)1For students without a Concentration only.
2For students in the Environmental Health Concentration only.
Environmental Health and Society Elective (Environmental Health
only)
Code Title Hours
COMM 101 Public Speaking & Critical Thinking 3COMM 260Environmental Journalism3
COMM 277 Organizational Communication 3COMM 306Environmental Advocacy3
COMM 379 Digital Sustainability 3ECON 328Environmental Economics3
ENGL 288 Nature in Literature 3ENVS 204Gender, Health & Environment3
ENVS 230 Feeding the Planet: Global Perspectives on
Sustainability, Culture and Food3ENVS 279Climate and History3
ENVS 284 Environmental Justice 3ENVS 285Eco-spirituality3
ENVS 297 North American Environmental History 3ENVS 298Special Topics (with SES approval)1-12
ENVS 310 Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy 3ENVS 311Natural Resources and Land Use Law & Policy3
ENVS 312 Water Law & Policy 3ENVS 313Energy Law & Policy3
ENVS 335 Ecological Economics 3ENVS 338Climate Change and Human Health3
ENVS 340 Natural History of Belize 3ENVS 350ASolutions to Environmental Problems: Water3
ENVS 350C Solutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
Action3ENVS 350FSolutions to Environmental Problems: Food
Systems3
ENVS 363 Sustainable Business Management 3ENVS 383Human Dimensions of Conservation3
ENVS 389 Ecological Risk Assessment 3ENVS 391Environmental Research (with SES approval)1-3
ENVS 395 Environmental Internship (with SES approval) 3ENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)3
ENVS 399 Directed Readings (with SES approval) 1-3MGMT 201Managing People and Organizations3
PHIL 287 Environmental Ethics 3PLSC 354Global Environmental Politics3
PSYC 277 Environmental Psychology 3SOCL 226Science, Technology, & Society3
SOCL 252 Global Inequalities 3SOCL 272Environmental Sociology3
SOCL 276 The Sociology and Politics of Food 3SOCL 278Global Health3
THEO 204 Religious Ethics and the Ecological Crisis 3THEO 344Theology and Ecology3
MPH Track-Speciﬁc Curricula
Epidemiology
This hybrid program combines online and evening classes. Epidemiology
is the basic science of public health: it helps us understand the causes of
and solutions to diseases. This track equips students to design, conduct,
analyze, and interpret population health research, while they learn the
basic principles of all public health disciplines.
Code Title Hours
MPBH 412 Intro to Statistical Computing for Public Health 2MPBH 421Biostatistics II3
MPBH 423 Intermediate Epidemiology 3MPBH 427Advanced Statistical Methods1
MPBH 431 Grant Writing 3Choose One Research Methods Course from the following:3
MPBH 413 Non-Communicable Disease EpidemiologyMPBH 414Introduction to Global HealthMPBH 433 Clinical TrialsMPBH 434Systematic Review and Meta-AnalysisTotal Hours15
 Global Health Equity
This concentration is a hybrid program of online and evening classes.
Study the health of global populations with the ultimate goal of
identifying and eliminating structures and practices of inequity and
injustice to advance health equity for individuals and populations.
Code Title Hours
MPBH 414 Introduction to Global Health 3MPBH 417Global Maternal and Child Health3
MPBH 422 Population Health Planning & Management 3MPBH 431Grant Writing3
Choose one of the following:  13BEHL 407Social Determinants of Health and BioethicsBEHL 432Global BioethicsTotal Hours15
1Students may choose an elective course not on this list with Track
Director approval.
 Public Health Policy and Management
This concentration can be completed entirely online, and also can be
taken with in-person courses. This curriculum studies the organization,

--- Page 1125 ---
1156  Environmental Science/Public Health (BS/MPH)
structure, and delivery of health-related services, and associated
population health outcomes. Students may customize their academic
focus in either public health policy, administration, or both.
Code Title Hours
MPBH 416 Health Services Research Methods 3MPBH 425Policy Analysis3
Choose one of the following: 3BEHL 402Justice & Health CareBEHL 404 Biomedical Ethics and LawBEHL 407Social Determinants of Health and BioethicsBEHL 411 Systems Ethics FrameworksBEHL 412Organizational Ethics I: Business, Professionalism,
and JusticeBEHL 418 Advancing Health Equity PracticeBEHL 432Global BioethicsChoose two of the following: 6Policy-orientedMPBH 420 Public Health Law: Theories and CasesMPBH 424Health Economics and Healthcare FinancingManagement-orientedMPBH 422Population Health Planning & ManagementCMAN 533Fiscal Management in Health Care OrganizationsTotal Hours15
Suggested Sequence of Courses 
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year One
Fall
BIOL 101 General Biology I 3BIOL 111General Biology I Lab1
CHEM 160 Chemical Structure and Properties 3CHEM 161Chemical Structure and Properties
Laboratory1ENVS 137Foundations of Environmental Science I3 Hours11
Spring
BIOL 102 General Biology II 3BIOL 112General Biology II Lab1
CHEM 180 Chemical Reactivity I 3CHEM 181Chemical Reactivity I Lab1
ENVS 200 Environmental Careers and Professional
Skills1ENVS 203Environmental Statistics3 Hours12
Year Two
FallENVS 280Principles of Ecology3ENVS 286S Principles of Ecology Lab 1Environmental Science Elective3 Hours7
SpringEnvironmental Science Electives3Society, Ethics, & Justice Elective3 Hours6
Year Three
Fall
ENVS 274 Chemistry of the Natural Environment 3ENVS 275Chemistry of the Environment Lab1
300 Level Environmental Science Elective 3300 Level Environmental Science Elective3 Hours10
SpringENVS 335 
or ECON 328Ecological Economics 
or Environmental Economics3
PLSC 392 Environmental Politics 3Policy, Economics, & Resource Management Elective 300 Level Environmental Science Elective3 Hours9
Year Four
Fall
Engaged Learning Choice 3MPBH 400Determinants of Population Health3
MPBH 402 Public Health Practice and Management 3MPBH 403Introduction to Epidemiology3MPBH 431Grant Writing3 Hours15
Spring
Capstone Choice 3MPBH 407Public Health Policy: Concepts and Practice3
MPBH 404 Biostatistics for Health and Biological
Science3MPBH 499Public Health in Action3 Hours12
Year Five
FallMPBH 412Intro to Statistical Computing for Public
Health1-3
MPBH 421 Biostatistics II 3MPBH 423Intermediate Epidemiology3
Research Methods Choice 3MPH Electives3MPBH 434Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis3 Hours16-18
Spring
MPBH 410 MPH Practicum 1-3MPBH 411MPH Capstone1-3
MPBH 423 Intermediate Epidemiology 3MPBH 427Advanced Statistical Methods1-3

--- Page 1126 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1157MPH Electives3 Hours10-12 Total Hours108-112
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meetthe academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record

--- Page 1127 ---
1158  Environmental Science/Public Health (BS/MPH)
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•Evidence-based Approaches to Public Health: Apply epidemiological
methods to the breadth of settings and situations in public health
practice; Select quantitative and qualitative data collection methods
appropriate for a given public health context; Analyze quantitative
and qualitative data using biostatistics, informatics, computer-based
programming and software, as appropriate; and Interpret results of
data analysis for public health research, policy or practice. [MPH]
•Public Health & Health Care Systems: Compare the organization,
structure and function of health care, public health and regulatory
systems across national and international settings; and Discuss
the means by which structural bias, social inequities and racism
undermine health and create challenges to achieving health equity at
organizational, community and societal levels. [MPH]
•Planning & Management to Promote Health: Assess population
needs, assets and capacities that affect communities’ health; Apply
awareness of cultural values and practices to the design orimplementation of public health policies or programs; Design a
population-based policy, program, project or intervention; Explain
basic principles and tools of budget and resource management; and
Select methods to evaluate public health programs. [MPH]
•Policy in Public Health: Discuss multiple dimensions of the policy-
making process, including the roles of ethics and evidence; Propose
strategies to identify stakeholders and build coalitions and
partnerships for influencing public health outcomes; Advocate for
political, social or economic policies and programs that will improve
health in diverse populations; and Evaluate policies for their impact
on public health and health equity. [MPH]
•Leadership: Apply principles of leadership, governance and
management, which include creating a vision, empowering others,
fostering collaboration and guiding decision making; and Apply
negotiation and mediation skills to address organizational or
community challenges. [MPH]
•Communication: Select communication strategies for different
audiences and sectors; Communicate audience-appropriate public
health content, both in writing and through oral presentation;
and Describe the importance of cultural competence in
communicating public health content. [MPH]
•Interprofessional Practice: Perform effectively on interprofessional
teams. [MPH]
•Systems Thinking: Apply systems thinking tools to a public health
issue. [MPH]
•BS Learning Outcomes: Explain the physical, biological, and
chemical structure and function of ecosystems; Examine the causes
and consequences of environmental change at local to global
scales; Apply scientiﬁc knowledge to evaluate policy, management,
and other solutions that aim to enhance environmental sustainability;
and Create an action plan for leading a professional and personal life
that promotes environmental sustainability. [MPH]
•Explain the physical, biological, and chemical structure and function
of ecosystems. [BS - no concentration]
•Examine the causes and consequences of environmental change at
local to global scales. [BS - no concentration]
•Apply scientiﬁc knowledge to evaluate policy, management, and other
solutions that aim to enhance environmental sustainability. [BS - no
concentration]
•Create an action plan for leading a professional and personal life that
promotes environmental sustainability. [BS - no concentration]
•Articulate the foundational principles of natural and social sciences
and humanities essential to solving environmental problems. [both no
concentration and Environmental Health concentration]
•Critically evaluate the accuracy and credibility of information relating
to environmental topics. [both no concentration and Environmental
Health concentration]
•Employ knowledge and skills to design and implement solutions that
contribute to a just and sustainable world. [both no concentration and
Environmental Health concentration]
•Exemplify the values of environmental and social justice through
actions to care for our common home and one another. [both no
concentration and Environmental Health concentration]
•Apply the tools of public health to characterize the impacts
on community health using a planetary health perspective.
[Environmental Health concentration]
•Integrate environmental regulatory policies to evaluate the
health impacts at local and global scales. [Environmental Health
concentration]

--- Page 1128 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1159
•Incorporate critical public health and environmental health
justice perspectives into environmental and human dimensions.
[Environmental Health concentration]
•Examine the sources of environmental degradation and their impacts
on health. [Environmental Health concentration]
SES Shared Learning Outcomes
All SES majors share the following Program Learning Objectives, in
addition to their unique major-speciﬁc Program Learning Objectives:
1. Articulate the foundational principles of natural and social sciences
and humanities essential to solving environmental problems.
2. Critically evaluate the accuracy and credibility of information relating to
environmental topics.
3. Employ knowledge and skills to design and implement solutions that
contribute to a just and sustainable world.
4. Exemplify the values of environmental and social justice through
actions to care for our common home and one another.
SES Shared Learning Outcomes
All SES majors share the following Program Learning Objectives, in
addition to their unique major-speciﬁc Program Learning Objectives:
1. Articulate the foundational principles of natural and social sciences
and humanities essential to solving environmental problems.
2. Critically evaluate the accuracy and credibility of information relating to
environmental topics.
3. Employ knowledge and skills to design and implement solutions that
contribute to a just and sustainable world.
4. Exemplify the values of environmental and social justice through
actions to care for our common home and one another.
Environmental Science/Public Policy
(BS/MPP)
From ecological restoration to water conservation, from climate change
adaptation to storm water management, the challenge is clear. The need
for individuals with knowledge and skills relevant to both environmental
science and public policy has never been greater.
The SES dual degree programs with the Master of Public Policy (MPP)
prepare graduates to meet these challenges effectively in careers in
government, non-proﬁt organizations, and businesses.
Undergraduate students take four graduate courses in their senior year,
two each semester.  In their ﬁfth, graduate only year they will complete
the remaining MPP credit hours.
There are eight 3-credit required MPP courses and a one-credit required
Professional Development class. Students also take 12 elective credits
where they develop a concentration in a particular ﬁeld, such as
environmental policy.  For these electives, students can select from
graduate courses in the School of Environmental sustainability. Related Programs
Major
•Environmental Science (BS)  (p. 937)
Combined
•Environmental Policy/Public Policy (BA/MPP)  (p. 1122 )
•Environmental Studies/Public Policy (BA/MPP)  (p. 1187 )
Curriculum
These dual degree programs begin with a broad, interdisciplinary
undergraduate curriculum drawing on courses in the natural sciences,
social sciences, humanities, and business.
Undergraduate service-learning, internships, research, and study abroad
provide students with rich, experiential learning opportunities. Students
then develop more in-depth understanding of policy issues and the
professional skills necessary to influence policy outcomes as part of their
graduate studies.
Environmental Science students complete coursework that includes
both a heavy dose of basic science requirements and courses spanning
a variety of disciplines pertinent to understanding the context in which
environmental challenges reside.
The BS in Environmental Science can be taken without a concentration
[66 credit hours] or with a chosen concentration in Conservation and
Restoration Ecology [68 credit hours]; Environmental Health [69 credit
hours]; or Food Systems and Sustainable Agriculture [66 credit hours].
Four courses (12 credit hours) can be taken at the 400-level in a student's
senior year to count toward both undergraduate and graduate degree
programs.
Code Title Hours
BS RequirementsCore CurriculumBIOL 101 
& BIOL 111General Biology I 
and General Biology I Lab4BIOL 102 
& BIOL 112General Biology II 
and General Biology II Lab4
CHEM 160 Chemical Structure and Properties 3CHEM 161Chemical Structure and Properties Laboratory1
ENVS 137 Foundations of Environmental Science I 3ENVS 200Environmental Careers and Professional Skills1
ENVS 203 Environmental Statistics 3ENVS 274Chemistry of the Natural Environment3
ENVS 275 Chemistry of the Environment Lab 1ENVS 276Chemistry of Environmental Pollution3
ENVS 280 Principles of Ecology 3ENVS 286SPrinciples of Ecology Lab1
PLSC 392 Environmental Politics 3Justice and Ethics ChoiceSelect one of the following: 3ENVS 284Environmental JusticePHIL 287 Environmental EthicsTHEO 204Religious Ethics and the Ecological CrisisEconomics ChoiceENVS 335Ecological Economics3

--- Page 1129 ---
1160  Environmental Science/Public Policy (BS/MPP)or ECON 328Environmental Economics
Engaged Learning ChoiceSelect one of the following:3
ENVS 226 Science & Conservation of Freshwater EcosystemsENVS 267Bird Conservation and EcologyENVS 273 Energy and the EnvironmentENVS 283Environmental SustainabilityENVS 340 Natural History of BelizeENVS 345Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
EcosystemsENVS 350A Solutions to Environmental Problems: WaterENVS 350CSolutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
ActionENVS 350F Solutions to Environmental Problems: Food
SystemsENVS 369Field OrnithologyENVS 391 Environmental Research (with SES approval)ENVS 395Environmental Internship (with SES approval)Capstone ChoiceSelect one of the following:3
ENVS 390 Integrative SeminarENVS 391CIndependent Environmental Research (Capstone)ENVS 395C Environmental Internship (Capstone)Concentrations and Electives  (p.  )21-24
See designated elective categories belowMPP RequirementsCore RequirementsMPP 400Policy Design and Analysis3
MPP 401 Analytical Tools in Public Policy 3MPP 403Public Budget and Finance3
MPP 404 Public Policy Process 3MPP 405Statistical Methods & Analysis for Public Policy I3
MPP 406 Statistical Methods & Analysis Public Policy II 3MPP 500Public Policy Evaluation3
MPP 502 Professional Development Skills 1MPP 501Public Policy Internship3or MPP 503Public Policy Practicum
Electives  (p. 1162 )See designated elective categories below12Total Hours103-106
Concentration Requirements and Elective
Course Options
Environmental Science (Without Concentration)
Code Title Hours
ElectivesOne (1) course in Society, Ethics, and Justice Electives3
One (1) course in Policy, Economics, and Resource Management
Electives3Five (5) courses in Environmental Science Electives, at least three (3)
of which must be at 300-level15Total Hours21
Environmental Science: Conservation and Restoration
Ecology Concentration
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesENVS 218Biodiversity & Biogeography3
ENVS 320 Conservation Biology 3ENVS 321Conservation Biology Lab1
ENVS 330 Restoration Ecology 3ENVS 331Restoration Ecology Lab1
ENVS 383 Human Dimensions of Conservation 3ElectivesOne (1) course in Society, Ethics, and Justice Electives 3One (1) course in Policy, Economics, and Resource Management
Electives3One (1) course in Environmental Science Electives3Total Hours23
Environmental Science: Environmental Health
Concentration
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesENVS 300Introduction to Public Health3
ENVS 301 Environmental Health 3ENVS 303Introduction to Epidemiology3
ElectivesOne (1) course in Environmental Health and Society Electives3Four (4) courses in Environmental Science Electives12Total Hours24
Environmental Science:  Food Systems and Sustainable
Agriculture Concentration
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesENVS 207Plants and Civilization3
ENVS 223 Soil Ecology 3ENVS 325Sustainable Agriculture3
Food Systems and Sustainable Agriculture Required ChoiceSelect one of the following:3
ENVS 230 Feeding the Planet: Global Perspectives on
Sustainability, Culture and FoodENVS 326AgroecosystemsENVS 327 Food Systems AnalysisENVS 350FSolutions to Environmental Problems: Food
SystemsElectivesOne (1) course in Society, Ethics, and Justice Electives3
One (1) course in Policy, Economics, and Resource Management
Electives3

--- Page 1130 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1161One (1) course in Environmental Science Electives3Total Hours21
Electives
Society, Ethics, and Justice Electives
Code Title Hours
COMM 101 Public Speaking & Critical Thinking 3COMM 277Organizational Communication3
COMM 306 Environmental Advocacy 3COMM 322Guerilla Media3
COMM 379 Digital Sustainability 13ENGL 288Nature in Literature3
ENVS 204 Gender, Health & Environment 3ENVS 230Feeding the Planet: Global Perspectives on
Sustainability, Culture and Food3
ENVS 260 /
COMM 260Environmental Journalism 3ENVS 279 /
HIST 279EClimate and History3
ENVS 284 Environmental Justice 3ENVS 285Eco-spirituality3
ENVS 297 /
HIST 297ENorth American Environmental History 3ENVS 298Special Topics (with SES approval)1-12
ENVS 338 Climate Change and Human Health 3ENVS 350ASolutions to Environmental Problems: Water3
ENVS 350C Solutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
Action3ENVS 350FSolutions to Environmental Problems: Food
Systems3
ENVS 383 Human Dimensions of Conservation 3ENVS 391Environmental Research (with SES approval)1-3
ENVS 395 Environmental Internship (with SES approval) 3ENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)3
ENVS 399 Directed Readings (with SES approval) 1-3PHIL 287Environmental Ethics3
PSYC 277 Environmental Psychology 3SOCL 226Science, Technology, & Society3
SOCL 252 Global Inequalities 3SOCL 272Environmental Sociology3
SOCL 276 The Sociology and Politics of Food 3SOCL 278Global Health3
THEO 204 Religious Ethics and the Ecological Crisis 3THEO 344Theology and Ecology3
1For students with the Conservation and Restoration Ecology
Concentration or without a Concentration.
Policy, Economics, and Resource Management Electives
Code Title Hours
COMM 379 Digital Sustainability 13ECON 328Environmental Economics3
ENVS 230 Feeding the Planet: Global Perspectives on
Sustainability, Culture and Food3ENVS 298Special Topics (with SES approval)1-12
ENVS 300 Introduction to Public Health 3ENVS 310Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy3
ENVS 311 Natural Resources and Land Use Law & Policy 3ENVS 312Water Law & Policy3
ENVS 313 Energy Law & Policy 3ENVS 316Energy and Power Systems3
ENVS 327 Food Systems Analysis 3ENVS 333Introduction to the Circular Economy3
ENVS 335 Ecological Economics 3ENVS 336Design for Circular & Sustainable Business3
ENVS 338 Climate Change and Human Health 3ENVS 351Introduction to Sustainability Concepts & Impacts
13
ENVS 363 Sustainable Business Management 3ENVS 383Human Dimensions of Conservation3
ENVS 384 Conservation Economics 3ENVS 389Ecological Risk Assessment3
ENVS 391 Environmental Research (with SES approval) 1-3ENVS 395Environmental Internship (with SES approval)3
ENVS 398 Special Topics (with SES approval) 3ENVS 399Directed Readings (with SES approval)1-3
GLST 305 Globalization and Environmental Sustainability 3MGMT 201Managing People and Organizations3
PLSC 354 Global Environmental Politics 3
1For students in the Food Systems and Sustainable
Agriculture Concentration only.
Environmental Science Electives
Code Title Hours
Environmental Science ElectivesANTH 104The Human Ecological Footprint3
ANTH 303 People and Conservation 3ENVS 204Gender, Health & Environment 33
ENVS 207 Plants and Civilization 43ENVS 215 /
BIOL 215Ornithology 13
ENVS 218 Biodiversity & Biogeography 33ENVS 223Soil Ecology 33
ENVS 224 Climate & Climate Change 3ENVS 226Science & Conservation of Freshwater Ecosystems3
ENVS 267 Bird Conservation and Ecology 53ENVS 273Energy and the Environment 53
ENVS 278 Hydrology 63ENVS 283Environmental Sustainability3
ENVS 298 Special Topics (with SES approval) 1-12ENVS 300Introduction to Public Health 73
ENVS 301 Environmental Health 73ENVS 303Introduction to Epidemiology 73
ENVS 320 Conservation Biology 73ENVS 322Invasive Species3
ENVS 323 Environmental Microbiology 33

--- Page 1131 ---
1162  Environmental Science/Public Policy (BS/MPP)ENVS 324Climate Science3
ENVS 325 Sustainable Agriculture 43ENVS 326Agroecosystems3
ENVS 327 Food Systems Analysis 3ENVS 330Restoration Ecology 33
ENVS 338 Climate Change and Human Health 63ENVS 340Natural History of Belize 53
ENVS 345 Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
Ecosystems 53ENVS 350ASolutions to Environmental Problems: Water3
ENVS 350C Solutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
Action3ENVS 350FSolutions to Environmental Problems: Food
Systems3
ENVS 367 Mammalogy 3ENVS 369Field Ornithology 53
ENVS 380 Introduction to Geographic Information Systems 3ENVS 381Advanced GIS Applications3
ENVS 382 Remote Sensing 3ENVS 383Human Dimensions of Conservation 73
ENVS 384 Conservation Economics 23ENVS 385Introduction to Global Health3
ENVS 386 Python Programming for GIS 3ENVS 387Principles of Ecotoxicology3
ENVS 389 Ecological Risk Assessment 3ENVS 391Environmental Research (with SES approval)1-3
ENVS 395 Environmental Internship (with SES approval) 3ENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)3
ENVS 399 Directed Readings (with SES approval) 1-3BIOL, CHEM, PHYS 300-level courses (with SES approval)1For students with the Food and Sustainable Agriculture Concentration,
the Environmental Health Concentration, or without a Concentration.
2For students in the Environmental Health Concentration only.
3For students with the Conservation and Restoration Ecology
Concentration or without a Concentration.
4For students in the Food Systems and Sustainable
Agriculture Concentration only.
5For students with the Conservation and Restoration Ecology
Concentration, the the Environmental Health Concentration, or without
a Concentration.
6For students with the Food Systems and Sustainable Agriculture
Concentration or without a Concentration.
7For students without a Concentration only.
Environmental Health and Society Elective (Environmental Health
only)
Code Title Hours
COMM 101 Public Speaking & Critical Thinking 3COMM 260Environmental Journalism3
COMM 277 Organizational Communication 3COMM 306Environmental Advocacy3
COMM 379 Digital Sustainability 3ECON 328Environmental Economics3
ENGL 288 Nature in Literature 3ENVS 204Gender, Health & Environment3
ENVS 230 Feeding the Planet: Global Perspectives on
Sustainability, Culture and Food3ENVS 279Climate and History3
ENVS 284 Environmental Justice 3ENVS 285Eco-spirituality3
ENVS 297 North American Environmental History 3ENVS 298Special Topics (with SES approval)1-12
ENVS 310 Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy 3ENVS 311Natural Resources and Land Use Law & Policy3
ENVS 312 Water Law & Policy 3ENVS 313Energy Law & Policy3
ENVS 335 Ecological Economics 3ENVS 338Climate Change and Human Health3
ENVS 340 Natural History of Belize 3ENVS 350ASolutions to Environmental Problems: Water3
ENVS 350C Solutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
Action3ENVS 350FSolutions to Environmental Problems: Food
Systems3
ENVS 363 Sustainable Business Management 3ENVS 383Human Dimensions of Conservation3
ENVS 389 Ecological Risk Assessment 3ENVS 391Environmental Research (with SES approval)1-3
ENVS 395 Environmental Internship (with SES approval) 3ENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)3
ENVS 399 Directed Readings (with SES approval) 1-3MGMT 201Managing People and Organizations3
PHIL 287 Environmental Ethics 3PLSC 354Global Environmental Politics3
PSYC 277 Environmental Psychology 3SOCL 226Science, Technology, & Society3
SOCL 252 Global Inequalities 3SOCL 272Environmental Sociology3
SOCL 276 The Sociology and Politics of Food 3SOCL 278Global Health3
THEO 204 Religious Ethics and the Ecological Crisis 3THEO 344Theology and Ecology3
MPP Electives
Students are required to take 12 hours of electives. Electives can be
drawn from departments across the university, including environmental
studies and public health. These electives are where students can focus
on their preferred ﬁeld of policy. The following are some examples of
optional courses:
Code Title Hours
EnvironmentENVS 410Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy3
ENVS 411 Natural Resources and Land Use Law & Policy 3ENVS 412Water Law & Policy3
ENVS 413 Energy Law & Policy 3ENVS 480Introduction to Geographic Information Systems3
ENVS 481 Advanced GIS Applications 3

--- Page 1132 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1163Public HealthMPBH 400 Determinants of Population Health 3MPBH 401Environmental Health3
MPBH 407 Public Health Policy: Concepts and Practice 3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year One
Fall
BIOL 101 General Biology I 3BIOL 111General Biology I Lab1
CHEM 160 Chemical Structure and Properties 3CHEM 161Chemical Structure and Properties
Laboratory1ENVS 137Foundations of Environmental Science I3 Hours11
Spring
BIOL 102 General Biology II 3BIOL 112General Biology II Lab1
CHEM 180 Chemical Reactivity I 3CHEM 181Chemical Reactivity I Lab1
ENVS 200 Environmental Careers and Professional
Skills1ENVS 203Environmental Statistics3 Hours12
Year Two
FallENVS 280Principles of Ecology3
ENVS 286S Principles of Ecology Lab 1Environmental Science Elective3 Hours7
SpringJustice & Ethics Choice3Environmental Science Elective3 Hours6
Year Three
Fall
ENVS 274 Chemistry of the Natural Environment 3ENVS 275Chemistry of the Environment Lab1
Environmental Science 300 Level Elective 3Environmental Science 300 Level Elective3Society, Ethics, & Justice Elective3 Hours13
Spring
ENVS 335 
or ECON 328Ecological Economics 
or Environmental Economics3PLSC 392Environmental Politics3Policy, Economics, & Resource Management Elective 3300 Level Environmental Science Elective3 Hours12
Year Four
FallEngaged Learning Choice3
MPP 400 
or MPP 401 
or MPP 404Policy Design and Analysis 
or Analytical Tools in Public Policy 
or Public Policy Process3ENVS 410 
or ENVS 411 
or ENVS 480Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy 
or Natural Resources and Land Use Law
& Policy 
or Introduction to Geographic
Information Systems3 Hours9
SpringCapstone Choice3
MPP 403 
or MPP 404Public Budget and Finance 
or Public Policy Process3MPP 413 
or ENVS 412 
or ENVS 413 
or ENVS 481Intergovernmental Relations 
or Water Law & Policy 
or Energy Law & Policy 
or Advanced GIS Applications3 Hours9
Year Five
FallMPP 405Statistical Methods & Analysis for Public
Policy I3
MPP 501 Public Policy Internship 3MPP 502Professional Development Skills1
MPP Elective 3MPP Elective3 Hours13
SpringMPP 406Statistical Methods & Analysis Public
Policy II3
MPP 500 Public Policy Evaluation 3MPP Elective3MPP Elective3 Hours12 Total Hours104
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.

--- Page 1133 ---
1164  Environmental Science/Public Policy (BS/MPP)
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.

--- Page 1134 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1165
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of the joint degree program, students will be able to:
•Examine the causes and consequences of environmental change at
local to global scales. [BS - no concentration]
•Apply scientiﬁc knowledge to evaluate policy, management, and other
solutions that aim to enhance environmental sustainability.  [BS - no
concentration]
•Create an action plan for leading a professional and personal life that
promotes environmental sustainability. [BS - no concentration]
•Articulate the foundational principles of natural and social sciences
and humanities essential to solving environmental problems. [BS - no
concentration and all concentrations]
•Critically evaluate the accuracy and credibility of information
relating to environmental topics. [BS - no concentration and all
concentrations]
•Design policy interventions and apply criteria to assess the best
option in each speciﬁc case. [MPP]
•Understand a government budget and evaluate it from different
stakeholder positions. [MPP]
•Understand the political process at the federal, state and local
government levels. [MPP]
•Develop political messaging to advocate for policies and to build a
political coalition of support for a program. [MPP]
•Apply appropriate statistical procedures used in public policy
research and practice. [MPP]
•Design, conduct and critique program evaluations. [MPP]
•Experience working in the public policy arena in government agency,
non-proﬁt, research, or private sector organization. [MPP]
•Employ knowledge and skills to design and implement solutions that
contribute to a just and sustainable world. [BS - no concentration and
all concentrations]•Exemplify the values of environmental and social justice through
actions to care for our common home and one another. [BS - no
concentration and all concentrations]
•Explain fundamental connections among ecological processes that
are the basis of unity and diversity of life. [BS - Conservation and
Restoration Ecology concentration]
•Analyze ecological and societal data to apply best management
practices in conservation and restoration ecology. [BS - Conservation
and Restoration Ecology concentration]
•Synthesize the social, historical, economic, political, and biological
causes, consequences, and solutions to our current biodiversity
crisis. [BS - Conservation and Restoration Ecology concentration]
•Develop and express a personal philosophy that values protecting
and restoring our global bicultural diversity and vital ecosystems. [BS
- Conservation and Restoration Ecology concentration]
•Examine the sources of environmental degradation and their impacts
on health. [BS - Environmental Health concentration]
•Apply the tools of public health to characterize the impacts on
community health using a planetary health perspective. [BS -
Environmental Health concentration]
•Integrate environmental regulatory policies to evaluate the health
impacts at local and global scales. [BS - Environmental Health
concentration]
•Incorporate critical public health and environmental health justice
perspectives into environmental and human dimensions. [BS -
Environmental Health concentration]
•Explain the components of food systems and their complex
interactions across spatial and temporal scales. [BS - Food Systems
and Sustainable Agriculture concentration]
•Articulate the physical, psychological, cultural, and spiritual
signiﬁcance of food to individual and community wellbeing. [BS -
Food Systems and Sustainable Agriculture concentration]
•Using multiple methods of analysis, evaluate the environmental and
equity impacts of different food system practices to reveal points
of leverage for social-ecological change. [BS - Food Systems and
Sustainable Agriculture concentration]
•Engage knowledge, skills, and values through experiences that
advance sustainability, resilience, and justice within food systems.
[BS - Food Systems and Sustainable Agriculture concentration]
SES Shared Learning Outcomes
All SES majors share the following Program Learning Objectives, in
addition to their unique major-speciﬁc Program Learning Objectives:
1. Articulate the foundational principles of natural and social sciences
and humanities essential to solving environmental problems.
2. Critically evaluate the accuracy and credibility of information relating to
environmental topics.
3. Employ knowledge and skills to design and implement solutions that
contribute to a just and sustainable world.
4. Exemplify the values of environmental and social justice through
actions to care for our common home and one another.

--- Page 1135 ---
1166  Environmental Studies/Business (BA/MBA)
Environmental Studies/Business (BA/
MBA)
Solving the world’s environmental crises depends on how well tomorrow's
business leaders adopt strategies that allow for sustainability to be a
leading driver in how they do business.
Loyola’s ﬁve-year Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in
environmental studies and business administration introduces students
to the fundamental issues involved in global, environmental and ethical
business practices.
The academic content and direct, hands-on experiences within the
bachelors degrees will provide a base from which to develop skills
and knowledge in the MBA program. The program equips graduates to
promote and implement sustainable business practices.
Related Programs
Major
•Environmental Studies (BA)  (p. 946)
Combined
•Advertising Public Relations/Environmental Science and
Sustainability (BA/MS)  (p. 963)
•Environmental Science/Business (BS/MBA)  (p. 1127 )
Curriculum
Students interested in pursuing one of the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs will complete all normal requirements for a BA in
environmental studies.
Students may take two graduate courses that count toward the MBA
during their senior year in lieu of environmental science/studies electives.
Students complete the degree requirements for a BA in environmental
studies after four years and complete the MBA at the end of the ﬁfth year.
Code Title Hours
BA RequirementsCore CurriculumENVS 137 Foundations of Environmental Science I 3ENVS 237Foundations of Environmental Chemistry3
ENVS 238 Foundations of Environmental Science Lab 1ENVS 200Environmental Careers and Professional Skills1
ENVS 203 Environmental Statistics 3ENVS 280Principles of Ecology3
ENVS 286 Principles of Ecology Lab 1PLSC 392Environmental Politics3
Justice and Ethics ChoiceSelect one of the following:3
ENVS 284 Environmental JusticePHIL 287Environmental EthicsTHEO 204 Religious Ethics and the Ecological CrisisEconomics ChoiceSelect one of the following: 3ENVS 335Ecological EconomicsECON 328 Environmental EconomicsEngaged Learning ChoiceSelect one of the following: 3ENVS 226Science & Conservation of Freshwater EcosystemsENVS 267 Bird Conservation and EcologyENVS 273Energy and the EnvironmentENVS 283 Environmental SustainabilityENVS 340Natural History of BelizeENVS 345 Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
EcosystemsENVS 350ASolutions to Environmental Problems: WaterENVS 350B Solutions to Environmental Problems: BiogasENVS 350CSolutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
ActionENVS 350F Solutions to Environmental Problems: Food
SystemsENVS 391Environmental ResearchENVS 395 Environmental InternshipCapstone ChoiceSelect one of the following: 3ENVS 390Integrative SeminarENVS 391C Independent Environmental Research (Capstone)ENVS 395CEnvironmental Internship (Capstone)Electives  (p. 1167 ) 21See designated elective categories belowMBA Requirements  1Prerequisite Knowledge  2ISSCM 400 Quantitative Methods 3ISSCM 402NQuantitative Methods II - Statistics Primer 4Introductory CoursesACCT 400Financial Accounting for Business Decisions 53
ECON 420 Managerial Economics 63MARK 460Marketing Management 53
FINC 450 Financial Management 73SCMG 480Intro to Operations Management3
Next Generation MBA CoreMARK 425NBusiness Communication1.5
MGMT 426N Leadership Development 1.5MARK 470NResearch, Insights and Storytelling3
ISSCM 596N Data Driven Decision Making 3ETHC 441NBusiness Ethics3
MGMT 430N Strategy and Leadership 3HRER 417NManaging and Motivating in the Workplace3
MGMT 431N Business Consulting Course 3Three (3) MBA Electives9Through electives, you can shape your education for your personal
career path and interests. Electives can be concentrated in a
particular area of study (e.g., ﬁnance, marketing, human resources
management, etc.) or across several areas of interest.Total Hours96
1The Quinlan School of Business Graduate Program uses a quarter
system rather than a semester system.   The MBA program is an 16
course program (48 hours).

--- Page 1136 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1167
2ISSCM 400 Quantitative Methods  and ISSCM 402N Quantitative
Methods II - Statistics Primer  can be taken in the ﬁrst quarter of MBA
degree if necessary.
3Can be waived with grade of B or above in MATH 131 Applied Calculus I
or MATH 161 Calculus I .
4Can be waived with grade of B or above in STAT 103 Fundamentals of
Statistics  or ENVS 203 Environmental Statistics .
5Can be taken as a free elective in senior year.
6Prerequisite of ISSCM 400 Quantitative Methods  or the equivalent
can be waived with grade of B or above in  ECON 201 Principles of
Microeconomics  & ECON 202 Principles of Macroeconomics
7Prerequisite of ACCT 400 Financial Accounting for Business Decisions
or the equivalent.
BA Electives
Code Title Hours
Society, Ethics, and JusticeSelect two of the following:6
COMM 260 Environmental JournalismENVS 204Gender, Health & EnvironmentENVS 279 Climate and HistoryENVS 284Environmental JusticeENVS 297 North American Environmental HistoryENVS 298Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 310 Introduction to Environmental Law & PolicyENVS 311Natural Resources and Land Use Law & PolicyENVS 312 Water Law & PolicyENVS 313Energy Law & PolicyENVS 338 Climate Change and Human HealthENVS 350ASolutions to Environmental Problems: WaterENVS 350B Solutions to Environmental Problems: BiogasENVS 350CSolutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
ActionENVS 350F Solutions to Environmental Problems: Food
SystemsENVS 383Human Dimensions of ConservationENVS 391 Environmental ResearchENVS 395Environmental InternshipENVS 398 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399Directed ReadingsCOMM 101 Public Speaking & Critical ThinkingCOMM 277Organizational CommunicationCOMM 306 Environmental AdvocacyCOMM 322Guerilla MediaENGL 288 Nature in LiteraturePHIL 287Environmental EthicsPSYC 277 Environmental PsychologySOCL 226Science, Technology, & SocietySOCL 252 Global InequalitiesSOCL 272Environmental SociologySOCL 276 The Sociology and Politics of FoodSOCL 278Global HealthTHEO 204 Religious Ethics and the Ecological CrisisTHEO 344Theology and EcologyPolicy, Economics, and Resource ManagementSelect one of the following:3
ENVS 298 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 300Introduction to Public HealthENVS 310 Introduction to Environmental Law & PolicyENVS 311Natural Resources and Land Use Law & PolicyENVS 312 Water Law & PolicyENVS 313Energy Law & PolicyENVS 332ENVS 333Introduction to the Circular EconomyENVS 335 Ecological EconomicsENVS 336Design for Circular & Sustainable BusinessENVS 338 Climate Change and Human HealthENVS 351Introduction to Sustainability Concepts & ImpactsENVS 363 Sustainable Business ManagementENVS 364ENVS 383 Human Dimensions of ConservationENVS 384Conservation EconomicsENVS 389 Ecological Risk AssessmentENVS 391Environmental ResearchENVS 395 Environmental InternshipENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399 Directed ReadingsECON 328Environmental EconomicsGLST 305 Globalization and Environmental SustainabilityMGMT 201Managing People and OrganizationsPLSC 354 Global Environmental PoliticsMethods and AnalysisSelect one of the following: 3COMM 260Environmental JournalismENVS 298 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 327Food Systems AnalysisENVS 352 Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IENVS 353Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IIENVS 354 Sustainability Plan Development & ReportingENVS 380Introduction to Geographic Information SystemsENVS 381 Advanced GIS ApplicationsENVS 382Remote SensingENVS 384 Conservation EconomicsENVS 388ENVS 389 Ecological Risk AssessmentENVS 391Environmental ResearchENVS 395 Environmental InternshipENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399 Directed ReadingsANTH 317Ethnographic MethodsBIOL 335 Intro to BiostatisticsCOMM 231Conflict Management and CommunicationCOMM 234 Interviewing for CommunicationCOMM 277Organizational CommunicationCOMM 363 Research Methods in Advertising/Public RelationsMARK 320Marketing for Environmental Sustainability

--- Page 1137 ---
1168  Environmental Studies/Business (BA/MBA)
SOCL 206 Principles of Social ResearchSOCL 301Statistics for Social ResearchSOCL 302 Qualitative ResearchSTAT 203Introduction to Probability & StatisticsSTAT 303 SAS Programming & Applied StatisticsEnvironmental ElectivesChoose three, at least one of which must be from List A and at least
one of which must be at the 300 level):9List AENVS 204 Gender, Health & EnvironmentENVS 207Plants and CivilizationENVS 218 Biodiversity & BiogeographyENVS 223Soil EcologyENVS 224 Climate & Climate ChangeENVS 226Science & Conservation of Freshwater EcosystemsENVS 227R Ecology of the Mediterranean SeaENVS 267Bird Conservation and EcologyENVS 273 Energy and the EnvironmentENVS 274Chemistry of the Natural EnvironmentENVS 278 HydrologyENVS 283Environmental SustainabilityENVS 298 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 300Introduction to Public HealthENVS 301 Environmental HealthENVS 303Introduction to EpidemiologyENVS 319ENVS 320Conservation BiologyENVS 322 Invasive SpeciesENVS 325Sustainable AgricultureENVS 326 AgroecosystemsENVS 327Food Systems AnalysisENVS 330 Restoration EcologyENVS 338Climate Change and Human HealthENVS 340 Natural History of BelizeENVS 345Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
EcosystemsENVS 350A Solutions to Environmental Problems: WaterENVS 350BSolutions to Environmental Problems: BiogasENVS 350C Solutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
ActionENVS 350FSolutions to Environmental Problems: Food
SystemsENVS 352 Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IENVS 353Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IIENVS 369 Field OrnithologyENVS 380Introduction to Geographic Information SystemsENVS 381 Advanced GIS ApplicationsENVS 382Remote SensingENVS 385 Introduction to Global HealthENVS 387Principles of EcotoxicologyENVS 388ENVS 389Ecological Risk AssessmentENVS 391 Environmental ResearchENVS 395Environmental InternshipENVS 398 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399Directed ReadingsANTH 104 The Human Ecological FootprintANTH 303People and ConservationList BCOMM 260Environmental JournalismENVS 279 Climate and HistoryENVS 297North American Environmental HistoryENVS 298 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 310Introduction to Environmental Law & PolicyENVS 311 Natural Resources and Land Use Law & PolicyENVS 312Water Law & PolicyENVS 313 Energy Law & PolicyENVS 332ENVS 333 Introduction to the Circular EconomyENVS 335Ecological EconomicsENVS 336 Design for Circular & Sustainable BusinessENVS 354Sustainability Plan Development & ReportingENVS 363 Sustainable Business ManagementENVS 364ENVS 383 Human Dimensions of ConservationENVS 384Conservation EconomicsENVS 388ENVS 391Environmental ResearchENVS 395 Environmental InternshipENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399 Directed ReadingsANTH 317Ethnographic MethodsCOMM 231 Conflict Management and CommunicationCOMM 234Interviewing for CommunicationCOMM 277 Organizational CommunicationCOMM 363Research Methods in Advertising/Public RelationsMARK 320 Marketing for Environmental SustainabilitySOCL 206Principles of Social ResearchSOCL 302 Qualitative ResearchBIOL, CHEM, PHYS 300-level courses (with SES approval)Total Hours21
Suggested Sequence of Courses
Course Title Hours
Year One
FallENVS 137Foundations of Environmental Science I3 Hours3
Spring
ENVS 203 Environmental Statistics 3ENVS 237Foundations of Environmental Chemistry3
ENVS 238 Foundations of Environmental Science Lab 1Justice & Ethics Choice3 Hours10

--- Page 1138 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1169
Year Two
FallECON 201Principles of Microeconomics3
ENVS 200 Environmental Careers and Professional
Skills1ENVS 280Principles of Ecology3ENVS 286Principles of Ecology Lab1 Hours8
Spring
ECON 202 Principles of Macroeconomics 3ENVS 335 
or ECON 328Ecological Economics 
or Environmental Economics3Environmental Science Elective List A3 Hours9
Year Three
Fall
MATH 131 
or MATH 161Applied Calculus I 
or Calculus I3Engaged Learning Choice3Society, Ethics, & Justice Elective3 Hours9
Spring
PLSC 392 Environmental Politics 3Environmental Science Elective List A or B3300 Level Environmental Science Elective3 Hours9
Year Four
Fall
Society, Ethics, & Justice Elective 3Policy, Economics, & Resource Management Elective3ACCT 400 
or MARK 460 
or SCMG 480Financial Accounting for Business
Decisions 
or Marketing Management 
or Intro to Operations Management3 Hours9
Spring
Capstone Choice 3Methods & Analysis Elective3ACCT 400 
or MARK 460 
or SCMG 480Financial Accounting for Business
Decisions 
or Marketing Management 
or Intro to Operations Management3 Hours9 Total Hours66
Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's Program Tip
In addition to completing the normal requirements for the environmental
studies, students planning to enter the MBA program should do the
following:
A GPA of 3.20 or higher is required for admission to this program.
First-year/sophomore years : Arrange undergraduate course scheduling to
preserve six hours of free electives until senior year.During their ﬁrst two years, students should take  ECON 201 Principles of
Microeconomics  and  ECON 202 Principles of Macroeconomics , which
will satisfy the social science requirement of the Core Curriculum and
allow the student to waive out of  ECON 420 Managerial Economics .
Take  MATH 131 Applied Calculus I  or MATH 161 Calculus I  to waive out
of ISSCM 400 Quantitative Methods .
Junior year (2nd semester) : Attend an MBA accelerated Bachelor's /
Master's information session.
Senior year : Apply to the program by October 15 if you complete your
Bachelor's degree in May.  Apply to the program by April 15 if you are
completing your Bachelors degree in December.  After admission, meet
with your MBA advisor for planning your graduate business course
schedule.
Take  ACCT 400 Financial Accounting for Business
Decisions  and  MARK 460 Marketing Management , which will count as
free electives toward the BA degree. Complete all requirements for the
BA.
Fifth year : During the ﬁfth year, students who have followed the above
directions will have a total of 14 (or less) MBA courses remaining.
These courses can be completed full-time at the rate of three or four per
quarter (including the summer quarter). Students also have the option
to complete the MBA program on a part-time basis (usually one or two
courses per quarter).
Students should contact the Quinlan School of Business for speciﬁc MBA
requirements and an academic calendar.
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate

--- Page 1139 ---
1170  Environmental Studies/Business (BA/MBA)
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for theAccelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request

--- Page 1140 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1171
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•Demonstrate an understanding of scientiﬁc, social, and humanistic
approaches to environmental questions. [BA]
•Appraise the interactions and synergies between the natural world,
social systems, and human cultures. [BA]
•Advance environmental and social sustainability that integrates
scientiﬁc research, social analysis, and cultural awareness. [BA]
•Engaged actions of self-awareness and social solidarity that reflect a
commitment to integral ecology. [BA]
•Integrative Business Knowledge: Graduates will be proﬁcient
in integrating the techniques, processes, and procedures of the
fundamental business disciplines (accounting, economics, ﬁnance,
marketing, management, human resource management, operations
management, and information technology). They will be able to apply
theory, skills, and knowledge from these disciplines to business
practice. [MBA]
•Critical Decision Making: Graduates will demonstrate their capacity
for critical analysis in processing, interpreting, and managing the
quantitative and qualitative information necessary for effective
managerial decision making. [MBA]
•Ethics and Responsible Leadership: Graduates will understand how
to be a leader in business who exhibits personal integrity, ethical
awareness, and an ability to apply ethical principles to business
practice. [MBA]
•Global Perspective and Awareness of Diversity: Graduates will have
a global perspective by recognizing international business issues
and appreciating diversity, including culture, race, religion, and
gender. [MBA]
•Communication: Graduates will be able to communicate effectively,
orally. Graduates will be able to communicate effectively, in
writing. [MBA]
SES Shared Learning Outcomes
All SES majors share the following Program Learning Objectives, in
addition to their unique major-speciﬁc Program Learning Objectives:
1. Articulate the foundational principles of natural and social sciences
and humanities essential to solving environmental problems.
2. Critically evaluate the accuracy and credibility of information relating to
environmental topics.
3. Employ knowledge and skills to design and implement solutions that
contribute to a just and sustainable world.
4. Exemplify the values of environmental and social justice through
actions to care for our common home and one another.
Environmental Studies/Digital Media
and Storytelling (BA/MC)
The new Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's (ABM) program allows SES
students to earn their undergraduate degree in their declared major, whilealso earning a master’s degree from the SOC in either the Digital Media
and Storytelling or Global Strategic Communication graduate programs.
The program trains environmental scientists to be better communicators.
While environmental scientists are trained to investigate, analyze data,
and interpret results, they are not taught how to communicate their
results and conclusions in ways that are readily accessible to the general
public, CEOs, or legislators. For students in the School of Environmental
Sustainability, the ABM program will help them with writing, public
speaking, conference presentations, television and radio interviews, and
social media messaging.
Related Programs
Combined
•Environmental Policy/Digital Media and Storytelling (BA/MC)
(p. 1108 )
•Environmental Science/Digital Media and Storytelling (BS/MC)
(p. 1133 )
Curriculum
Environmental Studies BA students complete coursework spanning a
variety of disciplines pertinent to the understanding of environmental
issues.
Code Title Hours
BA RequirementsCore CurriculumENVS 137 Foundations of Environmental Science I 3ENVS 237Foundations of Environmental Chemistry3
ENVS 238 Foundations of Environmental Science Lab 1ENVS 200Environmental Careers and Professional Skills1
ENVS 203 Environmental Statistics 3ENVS 280Principles of Ecology3
ENVS 286 Principles of Ecology Lab 1PLSC 392Environmental Politics3
Justice and Ethics ChoiceSelect one of the following:3
ENVS 284 Environmental JusticePHIL 287Environmental EthicsTHEO 204 Religious Ethics and the Ecological CrisisEconomics ChoiceSelect one of the following: 3ENVS 335Ecological EconomicsECON 328 Environmental EconomicsEngaged Learning ChoiceSelect one of the following: 3ENVS 226Science & Conservation of Freshwater EcosystemsENVS 267 Bird Conservation and EcologyENVS 273Energy and the EnvironmentENVS 283 Environmental SustainabilityENVS 340Natural History of BelizeENVS 345 Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
EcosystemsENVS 350ASolutions to Environmental Problems: WaterENVS 350B Solutions to Environmental Problems: Biogas

--- Page 1141 ---
1172  Environmental Studies/Digital Media and Storytelling (BA/MC)ENVS 350CSolutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
ActionENVS 350F Solutions to Environmental Problems: Food
SystemsENVS 391Environmental ResearchENVS 395 Environmental InternshipCapstone ChoiceSelect one of the following: 3ENVS 390Integrative SeminarENVS 391C Independent Environmental Research (Capstone)ENVS 395CEnvironmental Internship (Capstone)Electives  (p. 1172 ) 21See designated elective categories belowMC RequirementsCOMM 400Designing for Digital Environments3
COMM 405 Story Development and Production 3COMM 410Media Law for Inclusive Digital Storytelling3
COMM 415 Data-Powered Digital Storytelling 3COMM 420Digital Production: Storytelling with Impact3
COMM 425 Digital Marketing and Analytics 3COMM 4302D Design for Print and the Web3
COMM 450 Capstone II 3Elective Courses from List of Electives for DMST  (p. 1174 )12Total Hours87
BA Electives
Code Title Hours
Society, Ethics, and JusticeSelect two of the following:6
COMM 260 Environmental JournalismENVS 204Gender, Health & EnvironmentENVS 279 Climate and HistoryENVS 284Environmental JusticeENVS 297 North American Environmental HistoryENVS 298Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 310 Introduction to Environmental Law & PolicyENVS 311Natural Resources and Land Use Law & PolicyENVS 312 Water Law & PolicyENVS 313Energy Law & PolicyENVS 338 Climate Change and Human HealthENVS 350ASolutions to Environmental Problems: WaterENVS 350B Solutions to Environmental Problems: BiogasENVS 350CSolutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
ActionENVS 350F Solutions to Environmental Problems: Food
SystemsENVS 383Human Dimensions of ConservationENVS 391 Environmental ResearchENVS 395Environmental InternshipENVS 398 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399Directed ReadingsCOMM 101 Public Speaking & Critical ThinkingCOMM 277Organizational CommunicationCOMM 306 Environmental AdvocacyCOMM 322Guerilla MediaENGL 288 Nature in LiteraturePHIL 287Environmental EthicsPSYC 277 Environmental PsychologySOCL 226Science, Technology, & SocietySOCL 252 Global InequalitiesSOCL 272Environmental SociologySOCL 276 The Sociology and Politics of FoodSOCL 278Global HealthTHEO 204 Religious Ethics and the Ecological CrisisTHEO 344Theology and EcologyPolicy, Economics, and Resource ManagementSelect one of the following:3
ENVS 298 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 300Introduction to Public HealthENVS 310 Introduction to Environmental Law & PolicyENVS 311Natural Resources and Land Use Law & PolicyENVS 312 Water Law & PolicyENVS 313Energy Law & PolicyENVS 332ENVS 333Introduction to the Circular EconomyENVS 335 Ecological EconomicsENVS 336Design for Circular & Sustainable BusinessENVS 338 Climate Change and Human HealthENVS 351Introduction to Sustainability Concepts & ImpactsENVS 363 Sustainable Business ManagementENVS 364ENVS 383 Human Dimensions of ConservationENVS 384Conservation EconomicsENVS 389 Ecological Risk AssessmentENVS 391Environmental ResearchENVS 395 Environmental InternshipENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399 Directed ReadingsECON 328Environmental EconomicsGLST 305 Globalization and Environmental SustainabilityMGMT 201Managing People and OrganizationsPLSC 354 Global Environmental PoliticsMethods and AnalysisSelect one of the following: 3COMM 260Environmental JournalismENVS 298 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 327Food Systems AnalysisENVS 352 Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IENVS 353Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IIENVS 354 Sustainability Plan Development & ReportingENVS 380Introduction to Geographic Information SystemsENVS 381 Advanced GIS ApplicationsENVS 382Remote SensingENVS 384 Conservation EconomicsENVS 388

--- Page 1142 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1173
ENVS 389 Ecological Risk AssessmentENVS 391Environmental ResearchENVS 395 Environmental InternshipENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399 Directed ReadingsANTH 317Ethnographic MethodsBIOL 335 Intro to BiostatisticsCOMM 231Conflict Management and CommunicationCOMM 234 Interviewing for CommunicationCOMM 277Organizational CommunicationCOMM 363 Research Methods in Advertising/Public RelationsMARK 320Marketing for Environmental SustainabilitySOCL 206 Principles of Social ResearchSOCL 301Statistics for Social ResearchSOCL 302 Qualitative ResearchSTAT 203Introduction to Probability & StatisticsSTAT 303 SAS Programming & Applied StatisticsEnvironmental ElectivesChoose three, at least one of which must be from List A and at least
one of which must be at the 300 level):9List AENVS 204 Gender, Health & EnvironmentENVS 207Plants and CivilizationENVS 218 Biodiversity & BiogeographyENVS 223Soil EcologyENVS 224 Climate & Climate ChangeENVS 226Science & Conservation of Freshwater EcosystemsENVS 227R Ecology of the Mediterranean SeaENVS 267Bird Conservation and EcologyENVS 273 Energy and the EnvironmentENVS 274Chemistry of the Natural EnvironmentENVS 278 HydrologyENVS 283Environmental SustainabilityENVS 298 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 300Introduction to Public HealthENVS 301 Environmental HealthENVS 303Introduction to EpidemiologyENVS 319ENVS 320Conservation BiologyENVS 322 Invasive SpeciesENVS 325Sustainable AgricultureENVS 326 AgroecosystemsENVS 327Food Systems AnalysisENVS 330 Restoration EcologyENVS 338Climate Change and Human HealthENVS 340 Natural History of BelizeENVS 345Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
EcosystemsENVS 350A Solutions to Environmental Problems: WaterENVS 350BSolutions to Environmental Problems: BiogasENVS 350C Solutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
ActionENVS 350FSolutions to Environmental Problems: Food
SystemsENVS 352 Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IENVS 353Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IIENVS 369 Field OrnithologyENVS 380Introduction to Geographic Information SystemsENVS 381 Advanced GIS ApplicationsENVS 382Remote SensingENVS 385 Introduction to Global HealthENVS 387Principles of EcotoxicologyENVS 388ENVS 389Ecological Risk AssessmentENVS 391 Environmental ResearchENVS 395Environmental InternshipENVS 398 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399Directed ReadingsANTH 104 The Human Ecological FootprintANTH 303People and ConservationList BCOMM 260Environmental JournalismENVS 279 Climate and HistoryENVS 297North American Environmental HistoryENVS 298 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 310Introduction to Environmental Law & PolicyENVS 311 Natural Resources and Land Use Law & PolicyENVS 312Water Law & PolicyENVS 313 Energy Law & PolicyENVS 332ENVS 333 Introduction to the Circular EconomyENVS 335Ecological EconomicsENVS 336 Design for Circular & Sustainable BusinessENVS 354Sustainability Plan Development & ReportingENVS 363 Sustainable Business ManagementENVS 364ENVS 383 Human Dimensions of ConservationENVS 384Conservation EconomicsENVS 388ENVS 391Environmental ResearchENVS 395 Environmental InternshipENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399 Directed ReadingsANTH 317Ethnographic MethodsCOMM 231 Conflict Management and CommunicationCOMM 234Interviewing for CommunicationCOMM 277 Organizational CommunicationCOMM 363Research Methods in Advertising/Public RelationsMARK 320 Marketing for Environmental SustainabilitySOCL 206Principles of Social ResearchSOCL 302 Qualitative ResearchBIOL, CHEM, PHYS 300-level courses (with SES approval)Total Hours21

--- Page 1143 ---
1174  Environmental Studies/Digital Media and Storytelling (BA/MC)
Electives for Digital Media and Storytelling
Code Title Hours
Advertising/Public RelationsCOMM 422Global and Multicultural Audiences and
Stakeholders3
COMM 432 Public Interest Communication 3COMM 433Corporate Communication3
COMM 437 Advertising/PR Multimedia Commercial
Production3COMM 463Intermediate Advertising Design3
COMM 464 Mobile Advertising 3Film and ProductionCOMM 439 Video Documentary 3COMM 455Animation3
COMM 459 Advanced Post Production 3COMM 494Film & Digital Media Internship3
Multimedia JournalismCOMM 458Newscasting and Producing3
COMM 473 Digital Storytelling Abroad 3COMM 492Multimedia Journalism Internship3
OtherCOMM 4163
COMM 479 Digital Sustainability 3COMM 498Directed Study for Graduate Students1-3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year One
FallENVS 137Foundations of Environmental Science I3 Hours3
Spring
ENVS 203 Environmental Statistics 3ENVS 237Foundations of Environmental Chemistry3
ENVS 238 Foundations of Environmental Science Lab 1Justice & Ethics Choice3 Hours10
Year Two
FallENVS 200Environmental Careers and Professional
Skills1
ENVS 280 Principles of Ecology 3ENVS 286Principles of Ecology Lab1 Hours5
SpringENVS 335 
or ECON 328Ecological Economics 
or Environmental Economics3Environmental Science Elective List A3 Hours6
Year Three
FallEngaged Learning Choice3 Hours3
Spring
PLSC 392 Environmental Politics 3300 Level Environmental Science Elective3 Hours6
Year Four
FallPolicy, Economics, & Resource Management Elective3
Society, Ethics, & Justice Elective 3COMM 405Story Development and Production3
COMM 420 Digital Production: Storytelling with Impact 3COMM 306 
or COMM 379Environmental Advocacy 
or Digital Sustainability3 Hours15
SpringCapstone Choice3
Methods & Analysis Elective 3COMM 425Digital Marketing and Analytics3
COMM 430 2D Design for Print and the Web 3COMM 306 
or COMM 379Environmental Advocacy 
or Digital Sustainability3 Hours15
Year Five
FallCOMM 400Designing for Digital Environments3
COMM 410 Media Law for Inclusive Digital Storytelling 3DMST Elective3DMST Elective3 Hours12
Spring
COMM 415 Data-Powered Digital Storytelling 3COMM 450Capstone II3
DMST Elective 3DMST Elective3 Hours12 Total Hours87
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.

--- Page 1144 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1175
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the

--- Page 1145 ---
1176  Environmental Studies/Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•Demonstrate an understanding of scientiﬁc, social, and humanistic
approaches to environmental questions. [BA]
•Appraise the interactions and synergies between the natural world,
social systems, and human cultures. [BA]
•Advance environmental and social sustainability that integrates
scientiﬁc research, social analysis, and cultural awareness. [BA]
•Engaged actions of self-awareness and social solidarity that reflect a
commitment to integral ecology. [BA]
•Learn how to use state-of-the-art equipment in our Convergence
Studio and technology labs. [MC]
•Learn audience engagement and analytics to understand user
activities and to drive improvements in distribution performance.
Students will learn digital audience behavior and the legal, marketing
and economic environment for ﬁnding ideal audiences and
distributing digital content. [MC]
•Create a capstone project that integrates learning from all
coursework and culminates in a professional project that is widely
distributed to the public. [MC]
SES Shared Learning Outcomes
All SES majors share the following Program Learning Objectives, in
addition to their unique major-speciﬁc Program Learning Objectives:
1. Articulate the foundational principles of natural and social sciences
and humanities essential to solving environmental problems.
2. Critically evaluate the accuracy and credibility of information relating to
environmental topics.3. Employ knowledge and skills to design and implement solutions that
contribute to a just and sustainable world.
4. Exemplify the values of environmental and social justice through
actions to care for our common home and one another.
Environmental Studies/
Environmental Science and
Sustainability (BA/MS)
Loyola's BA in Environmental Studies combines a solid base of courses
in the natural sciences with course work in the social sciences  to prepare
students for careers in government, business, education, non-proﬁt
organizations or the media.
With our Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s Program, Loyola SES students
can boost their professional credentials and save time and money by
completing an undergraduate degree along with a master of science in
environmental science and sustainability degree in as little as ﬁve years.
The economic and academic beneﬁts are substantial.
Related Programs
Major
•Environmental Studies (BA)  (p. 946)
Combined
•Environmental Studies/Business (BA/MBA)  (p. 1166 )
•Environmental Studies/Digital Media and Storytelling (BA/MC)
(p. 1171 )
Curriculum
Environmental Studies BA students complete coursework spanning a
variety of disciplines pertinent to the understanding of environmental
issues.
Code Title Hours
BS RequirementsCore CurriculumENVS 137 Foundations of Environmental Science I 3ENVS 237Foundations of Environmental Chemistry3
ENVS 238 Foundations of Environmental Science Lab 1ENVS 200Environmental Careers and Professional Skills1
ENVS 203 Environmental Statistics 3ENVS 280Principles of Ecology3
ENVS 286 Principles of Ecology Lab 1PLSC 392Environmental Politics3
Justice and Ethics ChoiceSelect one of the following:3
ENVS 284 Environmental JusticePHIL 287Environmental EthicsTHEO 204 Religious Ethics and the Ecological CrisisEconomics ChoiceSelect one of the following: 3ENVS 335Ecological EconomicsECON 328 Environmental EconomicsEngaged Learning Choice

--- Page 1146 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1177
Select one of the following: 3ENVS 226Science & Conservation of Freshwater EcosystemsENVS 267 Bird Conservation and EcologyENVS 273Energy and the EnvironmentENVS 283 Environmental SustainabilityENVS 340Natural History of BelizeENVS 345 Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
EcosystemsENVS 350ASolutions to Environmental Problems: WaterENVS 350B Solutions to Environmental Problems: BiogasENVS 350CSolutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
ActionENVS 350F Solutions to Environmental Problems: Food
SystemsENVS 391Environmental ResearchENVS 395 Environmental InternshipCapstone ChoiceSelect one of the following: 3ENVS 390Integrative SeminarENVS 391C Independent Environmental Research (Capstone)ENVS 395CEnvironmental Internship (Capstone)Electives  (p. 1177 ) 21See designated elective categories belowMS RequirementsRequired CoursesENVS 401 Sustainable Systems - Natural Science
Perspectives3ENVS 402Sustainable Systems - Social Science Perspectives3
Choose One of Four Concentrations  19-12Environmental Law & PolicyENVS 410 Introduction to Environmental Law & PolicyENVS 411Natural Resources and Land Use Law & PolicyENVS 412 Water Law & PolicyENVS 413Energy Law & PolicyGeographic Information SystemsENVS 480Introduction to Geographic Information SystemsENVS 481 Advanced GIS ApplicationsENVS 482Remote SensingSustainable Assessment and PlanningENVS 451Introduction to Sustainability Concepts & ImpactsENVS 452 Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IENVS 453Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IIENVS 454 Sustainability Plan Development & ReportingSustainable BusinessENVS 433 Introduction to the Circular EconomyENVS 435Ecological EconomicsENVS 436 Design for Circular & Sustainable BusinessENVS 463Sustainable Business ManagementElectives  (p. 1179 )12-15Total Hours811Students choosing the Geographical Information Systems track must
take an additional elective course to meet a total credit hours for the
MS.
BA Electives
Code Title Hours
Society, Ethics, and JusticeSelect two of the following:6
COMM 260 Environmental JournalismENVS 204Gender, Health & EnvironmentENVS 279 Climate and HistoryENVS 284Environmental JusticeENVS 297 North American Environmental HistoryENVS 298Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 310 Introduction to Environmental Law & PolicyENVS 311Natural Resources and Land Use Law & PolicyENVS 312 Water Law & PolicyENVS 313Energy Law & PolicyENVS 338 Climate Change and Human HealthENVS 350ASolutions to Environmental Problems: WaterENVS 350B Solutions to Environmental Problems: BiogasENVS 350CSolutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
ActionENVS 350F Solutions to Environmental Problems: Food
SystemsENVS 383Human Dimensions of ConservationENVS 391 Environmental ResearchENVS 395Environmental InternshipENVS 398 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399Directed ReadingsCOMM 101 Public Speaking & Critical ThinkingCOMM 277Organizational CommunicationCOMM 306 Environmental AdvocacyCOMM 322Guerilla MediaENGL 288 Nature in LiteraturePHIL 287Environmental EthicsPSYC 277 Environmental PsychologySOCL 226Science, Technology, & SocietySOCL 252 Global InequalitiesSOCL 272Environmental SociologySOCL 276 The Sociology and Politics of FoodSOCL 278Global HealthTHEO 204 Religious Ethics and the Ecological CrisisTHEO 344Theology and EcologyPolicy, Economics, and Resource ManagementSelect one of the following:3
ENVS 298 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 300Introduction to Public HealthENVS 310 Introduction to Environmental Law & PolicyENVS 311Natural Resources and Land Use Law & PolicyENVS 312 Water Law & PolicyENVS 313Energy Law & Policy

--- Page 1147 ---
1178  Environmental Studies/Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)
ENVS 332ENVS 333Introduction to the Circular EconomyENVS 335 Ecological EconomicsENVS 336Design for Circular & Sustainable BusinessENVS 338 Climate Change and Human HealthENVS 351Introduction to Sustainability Concepts & ImpactsENVS 363 Sustainable Business ManagementENVS 364ENVS 383 Human Dimensions of ConservationENVS 384Conservation EconomicsENVS 389 Ecological Risk AssessmentENVS 391Environmental ResearchENVS 395 Environmental InternshipENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399 Directed ReadingsECON 328Environmental EconomicsGLST 305 Globalization and Environmental SustainabilityMGMT 201Managing People and OrganizationsPLSC 354 Global Environmental PoliticsMethods and AnalysisSelect one of the following: 3COMM 260Environmental JournalismENVS 298 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 327Food Systems AnalysisENVS 352 Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IENVS 353Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IIENVS 354 Sustainability Plan Development & ReportingENVS 380Introduction to Geographic Information SystemsENVS 381 Advanced GIS ApplicationsENVS 382Remote SensingENVS 384 Conservation EconomicsENVS 388ENVS 389 Ecological Risk AssessmentENVS 391Environmental ResearchENVS 395 Environmental InternshipENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399 Directed ReadingsANTH 317Ethnographic MethodsBIOL 335 Intro to BiostatisticsCOMM 231Conflict Management and CommunicationCOMM 234 Interviewing for CommunicationCOMM 277Organizational CommunicationCOMM 363 Research Methods in Advertising/Public RelationsMARK 320Marketing for Environmental SustainabilitySOCL 206 Principles of Social ResearchSOCL 301Statistics for Social ResearchSOCL 302 Qualitative ResearchSTAT 203Introduction to Probability & StatisticsSTAT 303 SAS Programming & Applied StatisticsEnvironmental ElectivesChoose three, at least one of which must be from List A and at least
one of which must be at the 300 level):9List AENVS 204 Gender, Health & EnvironmentENVS 207Plants and CivilizationENVS 218 Biodiversity & BiogeographyENVS 223Soil EcologyENVS 224 Climate & Climate ChangeENVS 226Science & Conservation of Freshwater EcosystemsENVS 227R Ecology of the Mediterranean SeaENVS 267Bird Conservation and EcologyENVS 273 Energy and the EnvironmentENVS 274Chemistry of the Natural EnvironmentENVS 278 HydrologyENVS 283Environmental SustainabilityENVS 298 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 300Introduction to Public HealthENVS 301 Environmental HealthENVS 303Introduction to EpidemiologyENVS 319ENVS 320Conservation BiologyENVS 322 Invasive SpeciesENVS 325Sustainable AgricultureENVS 326 AgroecosystemsENVS 327Food Systems AnalysisENVS 330 Restoration EcologyENVS 338Climate Change and Human HealthENVS 340 Natural History of BelizeENVS 345Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
EcosystemsENVS 350A Solutions to Environmental Problems: WaterENVS 350BSolutions to Environmental Problems: BiogasENVS 350C Solutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
ActionENVS 350FSolutions to Environmental Problems: Food
SystemsENVS 352 Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IENVS 353Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IIENVS 369 Field OrnithologyENVS 380Introduction to Geographic Information SystemsENVS 381 Advanced GIS ApplicationsENVS 382Remote SensingENVS 385 Introduction to Global HealthENVS 387Principles of EcotoxicologyENVS 388ENVS 389Ecological Risk AssessmentENVS 391 Environmental ResearchENVS 395Environmental InternshipENVS 398 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399Directed ReadingsANTH 104 The Human Ecological FootprintANTH 303People and ConservationList BCOMM 260Environmental JournalismENVS 279 Climate and History

--- Page 1148 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1179ENVS 297North American Environmental HistoryENVS 298 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 310Introduction to Environmental Law & PolicyENVS 311 Natural Resources and Land Use Law & PolicyENVS 312Water Law & PolicyENVS 313 Energy Law & PolicyENVS 332ENVS 333 Introduction to the Circular EconomyENVS 335Ecological EconomicsENVS 336 Design for Circular & Sustainable BusinessENVS 354Sustainability Plan Development & ReportingENVS 363 Sustainable Business ManagementENVS 364ENVS 383 Human Dimensions of ConservationENVS 384Conservation EconomicsENVS 388ENVS 391Environmental ResearchENVS 395 Environmental InternshipENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399 Directed ReadingsANTH 317Ethnographic MethodsCOMM 231 Conflict Management and CommunicationCOMM 234Interviewing for CommunicationCOMM 277 Organizational CommunicationCOMM 363Research Methods in Advertising/Public RelationsMARK 320 Marketing for Environmental SustainabilitySOCL 206Principles of Social ResearchSOCL 302 Qualitative ResearchBIOL, CHEM, PHYS 300-level courses (with SES approval)Total Hours21
MS Electives
Code Title Hours
Natural Science and Quantitative Courses 6Students will take at least two courses from the following list of
electives.ENVS 420 Conservation BiologyENVS 422Invasive SpeciesENVS 425 Sustainable AgricultureENVS 426AgroecosystemsENVS 427 Food Systems AnalysisENVS 430Restoration EcologyENVS 435 Ecological EconomicsENVS 438Climate Change and Human HealthENVS 451 Introduction to Sustainability Concepts & ImpactsENVS 452Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IENVS 453 Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IIENVS 480Introduction to Geographic Information SystemsENVS 481 Advanced GIS ApplicationsENVS 482Remote SensingENVS 484 Conservation EconomicsENVS 487Principles of EcotoxicologyENVS 488ENVS 489Ecological Risk AssessmentENVS 491 Independent Environmental Research (upon
approval)ENVS 498Special Topics (upon approval)ENVS 498L Special Topics with Lab (upon approval)ENVS 499Directed Readings (upon approval)BIOL 495 Special TopicsBIOL 416Limnology Lec/LabBIOL 418 Aquatic Insects Lecture & LaboratoryBIOL 470Biostats & Exp Design Lec/LabMPBH 401 Environmental HealthMPBH 402Public Health Practice and ManagementMPBH 403 Introduction to EpidemiologyMPBH 404Biostatistics for Health and Biological ScienceMPBH 407 Public Health Policy: Concepts and PracticeMPBH 409Biostatistics IMPBH 412 Intro to Statistical Computing for Public HealthMPBH 414Introduction to Global HealthMPBH 421 Biostatistics IIMPBH 423Intermediate EpidemiologyMPP 401 Analytical Tools in Public PolicyMPP 402Cost Beneﬁt AnalysisMPP 403 Public Budget and FinanceMPP 405Statistical Methods & Analysis for Public Policy IMPP 406 Statistical Methods & Analysis Public Policy IIMPP 408Political Feasibility AnalysisSOCL 414 Statistical Methods Analysis ISOCL 415Statistical Methods of Analysis IISTAT 403 SAS Program & Applied StatisticsSTAT 407Statistical DesignSTAT 436 Topics in BiostatisticsSustainable Society and Business CoursesStudent may choose from courses focused on society’s interaction
with the environment: environmental law and policy, sustainable
business management, and fostering sustainable societies.ENVS 410Introduction to Environmental Law & PolicyENVS 411 Natural Resources and Land Use Law & PolicyENVS 412Water Law & PolicyENVS 413 Energy Law & PolicyENVS 432ENVS 433 Introduction to the Circular EconomyENVS 436Design for Circular & Sustainable BusinessENVS 454 Sustainability Plan Development & ReportingENVS 463Sustainable Business ManagementENVS 464ENVS 483Human Dimensions of ConservationENVS 491 Independent Environmental Research (upon
approval)ENVS 498Special Topics (upon approval)ENVS 499 Directed Readings (upon approval)MPBH 407Public Health Policy: Concepts and PracticeMPP 400 Policy Design and Analysis

--- Page 1149 ---
1180  Environmental Studies/Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)MPP 404Public Policy ProcessPSYC 460 Social Psychological TheoryPSYC 461Attitude and Attitude ChangePSYC 486 Methods of Program EvaluationSOCL 412Qualitative Methods in Social ResearchSOCL 446 Knowledge, Power & ExpertiseSOCL 463Sociology & Natural EnvironmentSuggested Sequence of Courses - Research Track 
Course Title Hours
Year One
FallENVS 137Foundations of Environmental Science I3 Hours3
Spring
ENVS 203 Environmental Statistics 3ENVS 237Foundations of Environmental Chemistry3
ENVS 238 Foundations of Environmental Science Lab 1Justice & Ethics Choice3 Hours10
Year Two
FallENVS 200Environmental Careers and Professional
Skills1
ENVS 280 Principles of Ecology 3ENVS 286Principles of Ecology Lab1 Hours5
SpringEnvironmental Science Elective List A3 Hours3
Year Three
FallSociety, Ethics, & Justice Elective3 Hours3
SpringPLSC 392Environmental Politics3Society, Ethics, & Justice Elective3 Hours6
Year Four
Fall
ENVS 335 
or ECON 328Ecological Economics 
or Environmental Economics3Engaged Learning Choice3
ENVS 402 Sustainable Systems - Social Science
Perspectives3400 Level Environmental Science Elective List A or B3 Hours12
SpringCapstone Choice3
Methods & Analysis Elective 3ENVS 401Sustainable Systems - Natural Science
Perspectives3400 Level Policy, Economics, & Resource Management Elective3 Hours12
Year Five
Fall
ENVS 496 Research 3-12400 Level Environmental Elective3400 Level Environmental Elective3 Hours9
Spring
ENVS 401 Sustainable Systems - Natural Science
Perspectives3400 Level Environmental Elective3400 Level Required Concentration Course3 Hours9 Total Hours72
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they

--- Page 1150 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1181
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both theundergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•Demonstrate an understanding of scientiﬁc, social, and humanistic
approaches to environmental questions. [BA]

--- Page 1151 ---
1182  Environmental Studies/Global Strategic Communication (BA/MS)
•Appraise the interactions and synergies between the natural world,
social systems, and human cultures. [BA]
•Advance environmental and social sustainability that integrates
scientiﬁc research, social analysis, and cultural awareness. [BA]
•Engaged actions of self-awareness and social solidarity that reflect a
commitment to integral ecology. [BA]
•Deepen your understanding of complex socio-ecological systems and
their connection with sustainable development goals. [MS]
•Increase your ability to make accurate and ethical evidence-based
decisions from scientiﬁc literature. [MS]
•Expand your capacity to communicate environmental science and
sustainability issues to the scientiﬁc community, professional
colleagues, policy makers, and the general public. [MS]
•Demonstrate competence of in-depth knowledge and skills through
completion of an original research project and thesis. [MS]
SES Shared Learning Outcomes
All SES majors share the following Program Learning Objectives, in
addition to their unique major-speciﬁc Program Learning Objectives:
1. Articulate the foundational principles of natural and social sciences
and humanities essential to solving environmental problems.
2. Critically evaluate the accuracy and credibility of information relating to
environmental topics.
3. Employ knowledge and skills to design and implement solutions that
contribute to a just and sustainable world.
4. Exemplify the values of environmental and social justice through
actions to care for our common home and one another.
Environmental Studies/Global
Strategic Communication (BA/MS)
The new Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's (ABM) program allows SES
students to earn their undergraduate degree in their declared major, while
also earning a master’s degree from the SOC in either the Digital Media
and Storytelling or Global Strategic Communication graduate programs.
The program trains environmental scientists to be better communicators.
While environmental scientists are trained to investigate, analyze data,
and interpret results, they are not taught how to communicate their
results and conclusions in ways that are readily accessible to the general
public, CEOs, or legislators. For students in the School of Environmental
Sustainability, the ABM program will help them with writing, public
speaking, conference presentations, television and radio interviews, and
social media messaging.
Related Programs
Combined
•Environmental Policy/Global Strategic Communication (BA/MS)
(p. 1117 )
•Environmental Science/Global Strategic Communication (BS/MS)
(p. 1146 )Curriculum
Environmental Studies BA students complete coursework spanning a
variety of disciplines pertinent to the understanding of environmental
issues.
Code Title Hours
BA RequirementsCore CurriculumENVS 137 Foundations of Environmental Science I 3ENVS 237Foundations of Environmental Chemistry3
ENVS 238 Foundations of Environmental Science Lab 1ENVS 200Environmental Careers and Professional Skills1
ENVS 203 Environmental Statistics 3ENVS 280Principles of Ecology3
ENVS 286 Principles of Ecology Lab 1PLSC 392Environmental Politics3
Justice and Ethics ChoiceSelect one of the following:3
ENVS 284 Environmental JusticePHIL 287Environmental EthicsTHEO 204 Religious Ethics and the Ecological CrisisEconomics ChoiceSelect one of the following: 3ENVS 335Ecological EconomicsECON 328 Environmental EconomicsEngaged Learning ChoiceSelect one of the following: 3ENVS 226Science & Conservation of Freshwater EcosystemsENVS 267 Bird Conservation and EcologyENVS 273Energy and the EnvironmentENVS 283 Environmental SustainabilityENVS 340Natural History of BelizeENVS 345 Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
EcosystemsENVS 350ASolutions to Environmental Problems: WaterENVS 350B Solutions to Environmental Problems: BiogasENVS 350CSolutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
ActionENVS 350F Solutions to Environmental Problems: Food
SystemsENVS 391Environmental ResearchENVS 395 Environmental InternshipCapstone ChoiceSelect one of the following: 3ENVS 390Integrative SeminarENVS 391C Independent Environmental Research (Capstone)ENVS 395CEnvironmental Internship (Capstone)Electives  (p. 1183 ) 21See designated elective categories belowMS RequirementsCOMM 401Foundations of Global Strategic Communication3
COMM 402 Organizational Leadership and Change
Management3

--- Page 1152 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1183COMM 403Strategic Communication Research Methods3
COMM 411 Strategic Communication Ethics and Law 3COMM 413Writing for Strategic Communication3
COMM 421 Topics in Global Strategic Communication 3COMM 431Campaign for Social Impact3
COMM 441 Global Strategic Communication Capstone 3Four (4) Electives from List of Electives for GSC  (p. 1184 )12Total Hours87
BA Electives
Code Title Hours
Society, Ethics, and JusticeSelect two of the following:6
COMM 260 Environmental JournalismENVS 204Gender, Health & EnvironmentENVS 279 Climate and HistoryENVS 284Environmental JusticeENVS 297 North American Environmental HistoryENVS 298Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 310 Introduction to Environmental Law & PolicyENVS 311Natural Resources and Land Use Law & PolicyENVS 312 Water Law & PolicyENVS 313Energy Law & PolicyENVS 338 Climate Change and Human HealthENVS 350ASolutions to Environmental Problems: WaterENVS 350B Solutions to Environmental Problems: BiogasENVS 350CSolutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
ActionENVS 350F Solutions to Environmental Problems: Food
SystemsENVS 383Human Dimensions of ConservationENVS 391 Environmental ResearchENVS 395Environmental InternshipENVS 398 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399Directed ReadingsCOMM 101 Public Speaking & Critical ThinkingCOMM 277Organizational CommunicationCOMM 306 Environmental AdvocacyCOMM 322Guerilla MediaENGL 288 Nature in LiteraturePHIL 287Environmental EthicsPSYC 277 Environmental PsychologySOCL 226Science, Technology, & SocietySOCL 252 Global InequalitiesSOCL 272Environmental SociologySOCL 276 The Sociology and Politics of FoodSOCL 278Global HealthTHEO 204 Religious Ethics and the Ecological CrisisTHEO 344Theology and EcologyPolicy, Economics, and Resource ManagementSelect one of the following:3
ENVS 298 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 300Introduction to Public HealthENVS 310 Introduction to Environmental Law & PolicyENVS 311Natural Resources and Land Use Law & PolicyENVS 312 Water Law & PolicyENVS 313Energy Law & PolicyENVS 332ENVS 333Introduction to the Circular EconomyENVS 335 Ecological EconomicsENVS 336Design for Circular & Sustainable BusinessENVS 338 Climate Change and Human HealthENVS 351Introduction to Sustainability Concepts & ImpactsENVS 363 Sustainable Business ManagementENVS 364ENVS 383 Human Dimensions of ConservationENVS 384Conservation EconomicsENVS 389 Ecological Risk AssessmentENVS 391Environmental ResearchENVS 395 Environmental InternshipENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399 Directed ReadingsECON 328Environmental EconomicsGLST 305 Globalization and Environmental SustainabilityMGMT 201Managing People and OrganizationsPLSC 354 Global Environmental PoliticsMethods and AnalysisSelect one of the following: 3COMM 260Environmental JournalismENVS 298 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 327Food Systems AnalysisENVS 352 Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IENVS 353Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IIENVS 354 Sustainability Plan Development & ReportingENVS 380Introduction to Geographic Information SystemsENVS 381 Advanced GIS ApplicationsENVS 382Remote SensingENVS 384 Conservation EconomicsENVS 388ENVS 389 Ecological Risk AssessmentENVS 391Environmental ResearchENVS 395 Environmental InternshipENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399 Directed ReadingsANTH 317Ethnographic MethodsBIOL 335 Intro to BiostatisticsCOMM 231Conflict Management and CommunicationCOMM 234 Interviewing for CommunicationCOMM 277Organizational CommunicationCOMM 363 Research Methods in Advertising/Public RelationsMARK 320Marketing for Environmental SustainabilitySOCL 206 Principles of Social ResearchSOCL 301Statistics for Social ResearchSOCL 302 Qualitative ResearchSTAT 203Introduction to Probability & Statistics

--- Page 1153 ---
1184  Environmental Studies/Global Strategic Communication (BA/MS)
STAT 303 SAS Programming & Applied StatisticsEnvironmental ElectivesChoose three, at least one of which must be from List A and at least
one of which must be at the 300 level):9List AENVS 204 Gender, Health & EnvironmentENVS 207Plants and CivilizationENVS 218 Biodiversity & BiogeographyENVS 223Soil EcologyENVS 224 Climate & Climate ChangeENVS 226Science & Conservation of Freshwater EcosystemsENVS 227R Ecology of the Mediterranean SeaENVS 267Bird Conservation and EcologyENVS 273 Energy and the EnvironmentENVS 274Chemistry of the Natural EnvironmentENVS 278 HydrologyENVS 283Environmental SustainabilityENVS 298 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 300Introduction to Public HealthENVS 301 Environmental HealthENVS 303Introduction to EpidemiologyENVS 319ENVS 320Conservation BiologyENVS 322 Invasive SpeciesENVS 325Sustainable AgricultureENVS 326 AgroecosystemsENVS 327Food Systems AnalysisENVS 330 Restoration EcologyENVS 338Climate Change and Human HealthENVS 340 Natural History of BelizeENVS 345Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
EcosystemsENVS 350A Solutions to Environmental Problems: WaterENVS 350BSolutions to Environmental Problems: BiogasENVS 350C Solutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
ActionENVS 350FSolutions to Environmental Problems: Food
SystemsENVS 352 Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IENVS 353Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IIENVS 369 Field OrnithologyENVS 380Introduction to Geographic Information SystemsENVS 381 Advanced GIS ApplicationsENVS 382Remote SensingENVS 385 Introduction to Global HealthENVS 387Principles of EcotoxicologyENVS 388ENVS 389Ecological Risk AssessmentENVS 391 Environmental ResearchENVS 395Environmental InternshipENVS 398 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399Directed ReadingsANTH 104 The Human Ecological FootprintANTH 303People and ConservationList BCOMM 260Environmental JournalismENVS 279 Climate and HistoryENVS 297North American Environmental HistoryENVS 298 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 310Introduction to Environmental Law & PolicyENVS 311 Natural Resources and Land Use Law & PolicyENVS 312Water Law & PolicyENVS 313 Energy Law & PolicyENVS 332ENVS 333 Introduction to the Circular EconomyENVS 335Ecological EconomicsENVS 336 Design for Circular & Sustainable BusinessENVS 354Sustainability Plan Development & ReportingENVS 363 Sustainable Business ManagementENVS 364ENVS 383 Human Dimensions of ConservationENVS 384Conservation EconomicsENVS 388ENVS 391Environmental ResearchENVS 395 Environmental InternshipENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399 Directed ReadingsANTH 317Ethnographic MethodsCOMM 231 Conflict Management and CommunicationCOMM 234Interviewing for CommunicationCOMM 277 Organizational CommunicationCOMM 363Research Methods in Advertising/Public RelationsMARK 320 Marketing for Environmental SustainabilitySOCL 206Principles of Social ResearchSOCL 302 Qualitative ResearchBIOL, CHEM, PHYS 300-level courses (with SES approval)Total Hours21
Electives for Global Strategic Communications
Code Title Hours
COMM 416 3COMM 417Media Planning3
COMM 421 Topics in Global Strategic Communication 13COMM 422Global and Multicultural Audiences and
Stakeholders3
COMM 425 Digital Marketing and Analytics 23COMM 429Advertising and Public Relations Design3
COMM 430 2D Design for Print and the Web 23COMM 432Public Interest Communication3
COMM 433 Corporate Communication 3COMM 436Social Media Crisis Communication3
COMM 437 Advertising/PR Multimedia Commercial
Production3COMM 444Social Media Advertising3
COMM 461 Health Communication 3COMM 463Intermediate Advertising Design3

--- Page 1154 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1185
COMM 464 Mobile Advertising 3COMM 470Special Topics in Advertising & Public Relations3
COMM 491 Advertising/Public Relations Internship 3COMM 498Directed Study for Graduate Students1-3
1May be repeated in a different city
2Only after all DMST students have enrolled
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year One
FallENVS 137Foundations of Environmental Science I3 Hours3
Spring
ENVS 203 Environmental Statistics 3ENVS 237Foundations of Environmental Chemistry3
ENVS 238 Foundations of Environmental Science Lab 1Justice & Ethics Choice3 Hours10
Year Two
FallENVS 200Environmental Careers and Professional
Skills1
ENVS 280 Principles of Ecology 3ENVS 286Principles of Ecology Lab1 Hours5
SpringENVS 335 
or ECON 328Ecological Economics 
or Environmental Economics3Environmental Science Elective List A3 Hours6
Year Three
FallEngaged Learning Choice3 Hours3
Spring
PLSC 392 Environmental Politics 3300 Level Environmental Science Elective3 Hours6
Year Four
FallPolicy, Economics, & Resource Management Elective3
Society, Ethics, & Justice Elective 3COMM 401Foundations of Global Strategic
Communication3
COMM 413 Writing for Strategic Communication 3COMM 306 
or COMM 379Environmental Advocacy 
or Digital Sustainability3 Hours15
SpringCapstone Choice3
Methods & Analysis Elective 3COMM 403Strategic Communication Research
Methods3
COMM 411 Strategic Communication Ethics and Law 3COMM 306 
or COMM 379Environmental Advocacy 
or Digital Sustainability3 Hours15
Year Five
FallCOMM 402Organizational Leadership and Change
Management3
COMM 431 Campaign for Social Impact 3400 Level GSC Elective3400 Level GSC Elective3 Hours12
Spring
COMM 421 Topics in Global Strategic Communication 3COMM 441Global Strategic Communication Capstone3
400 Level GSC Elective 3400 Level GSC Elective3 Hours12 Total Hours87
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1

--- Page 1155 ---
1186  Environmental Studies/Global Strategic Communication (BA/MS)
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the

--- Page 1156 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1187
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•Demonstrate an understanding of scientiﬁc, social, and humanistic
approaches to environmental questions. [BA]
•Appraise the interactions and synergies between the natural world,
social systems, and human cultures. [BA]
•Advance environmental and social sustainability that integrates
scientiﬁc research, social analysis, and cultural awareness. [BA]
•Engaged actions of self-awareness and social solidarity that reflect a
commitment to integral ecology. [BA]
•Create and implement strategic communication campaigns that
combine advertising, public relations and integrated marketing
communication, and are responsive to community needs and
organizational goals in local and global contexts. [MS]
•Write copy and design messages to reach diverse publics and for
distribution through multiple channels, including both traditional and
digital media. [MS]
•Understand the implications and applications of integrated strategies
for digital media in marketing, advertising and public relations
practices. [MS]
•Apply appropriate research methods to plan, monitor and evaluate
public relations, advertising and other communication campaigns and
activities. [MS]
•Practice ethical communication in professional practices that are
socially responsible and in the mutual interests of the organization
and the community. [MS]
•Demonstrate the competencies to work as a professional in
advertising or public relations. [MS]
SES Shared Learning Outcomes
All SES majors share the following Program Learning Objectives, in
addition to their unique major-speciﬁc Program Learning Objectives:
1. Articulate the foundational principles of natural and social sciences
and humanities essential to solving environmental problems.
2. Critically evaluate the accuracy and credibility of information relating to
environmental topics.
3. Employ knowledge and skills to design and implement solutions that
contribute to a just and sustainable world.
4. Exemplify the values of environmental and social justice through
actions to care for our common home and one another.
Environmental Studies/Public Policy
(BA/MPP)
From ecological restoration to water conservation, from climate change
adaptation to storm water management, the challenge is clear. The needfor individuals with literacy and skills relevant to both environmental
science and public policy has never been greater.
The SES dual degree programs with the Master of Public Policy (MPP)
prepare graduates to meet these challenges effectively in careers in
government, non-proﬁt organizations, and businesses.
Related Programs
Combined
•Environmental Policy/Public Policy (BA/MPP)  (p. 1122 )
•Environmental Science/Public Policy (BS/MPP)  (p. 1159 )
Curriculum
These dual degree programs begin with a broad, interdisciplinary
undergraduate curriculum drawing on courses in the natural sciences,
social sciences, humanities, and business.
Undergraduate service-learning, internships, research, and study abroad
provide students with rich, experiential learning opportunities. Students
then develop more in-depth understanding of policy issues and the
professional skills necessary to influence policy outcomes as part of their
graduate studies.
Environmental Studies BA students complete coursework spanning a
variety of disciplines pertinent to the understanding of environmental
issues.
Code Title Hours
BA RequirementsCore CurriculumENVS 137 Foundations of Environmental Science I 3ENVS 237Foundations of Environmental Chemistry3
ENVS 238 Foundations of Environmental Science Lab 1ENVS 200Environmental Careers and Professional Skills1
ENVS 203 Environmental Statistics 3ENVS 280Principles of Ecology3
ENVS 286 Principles of Ecology Lab 1PLSC 392Environmental Politics3
Justice and Ethics ChoiceSelect one of the following:3
ENVS 284 Environmental JusticePHIL 287Environmental EthicsTHEO 204 Religious Ethics and the Ecological CrisisEconomics ChoiceSelect one of the following: 3ENVS 335Ecological EconomicsECON 328 Environmental EconomicsEngaged Learning ChoiceSelect one of the following: 3ENVS 226Science & Conservation of Freshwater EcosystemsENVS 267 Bird Conservation and EcologyENVS 273Energy and the EnvironmentENVS 283 Environmental SustainabilityENVS 340Natural History of BelizeENVS 345 Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
Ecosystems

--- Page 1157 ---
1188  Environmental Studies/Public Policy (BA/MPP)ENVS 350ASolutions to Environmental Problems: WaterENVS 350B Solutions to Environmental Problems: BiogasENVS 350CSolutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
ActionENVS 350F Solutions to Environmental Problems: Food
SystemsENVS 391Environmental ResearchENVS 395 Environmental InternshipCapstone ChoiceSelect one of the following: 3ENVS 390Integrative SeminarENVS 391C Independent Environmental Research (Capstone)ENVS 395CEnvironmental Internship (Capstone)Electives  (p. 1188 ) 21See designated elective categories belowMPP RequirementsCore RequirementsMPP 400 Policy Design and Analysis 3MPP 401Analytical Tools in Public Policy3
MPP 403 Public Budget and Finance 3MPP 404Public Policy Process3
MPP 405 Statistical Methods & Analysis for Public Policy I 3MPP 406Statistical Methods & Analysis Public Policy II3
MPP 500 Public Policy Evaluation 3MPP 502Professional Development Skills1
MPP 501 Public Policy Internship 3
or MPP 503 Public Policy PracticumElectives  (p. 1190 )Select four from list of Electives12Total Hours88
BA Electives
Code Title Hours
Society, Ethics, and JusticeSelect two of the following:6
COMM 260 Environmental JournalismENVS 204Gender, Health & EnvironmentENVS 279 Climate and HistoryENVS 284Environmental JusticeENVS 297 North American Environmental HistoryENVS 298Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 310 Introduction to Environmental Law & PolicyENVS 311Natural Resources and Land Use Law & PolicyENVS 312 Water Law & PolicyENVS 313Energy Law & PolicyENVS 338 Climate Change and Human HealthENVS 350ASolutions to Environmental Problems: WaterENVS 350B Solutions to Environmental Problems: BiogasENVS 350CSolutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
ActionENVS 350F Solutions to Environmental Problems: Food
SystemsENVS 383Human Dimensions of ConservationENVS 391 Environmental ResearchENVS 395Environmental InternshipENVS 398 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399Directed ReadingsCOMM 101 Public Speaking & Critical ThinkingCOMM 277Organizational CommunicationCOMM 306 Environmental AdvocacyCOMM 322Guerilla MediaENGL 288 Nature in LiteraturePHIL 287Environmental EthicsPSYC 277 Environmental PsychologySOCL 226Science, Technology, & SocietySOCL 252 Global InequalitiesSOCL 272Environmental SociologySOCL 276 The Sociology and Politics of FoodSOCL 278Global HealthTHEO 204 Religious Ethics and the Ecological CrisisTHEO 344Theology and EcologyPolicy, Economics, and Resource ManagementSelect one of the following:3
ENVS 298 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 300Introduction to Public HealthENVS 310 Introduction to Environmental Law & PolicyENVS 311Natural Resources and Land Use Law & PolicyENVS 312 Water Law & PolicyENVS 313Energy Law & PolicyENVS 332ENVS 333Introduction to the Circular EconomyENVS 335 Ecological EconomicsENVS 336Design for Circular & Sustainable BusinessENVS 338 Climate Change and Human HealthENVS 351Introduction to Sustainability Concepts & ImpactsENVS 363 Sustainable Business ManagementENVS 364ENVS 383 Human Dimensions of ConservationENVS 384Conservation EconomicsENVS 389 Ecological Risk AssessmentENVS 391Environmental ResearchENVS 395 Environmental InternshipENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399 Directed ReadingsECON 328Environmental EconomicsGLST 305 Globalization and Environmental SustainabilityMGMT 201Managing People and OrganizationsPLSC 354 Global Environmental PoliticsMethods and AnalysisSelect one of the following: 3COMM 260Environmental JournalismENVS 298 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 327Food Systems AnalysisENVS 352 Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IENVS 353Sustainability Assessment & Reporting II

--- Page 1158 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1189
ENVS 354 Sustainability Plan Development & ReportingENVS 380Introduction to Geographic Information SystemsENVS 381 Advanced GIS ApplicationsENVS 382Remote SensingENVS 384 Conservation EconomicsENVS 388ENVS 389 Ecological Risk AssessmentENVS 391Environmental ResearchENVS 395 Environmental InternshipENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399 Directed ReadingsANTH 317Ethnographic MethodsBIOL 335 Intro to BiostatisticsCOMM 231Conflict Management and CommunicationCOMM 234 Interviewing for CommunicationCOMM 277Organizational CommunicationCOMM 363 Research Methods in Advertising/Public RelationsMARK 320Marketing for Environmental SustainabilitySOCL 206 Principles of Social ResearchSOCL 301Statistics for Social ResearchSOCL 302 Qualitative ResearchSTAT 203Introduction to Probability & StatisticsSTAT 303 SAS Programming & Applied StatisticsEnvironmental ElectivesChoose three, at least one of which must be from List A and at least
one of which must be at the 300 level):9List AENVS 204 Gender, Health & EnvironmentENVS 207Plants and CivilizationENVS 218 Biodiversity & BiogeographyENVS 223Soil EcologyENVS 224 Climate & Climate ChangeENVS 226Science & Conservation of Freshwater EcosystemsENVS 227R Ecology of the Mediterranean SeaENVS 267Bird Conservation and EcologyENVS 273 Energy and the EnvironmentENVS 274Chemistry of the Natural EnvironmentENVS 278 HydrologyENVS 283Environmental SustainabilityENVS 298 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 300Introduction to Public HealthENVS 301 Environmental HealthENVS 303Introduction to EpidemiologyENVS 319ENVS 320Conservation BiologyENVS 322 Invasive SpeciesENVS 325Sustainable AgricultureENVS 326 AgroecosystemsENVS 327Food Systems AnalysisENVS 330 Restoration EcologyENVS 338Climate Change and Human HealthENVS 340 Natural History of BelizeENVS 345Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
EcosystemsENVS 350A Solutions to Environmental Problems: WaterENVS 350BSolutions to Environmental Problems: BiogasENVS 350C Solutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
ActionENVS 350FSolutions to Environmental Problems: Food
SystemsENVS 352 Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IENVS 353Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IIENVS 369 Field OrnithologyENVS 380Introduction to Geographic Information SystemsENVS 381 Advanced GIS ApplicationsENVS 382Remote SensingENVS 385 Introduction to Global HealthENVS 387Principles of EcotoxicologyENVS 388ENVS 389Ecological Risk AssessmentENVS 391 Environmental ResearchENVS 395Environmental InternshipENVS 398 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399Directed ReadingsANTH 104 The Human Ecological FootprintANTH 303People and ConservationList BCOMM 260Environmental JournalismENVS 279 Climate and HistoryENVS 297North American Environmental HistoryENVS 298 Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 310Introduction to Environmental Law & PolicyENVS 311 Natural Resources and Land Use Law & PolicyENVS 312Water Law & PolicyENVS 313 Energy Law & PolicyENVS 332ENVS 333 Introduction to the Circular EconomyENVS 335Ecological EconomicsENVS 336 Design for Circular & Sustainable BusinessENVS 354Sustainability Plan Development & ReportingENVS 363 Sustainable Business ManagementENVS 364ENVS 383 Human Dimensions of ConservationENVS 384Conservation EconomicsENVS 388ENVS 391Environmental ResearchENVS 395 Environmental InternshipENVS 398Special Topics (with SES approval)ENVS 399 Directed ReadingsANTH 317Ethnographic MethodsCOMM 231 Conflict Management and CommunicationCOMM 234Interviewing for CommunicationCOMM 277 Organizational CommunicationCOMM 363Research Methods in Advertising/Public RelationsMARK 320 Marketing for Environmental Sustainability

--- Page 1159 ---
1190  Environmental Studies/Public Policy (BA/MPP)SOCL 206Principles of Social ResearchSOCL 302 Qualitative ResearchBIOL, CHEM, PHYS 300-level courses (with SES approval)Total Hours21
MPP Electives
Students are required to take 12 hours of electives. Electives can be
drawn from departments across the university, including environmental
studies and public health. These electives are where students can focus
on their preferred ﬁeld of policy. The following are some examples of
optional courses:
Code Title Hours
EnvironmentENVS 410Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy3
ENVS 411 Natural Resources and Land Use Law & Policy 3ENVS 412Water Law & Policy3
ENVS 413 Energy Law & Policy 3ENVS 480Introduction to Geographic Information Systems3
ENVS 481 Advanced GIS Applications 3Public HealthMPBH 400 Determinants of Population Health 3MPBH 401Environmental Health3
MPBH 407 Public Health Policy: Concepts and Practice 3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
Course Title Hours
Year One
FallENVS 137Foundations of Environmental Science I3 Hours3
Spring
ENVS 203 Environmental Statistics 3ENVS 237Foundations of Environmental Chemistry3
ENVS 238 Foundations of Environmental Science Lab 1Justice & Ethics Choice3 Hours10
Year Two
FallENVS 200Environmental Careers and Professional
Skills1
ENVS 280 Principles of Ecology 3ENVS 286Principles of Ecology Lab1 Hours5
SpringEnvironmental Science Elective List A3ENVS 335 
or ECON 328Ecological Economics 
or Environmental Economics3 Hours6
Year Three
Fall
Society, Ethics, & Justice Elective 3Engaged Learning Choice3 Hours6SpringPLSC 392Environmental Politics3
Environmental Science Elective 3300 Level Environmental Science Elective3 Hours9
Year Four
FallPolicy, Economics, & Resource Management Elective3
Society, Ethic, & Justice Elective 3MPP 400 
or MPP 401 
or MPP 404Policy Design and Analysis 
or Analytical Tools in Public Policy 
or Public Policy Process3ENVS 410 
or ENVS 411 
or ENVS 480Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy 
or Natural Resources and Land Use Law
& Policy 
or Introduction to Geographic
Information Systems3 Hours12
Spring
Capstone Choice 3Methods & Analysis Elective3
MPP 403 
or MPP 404Public Budget and Finance 
or Public Policy Process3MPP 413 
or ENVS 412 
or ENVS 413 
or ENVS 481Intergovernmental Relations 
or Water Law & Policy 
or Energy Law & Policy 
or Advanced GIS Applications3 Hours12
Year Five
FallMPP 405Statistical Methods & Analysis for Public
Policy I3
MPP 501 Public Policy Internship 3MPP 502Professional Development Skills1
MPP Elective 3MPP Elective3 Hours13
SpringMPP 406Statistical Methods & Analysis Public
Policy II3
MPP 500 Public Policy Evaluation 3MPP Elective3MPP Elective3 Hours12 Total Hours88
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  

--- Page 1160 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1191
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.

--- Page 1161 ---
1192  Exercise Science (BS/MS)
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of the joint degree program, students will be able to:
•Apply scientiﬁc knowledge to the understanding of environmental
problems and their physical causes.
•Understand the ethical, social, and scientiﬁc dimensions of issues
such as biodiversity loss, hunger, water, energy, and climate change.
•Assess environmental problems and potential solutions by
integrating economic, societal, ethical, political, scientiﬁc, and
historical perspectives.
•Combine knowledge about current government programs with
technical skills to assess how politics influence policy choices,
to evaluate the impacts of existing programs, and to design more
effective programs with respect to sustainability.
•Understand the role of advocacy in the political system, including the
role and limitations of expert analysis and data in political decisions.
SES Shared Learning Outcomes
All SES majors share the following Program Learning Objectives, in
addition to their unique major-speciﬁc Program Learning Objectives:
1. Articulate the foundational principles of natural and social sciences
and humanities essential to solving environmental problems.2. Critically evaluate the accuracy and credibility of information relating to
environmental topics.
3. Employ knowledge and skills to design and implement solutions that
contribute to a just and sustainable world.
4. Exemplify the values of environmental and social justice through
actions to care for our common home and one another.
Exercise Science (BS/MS)
Loyola also offers a ﬁve-year bachelor to master's program for
undergraduate exercise science majors. Accelerate your progress and
earn both degrees in just ﬁve years (earning the degrees separately takes
at least six years).
Related Programs
Major
•Exercise Science (BS)  (p. 720)
•Public Health (BS)  (p. 728)
Master's
•Exercise Science (MS)  (p. 1865 )
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Exercise Science Prerequisites (Not including elective CORE classes)BIOL 101 
& BIOL 111General Biology I 
and General Biology I Lab4
BIOL 102 
& BIOL 112General Biology II 
and General Biology II Lab4CHEM 160 
& CHEM 161Chemical Structure and Properties 
and Chemical Structure and Properties Laboratory4
CHEM 180 
& CHEM 181Chemical Reactivity I 
and Chemical Reactivity I Lab4MATH 118Precalculus II3
STAT 103 Fundamentals of Statistics 3PSYC 101General Psychology3
PSYC 273 Developmental Psychology 3EXCM 155 
& 155LAnatomy and Physiology I 
and Anatomy and Physiology I Lab4
EXCM 156 
& 156LAnatomy and Physiology II 
and Anatomy and Physiology II Lab4PHYS 111 
& 111LCollege Physics I Lec / Dis 
and College Physics Laboratory I4
PHYS 112 
& 112LCollege Physics II Lec/Disc 
and College Physics Lab II4EXCM 101Introduction to Exercise Physiology3
EXCM 201 Physiology of Exercise 4Exercise Science Major CourseEXCM 210 Program Design in Exercise 2EXCM 301Advanced Physiology of Exercise3
EXCM 342 Physical Growth, Development and Nutrition 3EXCM 345Therapeutic Exercise and Rehabilitation3
EXCM 364 Intro to Clinical Exercise Testing and Prescription 3EXCM 368Advanced Clinical Testing and Prescriptions3

--- Page 1162 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1193
EXCM 375 Special Populations in Exercise Science 2EXCM 382Clinical Research: Methods, Design and Ethics w/
Lab3
EXCM 385 Kinesiology and Sports Biomechanics w/Lab 4EXCM 387Movement Anatomy in Exercise3
EXCM 390 Psychology of Health and Exercise 3EXCM 395Clinical Internship and Patient Management6
MS Exercise Science Major CoursesMS EXCM Core CoursesEXCM 401 Applied Physiology of Exercise 4EXCM 450Nutrition, Health and Performance3
EXCM 475 Exercise Applications in Special Populations 3EXCM 482Research Methods and Evidence in Exercise
Science3
MS EXCM Track-Speciﬁc Curricula & Electives 18-19See Below For Speciﬁc InformationInternshipEXCM 495Advanced Exercise Science Internship4Total Hours124-125
Courses & Tracks
General Track
Code Title Hours
MS EXCM Core CoursesEXCM 401Applied Physiology of Exercise4
EXCM 450 Nutrition, Health and Performance 3EXCM 475Exercise Applications in Special Populations3
EXCM 482 Research Methods and Evidence in Exercise
Science3MS EXCM General Track-Speciﬁc Curricula18-19
Must complete a minimum of 18 credit hours (15 of which are EXCM
courses) from below:EXCM 424Motor Learning and PerformanceEXCM 435 Health Promotion and Wellness Theories and
FrameworksEXCM 444Strength Training and ConditioningEXCM 454 Applied Sports ScienceEXCM 458Cardiac and Pulmonary Disease and RehabilitationEXCM 468 Application of Advanced Clinical Exercise Testing
& PrescriptionEXCM 475Exercise Applications in Special PopulationsEXCM 478 EKG InterpretationEXCM 480Advanced Exercise Assessment and ProgrammingEXCM 485 Applied BiomechanicsFONU 507Behavioral Change for Health PromotionMHA 405 U.S. Health Systems ManagementMPBH 413Non-Communicable Disease EpidemiologyMPBH 431 Grant WritingInternshipEXCM 495Advanced Exercise Science Internship4Total Hours35-36Human Performance Concentration Courses 
Code Title Hours
MS EXCM Core CoursesEXCM 401Applied Physiology of Exercise4
EXCM 450 Nutrition, Health and Performance 3EXCM 475Exercise Applications in Special Populations3
EXCM 482 Research Methods and Evidence in Exercise
Science3MS EXCM Human Performance Track-Speciﬁc CurriculaEXCM 424 Motor Learning and Performance 3EXCM 444Strength Training and Conditioning3
EXCM 480 Advanced Exercise Assessment and Programming 3EXCM 485Applied Biomechanics4
ElectivesMust complete a minimum of 6 credit hours (3 of which are EXCM
courses) from below:6
EXCM 435 Health Promotion and Wellness Theories and
FrameworksEXCM 454Applied Sports ScienceEXCM 458 Cardiac and Pulmonary Disease and RehabilitationEXCM 468Application of Advanced Clinical Exercise Testing
& PrescriptionEXCM 478 EKG InterpretationFONU 507Behavioral Change for Health PromotionMHA 405 U.S. Health Systems ManagementMPBH 413Non-Communicable Disease EpidemiologyMPBH 431 Grant WritingInternshipEXCM 495Advanced Exercise Science Internship4Total Hours36
Clinical Exercise Science Concentration Courses
Code Title Hours
MS EXCM Core CoursesEXCM 401Applied Physiology of Exercise4
EXCM 450 Nutrition, Health and Performance 3EXCM 475Exercise Applications in Special Populations3
EXCM 482 Research Methods and Evidence in Exercise
Science3MS EXCM Clinical Exercise Track-Speciﬁc CurriculaEXCM 435 Health Promotion and Wellness Theories and
Frameworks3EXCM 458Cardiac and Pulmonary Disease and Rehabilitation3
EXCM 468 Application of Advanced Clinical Exercise Testing
& Prescription4EXCM 478EKG Interpretation3
ElectivesMust complete a minimum of 6 credit hours (3 of which are EXCM
courses) from below:6
EXCM 424 Motor Learning and PerformanceEXCM 444Strength Training and ConditioningEXCM 454 Applied Sports ScienceEXCM 480Advanced Exercise Assessment and ProgrammingEXCM 485 Applied Biomechanics

--- Page 1163 ---
1194  Exercise Science (BS/MS)FONU 507Behavioral Change for Health PromotionMHA 405 U.S. Health Systems ManagementMPBH 413Non-Communicable Disease EpidemiologyMPBH 431 Grant WritingInternshipEXCM 495Advanced Exercise Science Internship4Total Hours36
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
BIOL 101 
& BIOL 111General Biology I 
and General Biology I Lab4EXCM 155 
& 155LAnatomy and Physiology I 
and Anatomy and Physiology I Lab4
CORE 3CORE3UNIV 101First Year Seminar1 Hours15
Spring
UCWR 110 Writing Responsibly 3BIOL 102 
& BIOL 112General Biology II 
and General Biology II Lab4
EXCM 156 
& 156LAnatomy and Physiology II 
and Anatomy and Physiology II Lab4CORE3CORE3 Hours17
Year 2
Fall
PSYC 101 General Psychology 3CHEM 160 
& CHEM 161Chemical Structure and Properties 
and Chemical Structure and Properties
Laboratory4
EXCM 101 Introduction to Exercise Physiology 3CORE3CORE3 Hours16
Spring
EXCM 201 Physiology of Exercise 4CHEM 180 
& CHEM 181Chemical Reactivity I 
and Chemical Reactivity I Lab4
STAT 103 Fundamentals of Statistics 3CORE3CORE3 Hours17Year 3
Fall
PSYC 273 Developmental Psychology 3PHYS 111 
& 111LCollege Physics I Lec / Dis 
and College Physics Laboratory I4
EXCM 364 Intro to Clinical Exercise Testing and
Prescription3CORE3CORE3 Hours16
Spring
PHYS 112 
& 112LCollege Physics II Lec/Disc 
and College Physics Lab II4EXCM 210Program Design in Exercise2
EXCM 301 Advanced Physiology of Exercise 3EXCM 368Advanced Clinical Testing and
Prescriptions3CORE3 Hours15
Year 4
Fall
EXCM 345 Therapeutic Exercise and Rehabilitation 3EXCM 385Kinesiology and Sports Biomechanics w/
Lab4
EXCM 390 Psychology of Health and Exercise 3EXCM 435Health Promotion and Wellness Theories
and Frameworks3EXCM 450Nutrition, Health and Performance3 Hours16
Spring
EXCM 387 Movement Anatomy in Exercise 3EXCM 395Clinical Internship and Patient
Management6
EXCM 475 Exercise Applications in Special
Populations3EXCM 482Research Methods and Evidence in
Exercise Science3 Hours15
Year 5
FallEXCM 401Applied Physiology of Exercise4
MS EXCM Track Speciﬁc Course or Elective 3-4MS EXCM Track Speciﬁc Course or Elective3-4 Hours10-12
SpringMS EXCM Track Speciﬁc Course or Elective3-4
MS EXCM Track Speciﬁc Course or Elective 3-4MS EXCM Track Speciﬁc Course or Elective3-4 Hours9-12
SummerEXCM 495Advanced Exercise Science Internship4 Hours4 Total Hours150-155

--- Page 1164 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1195
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate

--- Page 1165 ---
1196  Film and Digital Media: Film and Media Production Track/Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•Demonstrate proﬁciency in exercise and ﬁtness screening, health
appraisal and risk stratiﬁcation, ﬁtness assessment and evaluation,
and exercise techniques. [Undergraduate]
•Communicate effectively and collaboratively with clients
and the interprofessional team in exercise and ﬁtness
settings. [Undergraduate]
•Integrate values, ethics, and client preferences into exercise science
practice [Undergraduate]
•Participate in activities to promote lifelong learning and professional
development in exercise science. [Undergraduate]
•Demonstrate proﬁciency in critical thinking and evidence-based
decision making in Exercise science. [Undergraduate]
•Synthesize knowledge from the arts, sciences and exercise sciences
as the basis for assessment of physical capabilities and exercise
prescriptions. [Undergraduate]
•Conduct comprehensive health and ﬁtness assessments using
theories and frameworks. [Graduate]•Apply scientiﬁc principles and evidence-based recommendations
into the prescription, implementation, and evaluation of exercise and
ﬁtness programs. [Graduate]
•Create lifestyle modiﬁcation and health promotion plans for
individuals and groups. [Graduate]
•Incorporate effective communication and motivational strategies to
support clients or patients as they adopt, perform, and maintain a
healthy lifestyle. [Graduate]
•Implement role behaviors consistent with the scope of practice of
exercise sciences. [Graduate]
•Manage human, ﬁscal, and physical resources of health ﬁtness
facilities and programs. [Graduate]
Film and Digital Media: Film
and Media Production Track/
Environmental Science and
Sustainability (BA/MS)
Loyola’s School of Communication, in partnership with the School of
Environmental Sustainability, offers a program that enables students
to earn an undergraduate and graduate degree in environmental
communication in ﬁve years.
The Accelerated Bachelor's to Master's program allows SOC students to
earn their undergraduate degree in their declared major, plus a master’s
degree in Environmental Science and Sustainability.
Similarly, SES students can earn their undergraduate degree in
their declared major, while also earning a master’s degree from the
SOC in either the Digital Media and Storytelling or Global Strategic
Communication graduate programs.
The two schools developed the Accelerated Bachelor's to
Master's program to train environmental scientists to be better
communicators, and communication professionals to better understand
environmental science.
These 4+1 programs are uniquely applied and strongly interdisciplinary.
They integrate basic science concepts, communication theory and
practice, and socio-cultural dimensions to cultivate the interdisciplinary
problem-solving and communication skills necessary for developing
sustainable solutions. The goals of these programs are to:
•Educate students across the sciences, social sciences and
humanities, providing knowledge and interdisciplinary perspectives
needed to effectively address complex environmental problems
through grounding in solid scientiﬁc understanding of ecosystem
operation.
•Develop skills in environmental and sustainability sciences including
GIS, sustainability tracking, and environmental communications
as well as important professional skills, such as interdisciplinary
thinking, systems thinking, research design, data collection, data
analysis, research ethics, technical writing, and communication.
•Improve communication skills by teaching students how to tell
stories through enhanced speaking and presentation methods, better
writing, video production, recording podcasts, developing blogs and
social media.

--- Page 1166 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1197
•Prepare students for advancement in careers in the public and private
sectors, including in government agencies, consulting ﬁrms, media
organizations, businesses, and not-for-proﬁt organizations.
For more information, email:   LoyolaSOC@luc.edu
Related Programs
Major
•Film and Digital Media: Film and Media Production Track (BA)
(p. 831)
•Film and Digital Media: International Programming Track (BA)
(p. 833)
Combined
•Film and Digital Media: International Programming Track/
Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)  (p. 1208 )
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
BA RequirementsRequired CoursesCOMM 100 SOC Career Prep Seminar 1COMM 130Intro to Audio Production3
COMM 135 Intro to Video Production 3COMM 200Digital Communication and Society3
COMM 201 Media Theory and Criticism 3COMM 202Story for Film and Television3
COMM 274 Introduction to Cinema 3COMM 350Producing for Film & Digital Media3
Production Electives  16Choose two (2) courses from the Production elective list  (p. 1197 )Media Studies Electives 6COMM 203Topics in Cinema Historyor COMM 324Film Genre
Choose course from above, or from the Media Studies Elective list
(p. 1197 )Advanced Production  13
Select one of the following:COMM 232Cinematography ICOMM 308 Screen DirectingCOMM 310Production DesignCOMM 326 ScreenwritingCOMM 359Advanced Post ProductionInternshipCOMM 394Film & Digital Media Internship3
Capstone  13Select one of the following:COMM 338 Narrative ProductionCOMM 339Video DocumentaryCOMM 388 Film and Digital Media CapstoneRequired MS Courses  2COMM 406 Environmental Advocacy 3COMM 479Digital Sustainability3ENVS 401 Sustainable Systems - Natural Science
Perspectives3ENVS 402Sustainable Systems - Social Science Perspectives3
Choose One of Four Concentrations:  39-12Environmental Law & PolicyENVS 410 Introduction to Environmental Law & PolicyENVS 411Natural Resources and Land Use Law & PolicyENVS 412 Water Law & PolicyENVS 413Energy Law & PolicyGeographic Information SystemsENVS 480Introduction to Geographic Information SystemsENVS 481 Advanced GIS ApplicationsENVS 482Remote SensingSustainable Assessment and PlanningENVS 451Introduction to Sustainability Concepts & ImpactsENVS 452 Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IENVS 453Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IIENVS 454 Sustainability Plan Development & ReportingSustainable BusinessENVS 433 Introduction to the Circular EconomyENVS 435Ecological EconomicsENVS 436 Design for Circular & Sustainable BusinessENVS 463Sustainable Business ManagementNatural Science and Quantitative Sustainable Society and Business
Electives  (p. 1198 ) 46-9Students will take at least two courses from the list of electivesTotal Hours73
1Electives can be selected from any of the courses listed in the section
which are not taken to fulﬁll another requirement. Ex:  COMM 232
Cinematography I  cannot count towards a Production and Advanced
Production elective credit.
2ENVS 401 Sustainable Systems - Natural Science
Perspectives , ENVS 402 Sustainable Systems - Social Science
Perspectives , COMM 406 Environmental Advocacy , & COMM 479 Digital
Sustainability  to be taken as an undergrad.
3Begin MS program full-time at the start with the concentration work.
4Students choosing the Geographical Information Systems track must
take an additional elective course to meet a total of 24 credit hours for
the MS.
BA Production & Media Studies Electives
Electives can be selected from any of the courses listed in the section
which are not taken to fulﬁll another credit.
Code Title Hours
Production Electives 6Select two of the following:COMM 205 Reporting Basics I: Writing and InterviewingCOMM 207PhotojournalismCOMM 210 Principles of Public RelationsCOMM 211Principles of AdvertisingCOMM 232 Cinematography ICOMM 275Web Design and UsabilityCOMM 299 Themes in Film and Digital Media

--- Page 1167 ---
1198  Film and Digital Media: Film and Media Production Track/Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)COMM 308Screen DirectingCOMM 310 Production DesignCOMM 326ScreenwritingCOMM 333 Cinematography IICOMM 337AD/PR Multimedia Commercial ProductionCOMM 338 Narrative ProductionCOMM 339Video DocumentaryCOMM 345 Student AgencyCOMM 357Programming Film & Media: Festivals, TV & DigitalCOMM 359 Advanced Post ProductionCOMM 374Special Topics: Film & Digital MediaCOMM 384 Film & Digital Media PracticumCOMM 405Story Development and ProductionCOMM 425 Digital Marketing and AnalyticsCOMP 125Visual Information ProcessingCOMP 150 Introduction to ComputingENGL 318The Writing of FictionENGL 319 Writing Creative NonﬁctionFNAR 132Visual Communication IFNAR 219 Photography: Digital ImagingFNAR 232Visual Communication IIFNAR 233 Digital Media DesignFNAR 234Digital Media: VectorFNAR 332 Visual Communication IIIFNAR 334Motion DesignFNAR 383 Interactive DesignMUSC 122Introduction to Digital MusicMUSC 201 Music Technology IMUSC 246Composition ITHTR 204 PlaywritingTHTR 252Theatrical Design ITHTR 261 Beginning ActingMedia Studies Electives6
COMM 203 Topics in Cinema History
or COMM 324 Film GenreCOMM 258Game StudiesCOMM 261 Social MediaCOMM 275Web Design and UsabilityCOMM 280 Media Technology & SocietyCOMM 322Guerilla MediaCOMM 323 Remixing CultureCOMM 360Digital Media EthicsCOMM 361 New Media CriticismENGL 359High and Low CultureLITR 204 European FilmLITR 219African FilmLITR 244 Indian FilmLITR 264Italian Film GenreLITR 267 Italian Film HistoryLITR 284International FilmFNAR 365 History of PhotographyFNAR 390Art History: Methods and ResearchGERM 370 German Cinema
MS Natural Science and Quantitative & Sustainable
Society and Business Electives
Code Title Hours
BIOL 470 Biostats & Exp Design Lec/Lab 4ENVS 420Conservation Biology3
ENVS 422 Invasive Species 3ENVS 425Sustainable Agriculture3
ENVS 426 Agroecosystems 3ENVS 427Food Systems Analysis3
ENVS 430 Restoration Ecology 3ENVS 438Climate Change and Human Health3
ENVS 469 Field Ornithology 3ENVS 484Conservation Economics3
ENVS 487 Principles of Ecotoxicology 3ENVS 4883
ENVS 489 Ecological Risk Assessment 3MPBH 401Environmental Health3
MPBH 403 Introduction to Epidemiology 3MPBH 404Biostatistics for Health and Biological Science3
MPBH 409 Biostatistics I 3MPBH 412Intro to Statistical Computing for Public Health2
MPBH 421 Biostatistics II 3MPP 401Analytical Tools in Public Policy3
MPP 402 Cost Beneﬁt Analysis 3MPP 403Public Budget and Finance3
MPP 405 Statistical Methods & Analysis for Public Policy I 3MPP 406Statistical Methods & Analysis Public Policy II3
SOCL 414 Statistical Methods Analysis I 3SOCL 415Statistical Methods of Analysis II3
STAT 403 SAS Program & Applied Statistics 3STAT 407Statistical Design3
STAT 408 Applied Regression Analysis 3STAT 410Categorical Data Analysis3
STAT 411 Applied Survival Analysis 3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
With MS Law & Policy Track
Course Title Hours
First Year
Fall
COMM 201 Media Theory and Criticism 3COMM 274Introduction to Cinema3 Hours6

--- Page 1168 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1199
SpringCOMM 135Intro to Video Production3 Hours3
Second Year
FallCOMM 130Intro to Audio Production3Media Studies Elective3 Hours6
Spring
COMM 200 Digital Communication and Society 3COMM 202Story for Film and Television3 Hours6
Third Year
FallCOMM 100SOC Career Prep Seminar1
COMM 203 
or COMM 324Topics in Cinema History 
or Film Genre3Production Elective3 Hours7
SpringProduction Elective3Advanced Production Elective3 Hours6
Fourth Year
Fall
COMM 350 Producing for Film & Digital Media 3COMM 394Film & Digital Media Internship3
COMM 406 Environmental Advocacy 3COMM 479Digital Sustainability3ENVS 402Sustainable Systems - Social Science
Perspectives3 Hours15
Spring
Major Capstone Course 3ENVS 401Sustainable Systems - Natural Science
Perspectives3 Hours6
Fifth Year
FallENVS 410Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy3
ENVS 411 Natural Resources and Land Use Law &
Policy3MS Elective Course3 Hours9
SpringENVS 412Water Law & Policy3
ENVS 413 Energy Law & Policy 3MS Elective Course3 Hours9 Total Hours73With MS Geographical Information Systems
Course Title Hours
First Year
Fall
COMM 201 Media Theory and Criticism 3COMM 274Introduction to Cinema3 Hours6
SpringCOMM 135Intro to Video Production3 Hours3
Second Year
FallCOMM 130Intro to Audio Production3Media Studies Elective3 Hours6
Spring
COMM 200 Digital Communication and Society 3COMM 202Story for Film and Television3 Hours6
Third Year
FallCOMM 100SOC Career Prep Seminar1
COMM 203 
or COMM 324Topics in Cinema History 
or Film Genre3Production Elective3 Hours7
SpringProduction Elective3Advanced Production Elective3 Hours6
Fourth Year
Fall
COMM 350 Producing for Film & Digital Media 3COMM 394Film & Digital Media Internship3
COMM 406 Environmental Advocacy 3COMM 479Digital Sustainability3ENVS 402Sustainable Systems - Social Science
Perspectives3 Hours15
Spring
Major Capstone Course 3ENVS 401Sustainable Systems - Natural Science
Perspectives3 Hours6
Fifth Year
FallENVS 480Introduction to Geographic Information
Systems3
ENVS 481 Advanced GIS Applications 3MS Elective Course3 Hours9
SpringENVS 482Remote Sensing3

--- Page 1169 ---
1200  Film and Digital Media: Film and Media Production Track/Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)
MS Elective Course 3MS Elective Course3 Hours9 Total Hours73
With MS Sustainability Assessment & Planning Track
Course Title Hours
First Year
Fall
COMM 201 Media Theory and Criticism 3COMM 274Introduction to Cinema3 Hours6
SpringCOMM 135Intro to Video Production3 Hours3
Second Year
FallCOMM 130Intro to Audio Production3Media Studies Elective3 Hours6
Spring
COMM 200 Digital Communication and Society 3COMM 202Story for Film and Television3 Hours6
Third Year
FallCOMM 100SOC Career Prep Seminar1
COMM 203 
or COMM 324Topics in Cinema History 
or Film Genre3Production Elective3 Hours7
SpringProduction Elective3Advanced Production Elective3 Hours6
Fourth Year
Fall
COMM 350 Producing for Film & Digital Media 3COMM 394Film & Digital Media Internship3
COMM 406 Environmental Advocacy 3COMM 479Digital Sustainability3ENVS 402Sustainable Systems - Social Science
Perspectives3 Hours15
Spring
Major Capstone Course 3ENVS 401Sustainable Systems - Natural Science
Perspectives3 Hours6
Fifth Year
FallENVS 451Introduction to Sustainability Concepts &
Impacts3ENVS 452 Sustainability Assessment & Reporting I 3MS Elective Course3 Hours9
SpringENVS 453Sustainability Assessment & Reporting II3
ENVS 454 Sustainability Plan Development &
Reporting3MS Elective Course3 Hours9 Total Hours73
With MS Sustainable Business Track
Course Title Hours
First Year
Fall
COMM 201 Media Theory and Criticism 3COMM 274Introduction to Cinema3 Hours6
SpringCOMM 135Intro to Video Production3 Hours3
Second Year
FallCOMM 130Intro to Audio Production3Media Studies Elective3 Hours6
Spring
COMM 200 Digital Communication and Society 3COMM 202Story for Film and Television3 Hours6
Third Year
FallCOMM 100SOC Career Prep Seminar1
COMM 203 
or COMM 324Topics in Cinema History 
or Film Genre3Production Elective3 Hours7
SpringProduction Elective3Advanced Production Elective3 Hours6
Fourth Year
Fall
COMM 350 Producing for Film & Digital Media 3COMM 394Film & Digital Media Internship3
COMM 406 Environmental Advocacy 3COMM 479Digital Sustainability3ENVS 402Sustainable Systems - Social Science
Perspectives3 Hours15
Spring
Major Capstone Course 3

--- Page 1170 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1201ENVS 401Sustainable Systems - Natural Science
Perspectives3 Hours6
Fifth Year
FallENVS 433Introduction to the Circular Economy3
ENVS 435 Ecological Economics 3MS Elective Course3 Hours9
SpringENVS 436Design for Circular & Sustainable Business3
ENVS 463 Sustainable Business Management 3MS Elective Course3 Hours9 Total Hours73
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as theyapproach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the

--- Page 1171 ---
1202  Film and Digital Media: Film and Media Production Track/International Affairs (BA/MA)
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•Develop fundamental knowledge and skills essential in media
production, exhibition, and distribution.•Connect theory, analysis, and hands-on work in the development of
original ideas in ﬁlm and digital media.
•Identify their aesthetic vision as a creator of media.
•Gain technical proﬁciency in audio and visual skills, and
specialization in advanced production skills.
•Articulate the foundational principles of natural and social sciences
and humanities essential to solving environmental problems.
•Critically evaluate the accuracy and credibility of information relating
to environmental topics.
•Employ knowledge and skills to design and implement solutions that
contribute to a just and sustainable world.
•Exemplify the values of environmental and social justice through
actions to care for our common home and one another.
SES Shared Learning Outcomes
All SES majors share the following Program Learning Objectives, in
addition to their unique major-speciﬁc Program Learning Objectives:
1. Articulate the foundational principles of natural and social sciences
and humanities essential to solving environmental problems.
2. Critically evaluate the accuracy and credibility of information relating to
environmental topics.
3. Employ knowledge and skills to design and implement solutions that
contribute to a just and sustainable world.
4. Exemplify the values of environmental and social justice through
actions to care for our common home and one another.
Film and Digital Media: Film and
Media Production Track/International
Affairs (BA/MA)
The growing interconnectedness of the world’s almost 200 countries,
termed globalization, and the rising impacts of foreign affairs on our
daily lives increasingly require individuals with advanced knowledge
of International Affairs. The Accelerated BA/MA in Film and Digital
Media: Film and Media Production Track and International Affairs
allows students to explore global problems and interactions from an
interdisciplinary perspective that makes use of eight Arts and Sciences
academic departments and four additional colleges. Students will
have the flexibility to tailor their program to ﬁt their individual interests.
Students can fulﬁll a capstone experience by participating in an
internship, taking a study abroad class, writing a paper for publication, or
writing a master’s thesis.
Loyola University Chicago and the City of Chicago together serve as the
ideal location for an MA in International Affairs: Loyola embodies a long
commitment to interdisciplinary education; and Chicago is consistently
ranked as one of the top ten global cities in the world. The program offers
a unique urban setting for students interested in the advanced study of
International Affairs.
The majority of full-time students are expected to ﬁnish the program
in 5 years, as opposed to the six years if both programs are pursued
separately. Undergraduate students from participating programs at
Loyola will be able to pursue an accelerated BA/MA in Film and Digital
Media: Film and Media Production Track and International Affairs.

--- Page 1172 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1203
Students will also be able to take graduate courses in the School of
Communication, the School of Education (International Education), the
School of Law, Parkinson School of Health Sciences and Public Health,
Quinlan School of Business, and the School of Social Work.
Related Programs
Major
•Film and Digital Media: Film and Media Production Track (BA)
(p. 831)
•Film and Digital Media: International Programming Track (BA)
(p. 833)
Combined
•Film and Digital Media: International Programming Track/
International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1214 )
Curriculum
For the BA, students will complete requirements for the Bachelor's
degree, and graduate level courses may be used as electives. For the MA,
students will take a total of ten classes (30 credit hours) to complete the
program: Four required core classes, including a capstone experience,
and an additional six elective classes, with no more than three offered by
a single department in the College of Arts & Sciences or another School
at Loyola.
Code Title Hours
BA RequirementsRequired CoursesCOMM 100 SOC Career Prep Seminar 1COMM 130Intro to Audio Production3
COMM 135 Intro to Video Production 3COMM 200Digital Communication and Society3
COMM 201 Media Theory and Criticism 3COMM 202Story for Film and Television 13
COMM 274 Introduction to Cinema 3COMM 350Producing for Film & Digital Media3
Production ElectivesChoose two from:6
COMM 205 Reporting Basics I: Writing and Interviewing 1COMM 207PhotojournalismCOMM 210 Principles of Public RelationsCOMM 211Principles of AdvertisingCOMM 232 Cinematography ICOMM 275Web Design and UsabilityCOMM 299 Themes in Film and Digital MediaCOMM 308Screen DirectingCOMM 310 Production DesignCOMM 326Screenwriting 1COMM 333 Cinematography IICOMM 337AD/PR Multimedia Commercial Production 2COMM 338 Narrative ProductionCOMM 339Video Documentary 2COMM 345 Student Agency 4COMM 357Programming Film & Media: Festivals, TV & DigitalCOMM 359 Advanced Post ProductionCOMM 373Digital Storytelling Abroad 2COMM 374 Special Topics: Film & Digital MediaCOMM 384Film & Digital Media Practicum 2COMM 405 Story Development and ProductionCOMM 425Digital Marketing and AnalyticsCOMP 125 Visual Information ProcessingCOMP 150Introduction to ComputingENGL 318 The Writing of FictionENGL 319Writing Creative NonﬁctionFNAR 132 Visual Communication IFNAR 219Photography: Digital ImagingFNAR 232 Visual Communication IIFNAR 233Digital Media DesignFNAR 234 Digital Media: VectorFNAR 332Visual Communication IIIFNAR 334 Motion DesignFNAR 383Interactive DesignMUSC 122 Introduction to Digital MusicMUSC 201Music Technology IMUSC 246 Composition ITHTR 204PlaywritingTHTR 252 Theatrical Design ITHTR 261Beginning ActingMedia Studies ElectivesChoose one course from:3
COMM 203 Topics in Cinema History 3COMM 324Film Genre 3Choose one course from COMM 203 or COMM 324 (if different topic
from above), or from the following list:3COMM 258Game StudiesCOMM 261 Social MediaCOMM 275Web Design and UsabilityCOMM 280 Media Technology & SocietyCOMM 322Guerilla MediaCOMM 323 Remixing CultureCOMM 360Digital Media EthicsCOMM 361 New Media Criticism 1ENGL 359High and Low CultureLITR 204 European FilmLITR 219African FilmLITR 244 Indian FilmLITR 264Italian Film GenreLITR 267 Italian Film HistoryLITR 284International FilmFNAR 365 History of PhotographyFNAR 390Art History: Methods and ResearchGERM 370 German Cinema (or program director's permission)Advanced Production3
Select one from the following list, if not already taken as a Production
Elective:COMM 232Cinematography ICOMM 308 Screen Directing

--- Page 1173 ---
1204  Film and Digital Media: Film and Media Production Track/International Affairs (BA/MA)COMM 310Production DesignCOMM 326 Screenwriting 1COMM 359Advanced Post ProductionInternshipRequires a minimum of 18 credit hours  completed and Junior or
Senior  standingCOMM 394 Film & Digital Media Internship 23CapstoneSelect one of the following. Courses already taken cannot also
satisfy this requirement.3COMM 338Narrative ProductionCOMM 339 Video Documentary 2COMM 388Film and Digital Media CapstoneInternational Affairs MA RequirementsCoreINTA 420 Comparative Political Systems 3INTA 430Theories of International Politics3
INTA 475 Political Analysis I 3Capstone Experience3
Select one of the following:INTA 470Fieldwork in PLSC-InternshipPLSC 499 Directed ReadingsPLSC 605Master's StudyElectives  (p. 1204 ) 518In addition to the four core classes, students will take an additional
six elective courses, with no more than three offered by a single
department in the College of Arts and Sciences or another School
at Loyola. The core INTA courses in Political Science do not count
toward this three-course total, and thus a student may take three
Political Science courses in addition to the three core (required)
courses.Total Hours73
1Writing Intensive  (p. 800)
2Satisﬁes  Engaged Learning  (p. 1417 ) requirement.
3May be repeated if different topic
4Inigo  (https://www.inigocomm.com/ )
5Two Graduate-level International Affairs courses must be taken
Senior Year. These courses can count as major electives or general
electives. These two courses double-count for International Affairs MA
requirements.
List of International Affairs MA Elective Courses
The participating programs that will contribute classes include: Global
Studies, History, Philosophy, Political Science, Psychology, Sociology,
and Theology, Criminal Justice & Criminology, as well as the Schools of
Communication, Education, Business, Law, Health Sciences and Public
Health, and Social Work.
Please note that the courses listed might not be offered every year and
new courses may be added to this list. Students should talk with the
Graduate Program Director if they want to take a course that is not on
the list of elective courses to see whether the course can serve as an
elective.College of Arts and Sciences
Code Title Hours
Criminal Justice and Criminology DepartmentCJC 416International Criminal Justice3
Methods CoursesCJC 403Research Methods and Program Evaluation3
CJC 404 Applied Data Analysis and Interpretation 4History DepartmentHIST 441 Women's & Gender History: Europe 3HIST 459Environmental History3
HIST 464 Transnational Urban History 3Methods CoursesHIST 483 Oral History: Method and Practice 3Modern Languages and Literatures DepartmentLanguage Research Tool: Although there is no language requirement,
students interested in honing their foreign language skills will have
the option of taking a 400-level language course (i.e., a course
beyond 101, 102, 103, and 104), and having that course count as one
of the six elective courses. Current language possibilities offered at
Loyola include Chinese, French, German, Italian, and Spanish.MLL also offers graduate-level courses in Spanish as part of their
master’s degree in Spanish. These courses are as follows and would
be open only to interested students with advanced writing, speaking,
and reading skills in Spanish. These courses are as follows:SPAN 405 Critical Methods (pan-Hispanic world) 3SPAN 490Hispanic Culture & Civilization (Latin American
ﬁlm, with a focus on human rights)3
Philosophy DepartmentPHIL 459Philosophy of Law3
PHIL 463 Virtue Ethics (includes non-Western philosophy) 3PHIL TBDCritical Race Theory (originally taught as a “special
topics” course; is being turned into a permanent
course)PHIL 480 Social & Political Philosophy (focuses on global
development on a regular basis)3Methods CoursesPHIL 400 Philosophy Research Tools 3Political Science DepartmentPLSC 421 Democratic Political Systems 3PLSC 422Authoritarian Political Systems3
PLSC 431 Formulation US Foreign Policy 3PLSC 432Comparative Foreign Policy Analysis3
PLSC 433 International Organization 3PLSC 435International Political Economics3
PLSC 436 International Conflict 3Methods CoursesPLSC 401 Intro to Research Design & Method 3PLSC 476Political Analysis II3
Psychology DepartmentPSYC 460Social Psychological Theory3
PSYC 461 Attitude and Attitude Change 3PSYC 474Research in Group Dynamics3
PSYC 484 Prejudice and Intergroup Relations 3Methods Courses

--- Page 1174 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1205
PSYC 486 Methods of Program Evaluation 3Sociology DepartmentSOCL 418 Demography 3SOCL 423Social Movements3
SOCL 426 Sociology of Gender 3SOCL 441Sociology of Religion3
SOCL 447 Sociology of Culture 3SOCL 461Race & Ethnicity3
Methods CoursesSOCL 410Logic of Sociological Inquiry3
SOCL 412 Qualitative Methods in Social Research 3SOCL 414Statistical Methods Analysis I3
SOCL 415 Statistical Methods of Analysis II 3Theology DepartmentTHEO 459 Contemporary Theology 1-12THEO 460Seminar in History of Theology1-12
THEO 464 Religion & Politics in Christian History 3THEO 470Foundations Crititical Issues Theological Ethics1-12
THEO 480 Seminar in Christian Ethics 1-12
School of Education (International Education)
Code Title Hours
ELPS 405 Introduction to Educational Policy Analysis 3ELPS 448International Higher Education3
ELPS 455 Comparative Education 3ELPS 540Seminar in the History of Education3
ELPS 550 Seminar on Globalization and Education 3ELPS 555Seminar Comparative Education3
School of Communication
Code Title Hours
COMM 401 Foundations of Global Strategic Communication 3COMM 402Organizational Leadership and Change
Management3
COMM 422 Global and Multicultural Audiences and
Stakeholders3
School of Social Work
Code Title Hours
SOWK 502 Power, Oppression, Privilege, and Social Justice 3SOWK 654Global Social Work: Reflective Practice for Justice
and Peace3
SOWK 730 Immigration Dynamics and U.S. Social Policy 3SOWK 731Social Work Practice with Refugees and
Immigrants3
SOWK 732 Migration, Social Justice, and Human Rights 3SOWK 733North American Migration Dynamics, Challenges &
Opportunity1-3
School of Law 
Code Title Hours
LAW 176 International Trade Law 11-3LAW 371International Business Trans 11-3
LAW 372 International Law and Practice 3LAW 388Global Access to Medicine: A Patent Perspective3LAW 459 Intro to English Legal Profession 1LAW 568European Union Law 11-3
1Explanatory note about 1, 2, 3, and variable credit hour courses from
the School of Law: “For the law courses showing a range of hours (e.g.,
1-3 credit hours), students have the option to choose the number of
credits for enrollment within the range. For students opting for the
higher credits (i.e., enrollment in 3 credit hours rather than 1 credit hour
would require additional assignments and/or an examination). If the
MA students in these courses need to be enrolled in 3 credit hours,
the following notation can be included with the course listing:  ‘MA
students must choose the 3 credit option for enrollment in this course’. ”
Please note that courses to be included in this MA program will require
students choosing the 3-credit option.
School of Law - Classes Offered at the John Felice Rome Center
Code Title Hours
PLAW 101 Comparative and Ethical Lawyering for the Rule of
Law3PLAW 102History, Theory and Practice of Rule of Law for
Development3
PLAW 103 Theory and Practice of Assessments in Rule of
Law Advising2PLAW 104International Development Architecture3
PLAW 105 Sustainable Development Through International
Commerce and Investment2PLAW 106Design of Rule of Law Programs and Proposal
Preparation2
PLAW 107 Rule of Law in Conflict Prevention and
Peacebuilding2PLAW 108Legal Systems and Methods3
PLAW 250 Research and Writing on the Rule of Law 3PLAW 907Rule of Law Project Management, Monitoring &
Evaluation3
Parkinson School of Health Sciences and Public Health
Code Title Hours
MPBH 400 Determinants of Population Health 3MPBH 414Introduction to Global Health3
MPBH 417 Global Maternal and Child Health 3MPBH 422Population Health Planning & Management3
MPBH 424 Health Economics and Healthcare Financing 3MPBH 432Health Impact Assessment3
Quinlan School of Business
Code Title Hours
ECON 424 International Business Economics 3FINC 455International Financial Management3
HRER 422 Global HR Management 3HRER 502Global Employment Relations3
MARK 465 International Marketing 3MARK 461Research Methods in Marketing3
MGMT 446 International Business Ethics 3SCMG 486Global Logistics3

--- Page 1175 ---
1206  Film and Digital Media: Film and Media Production Track/International Affairs (BA/MA)
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
First Year
Fall
COMM 201 Media Theory and Criticism 3COMM 274Introduction to Cinema3 Hours6
SpringCOMM 135Intro to Video Production3 Hours3
Second Year
FallCOMM 130Intro to Audio Production3Media Studies Elective3 Hours6
Spring
COMM 200 Digital Communication and Society 3COMM 202Story for Film and Television3 Hours6
Third Year
FallCOMM 100SOC Career Prep Seminar1
COMM 203 
or COMM 324Topics in Cinema History 
or Film Genre3Production Elective3 Hours7
SpringProduction Elective3Advanced Production Elective3 Hours6
Fourth Year
Fall
COMM 350 Producing for Film & Digital Media 3COMM 394Film & Digital Media Internship3Two (2) International Affairs Courses  16 Hours12
Spring
Major Capstone Course 3Two (2) International Affairs Courses  16 Hours9
Fifth Year
FallThree (3) International Affairs Courses  19 Hours9SpringThree (3) International Affairs Courses  19 Hours9 Total Hours73
1Students are expected to take two graduate-level courses in each
semester of their senior year and a total of six graduate-level courses
in their ﬁfth year. There is no required course sequence, but we strongly
suggest that students ﬁrst take the required courses ( PLSC 420
Comparative Political Systems , PLSC 430 Theories of International
Politics , and PLSC 475 Political Analysis I ) whenever they are offered
before taking elective courses.
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as

--- Page 1176 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1207
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progressthrough the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
Students will graduate from our program having achieved:
•a foundation for understanding and critiquing research related to
International Affairs, including methods training that leverages both
qualitative and quantitative data [International Affairs]

--- Page 1177 ---
1208  Film and Digital Media: International Programming Track/Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)
•knowledge of the principal theories of comparative politics and
international relations, as well as the key areas of research in these
two subﬁelds [International Affairs]
•an interdisciplinary understanding and appreciation of International
Affairs through coursework available within eight different
departments in the College of Arts and Sciences and four additional
Schools at Loyola [International Affairs]
•enhanced writing and critical thinking skills and dispositions through
class-based projects and a capstone experience [International Affairs]
•strengthened methods, research, or writing skills tailored to students
interests with advanced methods courses, language training, or the
writing of a master’s thesis. [International Affairs]
•Develop fundamental knowledge and skills essential in media
production, exhibition, and distribution. [Film and Digital Media: Film
and Media Production Track]
•Connect theory, analysis, and hands-on work in the development of
original ideas in ﬁlm and digital media. [Film and Digital Media: Film
and Media Production Track]
•Identify their aesthetic vision as a creator of media. [Film and Digital
Media: Film and Media Production Track]
•Gain technical proﬁciency in audio and visual skills, and
specialization in advanced production skills. [Film and Digital Media:
Film and Media Production Track]
Film and Digital Media: International
Programming Track/Environmental
Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)
Loyola’s School of Communication, in partnership with the School of
Environmental Sustainability, offers a program that enables students
to earn an undergraduate and graduate degree in environmental
communication in ﬁve years.
The Accelerated Bachelor's to Master's program allows SOC students to
earn their undergraduate degree in their declared major, plus a master’s
degree in Environmental Science and Sustainability.
Similarly, SES students can earn their undergraduate degree in
their declared major, while also earning a master’s degree from the
SOC in either the Digital Media and Storytelling or Global Strategic
Communication graduate programs.
The two schools developed the Accelerated Bachelor's to
Master's program to train environmental scientists to be better
communicators, and communication professionals to better understand
environmental science.
These 4+1 programs are uniquely applied and strongly interdisciplinary.
They integrate basic science concepts, communication theory and
practice, and socio-cultural dimensions to cultivate the interdisciplinary
problem-solving and communication skills necessary for developing
sustainable solutions. The goals of these programs are to:
•Educate students across the sciences, social sciences and
humanities, providing knowledge and interdisciplinary perspectives
needed to effectively address complex environmental problems
through grounding in solid scientiﬁc understanding of ecosystem
operation.
•Develop skills in environmental and sustainability sciences including
GIS, sustainability tracking, and environmental communicationsas well as important professional skills, such as interdisciplinary
thinking, systems thinking, research design, data collection, data
analysis, research ethics, technical writing, and communication.
•Improve communication skills by teaching students how to tell
stories through enhanced speaking and presentation methods, better
writing, video production, recording podcasts, developing blogs and
social media.
•Prepare students for advancement in careers in the public and private
sectors, including in government agencies, consulting ﬁrms, media
organizations, businesses, and not-for-proﬁt organizations.
For more information, email:   LoyolaSOC@luc.edu
Related Programs
Major
•Film and Digital Media: Film and Media Production Track (BA)
(p. 831)
Combined
•Film and Digital Media: Film and Media Production Track/
Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)  (p. 1196 )
•Film and Digital Media: International Programming Track/
International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1214 )
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
BA RequirementsSOC Foundation CoursesCOMM 100 SOC Career Prep Seminar 1COMM 200Digital Communication and Society3
COMM 201 Media Theory and Criticism 3COMM 202Story for Film and Television3
COMM 274 Introduction to Cinema 3COMM 350Producing for Film & Digital Media3
Required Production Course 3Select one of the following:COMM 130 Intro to Audio ProductionCOMM 135Intro to Video ProductionCOMM 275 Web Design and UsabilityRequired Media Studies CourseSelect one of the following: 3COMM 203Topics in Cinema HistoryCOMM 324 Film GenreMedia Studies Electives9
Students select three (3) Media Studies Electives from the list below
(p. 1209 )ElectivesSelect two (2) courses from Production above (not already taken) or
from Media Studies Electives and Electives lists below  (p. 1209 )6Internship & CapstoneCOMM 394 Film & Digital Media Internship 3COMM 357Programming Film & Media: Festivals, TV & Digital3or COMM 388Film and Digital Media Capstone
MS RequirementsRequired MS Courses  16

--- Page 1178 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1209
COMM 406 Environmental AdvocacyCOMM 479Digital SustainabilityENVS 401 Sustainable Systems - Natural Science
PerspectivesENVS 402Sustainable Systems - Social Science PerspectivesChoose One of Four Concentrations:  29-12Environmental Law & PolicyENVS 410 Introduction to Environmental Law & PolicyENVS 411Natural Resources and Land Use Law & PolicyENVS 412 Water Law & PolicyENVS 413Energy Law & PolicyGeographic Information SystemsENVS 480Introduction to Geographic Information SystemsENVS 481 Advanced GIS ApplicationsENVS 482Remote SensingSustainable Assessment and PlanningENVS 451Introduction to Sustainability Concepts & ImpactsENVS 452 Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IENVS 453Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IIENVS 454 Sustainability Plan Development & ReportingSustainable BusinessENVS 433 Introduction to the Circular EconomyENVS 435Ecological EconomicsENVS 436 Design for Circular & Sustainable BusinessENVS 463Sustainable Business ManagementNatural Science and Quantitative Sustainable Society and Business
Electives  (p. 1210 ) 36-9Students will take at least two courses from the list of electivesTotal Hours67
1Courses to be taken as an undergrad in student's Senior year.
2Begin MS program full-time at the start with the concentration work.
3Students choosing the Geographical Information Systems track must
take an additional elective course to meet a total of 24 credit hours for
the MS.
BA Electives
Media Studies 
A max of 3 credits from non-COMM. Other courses can be allowed with
the program director's permission.
Code Title Hours
COMM 203 Topics in Cinema History 3COMM 258Game Studies3
COMM 261 Social Media 3COMM 280Media Technology & Society3
COMM 322 Guerilla Media 3COMM 323Remixing Culture3
COMM 324 Film Genre 3COMM 360Digital Media Ethics3
COMM 361 New Media Criticism 3ENGL 359High and Low Culture3
FNAR 365 History of Photography 3FNAR 390Art History: Methods and Research3GERM 370 German Cinema 3LITR 204European Film3
LITR 219 African Film 3LITR 244Indian Film3
LITR 264 Italian Film Genre 3LITR 267Italian Film History3
LITR 284 International Film 3
Electives
In addition to the list below, students can take courses from the Media
Studies list for elective credit.
Code Title Hours
COMM 205 Reporting Basics I: Writing and Interviewing 3COMM 207Photojournalism3
COMM 210 Principles of Public Relations 3COMM 211Principles of Advertising3
COMM 232 Cinematography I 3COMM 275Web Design and Usability3
COMM 299 Themes in Film and Digital Media 3COMM 310Production Design3
COMM 326 Screenwriting 3COMM 333Cinematography II3
COMM 337 AD/PR Multimedia Commercial Production 3COMM 338Narrative Production3
COMM 339 Video Documentary 3COMM 345Student Agency3
COMM 357 Programming Film & Media: Festivals, TV & Digital 3COMM 359Advanced Post Production3
COMM 373 Digital Storytelling Abroad 3COMM 374Special Topics: Film & Digital Media3
COMM 384 Film & Digital Media Practicum 1-3COMM 405Story Development and Production3
COMM 425 Digital Marketing and Analytics 3COMP 125Visual Information Processing3
COMP 150 Introduction to Computing 3ENGL 318The Writing of Fiction3
ENGL 319 Writing Creative Nonﬁction 3FNAR 132Visual Communication I3
FNAR 219 Photography: Digital Imaging 3FNAR 233Digital Media Design3
FNAR 234 Digital Media: Vector 3FNAR 332Visual Communication III3
FNAR 334 Motion Design 3FNAR 383Interactive Design3
MUSC 122 Introduction to Digital Music 3MUSC 201Music Technology I3
MUSC 246 Composition I 3THTR 204Playwriting3
THTR 252 Theatrical Design I 3THTR 261Beginning Acting3

--- Page 1179 ---
1210  Film and Digital Media: International Programming Track/Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)
MS Natural Science and Quantitative & Sustainable
Society and Business Electives
Code Title Hours
BIOL 470 Biostats & Exp Design Lec/Lab 4ENVS 420Conservation Biology3
ENVS 422 Invasive Species 3ENVS 425Sustainable Agriculture3
ENVS 426 Agroecosystems 3ENVS 427Food Systems Analysis3
ENVS 430 Restoration Ecology 3ENVS 438Climate Change and Human Health3
ENVS 469 Field Ornithology 3ENVS 484Conservation Economics3
ENVS 487 Principles of Ecotoxicology 3ENVS 4883
ENVS 489 Ecological Risk Assessment 3MPBH 401Environmental Health3
MPBH 403 Introduction to Epidemiology 3MPBH 404Biostatistics for Health and Biological Science3
MPBH 409 Biostatistics I 3MPBH 412Intro to Statistical Computing for Public Health2
MPBH 421 Biostatistics II 3MPP 401Analytical Tools in Public Policy3
MPP 402 Cost Beneﬁt Analysis 3MPP 403Public Budget and Finance3
MPP 405 Statistical Methods & Analysis for Public Policy I 3MPP 406Statistical Methods & Analysis Public Policy II3
SOCL 414 Statistical Methods Analysis I 3SOCL 415Statistical Methods of Analysis II3
STAT 403 SAS Program & Applied Statistics 3STAT 407Statistical Design3
STAT 408 Applied Regression Analysis 3STAT 410Categorical Data Analysis3
STAT 411 Applied Survival Analysis 3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
With MS Law & Policy Track 
Course Title Hours
First Year
Fall
COMM 274 Introduction to Cinema 3COMM 130 
or COMM 135 
or COMM 275Intro to Audio Production 
or Intro to Video Production 
or Web Design and Usability3 Hours6
SpringCOMM 201Media Theory and Criticism3 Hours3Second Year
FallCOMM 200Digital Communication and Society3COMM 202Story for Film and Television3 Hours6
SpringCOMM 203 
or COMM 324Topics in Cinema History 
or Film Genre3 Hours3
Third Year
Fall
Media Studies Elective 3Media Studies Elective3COMM 100SOC Career Prep Seminar1 Hours7
Spring
COMM 350 Producing for Film & Digital Media 3COMM 394Film & Digital Media Internship3 Hours6
Fourth Year
FallMedia Studies Elective3
COMM 479 
or COMM 406Digital Sustainability 
or Environmental Advocacy3ENVS 402Sustainable Systems - Social Science
Perspectives3 Hours9
SpringCOMM 357 
or COMM 388Programming Film & Media: Festivals, TV &
Digital 
or Film and Digital Media Capstone3
COMM 479 
or COMM 406Digital Sustainability 
or Environmental Advocacy3ENVS 401Sustainable Systems - Natural Science
Perspectives3 Hours9
Fifth Year
FallENVS 410Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy3
ENVS 411 Natural Resources and Land Use Law &
Policy3MS Major Elective3 Hours9
SpringENVS 412Water Law & Policy3
ENVS 413 Energy Law & Policy 3MS Major Elective3 Hours9 Total Hours67

--- Page 1180 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1211
With Geographical Information Systems
Course Title Hours
First Year
Fall
COMM 274 Introduction to Cinema 3COMM 130 
or COMM 135 
or COMM 275Intro to Audio Production 
or Intro to Video Production 
or Web Design and Usability3 Hours6
SpringCOMM 201Media Theory and Criticism3 Hours3
Second Year
FallCOMM 200Digital Communication and Society3COMM 202Story for Film and Television3 Hours6
SpringCOMM 203 
or COMM 324Topics in Cinema History 
or Film Genre3 Hours3
Third Year
Fall
Media Studies Elective 3Media Studies Elective3COMM 100SOC Career Prep Seminar1 Hours7
Spring
COMM 350 Producing for Film & Digital Media 3COMM 394Film & Digital Media Internship3 Hours6
Fourth Year
FallMedia Studies Elective3
COMM 479 
or COMM 406Digital Sustainability 
or Environmental Advocacy3ENVS 402Sustainable Systems - Social Science
Perspectives3 Hours9
SpringCOMM 357 
or COMM 388Programming Film & Media: Festivals, TV &
Digital 
or Film and Digital Media Capstone3
COMM 479 
or COMM 406Digital Sustainability 
or Environmental Advocacy3ENVS 401Sustainable Systems - Natural Science
Perspectives3 Hours9
Fifth Year
FallENVS 480Introduction to Geographic Information
Systems3
ENVS 481 Advanced GIS Applications 3MS Major Elective3 Hours9
SpringENVS 482Remote Sensing3
MS Major Elective 3MS Major Elective3 Hours9 Total Hours67
With Sustainable Assessment & Planning
Course Title Hours
First Year
Fall
COMM 274 Introduction to Cinema 3COMM 130 
or COMM 135 
or COMM 275Intro to Audio Production 
or Intro to Video Production 
or Web Design and Usability3 Hours6
SpringCOMM 201Media Theory and Criticism3 Hours3
Second Year
FallCOMM 200Digital Communication and Society3COMM 202Story for Film and Television3 Hours6
SpringCOMM 203 
or COMM 324Topics in Cinema History 
or Film Genre3 Hours3
Third Year
Fall
Media Studies Elective 3Media Studies Elective3COMM 100SOC Career Prep Seminar1 Hours7
Spring
COMM 350 Producing for Film & Digital Media 3COMM 394Film & Digital Media Internship3 Hours6
Fourth Year
FallMedia Studies Elective3
COMM 479 
or COMM 406Digital Sustainability 
or Environmental Advocacy3ENVS 402Sustainable Systems - Social Science
Perspectives3 Hours9
SpringCOMM 357 
or COMM 388Programming Film & Media: Festivals, TV &
Digital 
or Film and Digital Media Capstone3

--- Page 1181 ---
1212  Film and Digital Media: International Programming Track/Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)
COMM 479 
or COMM 406Digital Sustainability 
or Environmental Advocacy3ENVS 401Sustainable Systems - Natural Science
Perspectives3 Hours9
Fifth Year
FallENVS 451Introduction to Sustainability Concepts &
Impacts3
ENVS 452 Sustainability Assessment & Reporting I 3MS Major Elective3 Hours9
SpringENVS 453Sustainability Assessment & Reporting II3
ENVS 454 Sustainability Plan Development &
Reporting3MS Major Elective3 Hours9 Total Hours67
With Sustainable Business
Course Title Hours
First Year
Fall
COMM 274 Introduction to Cinema 3COMM 130 
or COMM 135 
or COMM 275Intro to Audio Production 
or Intro to Video Production 
or Web Design and Usability3 Hours6
SpringCOMM 201Media Theory and Criticism3 Hours3
Second Year
FallCOMM 200Digital Communication and Society3COMM 202Story for Film and Television3 Hours6
SpringCOMM 203 
or COMM 324Topics in Cinema History 
or Film Genre3 Hours3
Third Year
Fall
Media Studies Elective 3Media Studies Elective3COMM 100SOC Career Prep Seminar1 Hours7
Spring
COMM 350 Producing for Film & Digital Media 3COMM 394Film & Digital Media Internship3 Hours6Fourth Year
FallMedia Studies Elective3
COMM 479 
or COMM 406Digital Sustainability 
or Environmental Advocacy3ENVS 402Sustainable Systems - Social Science
Perspectives3 Hours9
SpringCOMM 357 
or COMM 388Programming Film & Media: Festivals, TV &
Digital 
or Film and Digital Media Capstone3
COMM 479 
or COMM 406Digital Sustainability 
or Environmental Advocacy3ENVS 401Sustainable Systems - Natural Science
Perspectives3 Hours9
Fifth Year
FallENVS 433Introduction to the Circular Economy3
ENVS 435 Ecological Economics 3MS Major Elective3 Hours9
SpringENVS 436Design for Circular & Sustainable Business3
ENVS 463 Sustainable Business Management 3MS Major Elective3 Hours9 Total Hours67
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit

--- Page 1182 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1213
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code thatindicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students

--- Page 1183 ---
1214  Film and Digital Media: International Programming Track/International Affairs (BA/MA)
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•Develop fundamental knowledge and skills essential in media
production, exhibition, and distribution.
•Connect theory, analysis, and hands-on work in the development of
original ideas in ﬁlm and digital media.
•Identify their aesthetic vision as a creator of media.
•Gain technical proﬁciency in audio and visual skills, and
specialization in advanced production skills.
•Articulate the foundational principles of natural and social sciences
and humanities essential to solving environmental problems.
•Critically evaluate the accuracy and credibility of information relating
to environmental topics.
•Employ knowledge and skills to design and implement solutions that
contribute to a just and sustainable world.
•Exemplify the values of environmental and social justice through
actions to care for our common home and one another.
SES Shared Learning Outcomes
All SES majors share the following Program Learning Objectives, in
addition to their unique major-speciﬁc Program Learning Objectives:
1. Articulate the foundational principles of natural and social sciences
and humanities essential to solving environmental problems.
2. Critically evaluate the accuracy and credibility of information relating to
environmental topics.
3. Employ knowledge and skills to design and implement solutions that
contribute to a just and sustainable world.
4. Exemplify the values of environmental and social justice through
actions to care for our common home and one another.
Film and Digital Media: International
Programming Track/International
Affairs (BA/MA)
The growing interconnectedness of the world’s almost 200 countries,
termed globalization, and the rising impacts of foreign affairs on our
daily lives increasingly require individuals with advanced knowledge
of International Affairs. The Accelerated BA/MA in Film and Digital
Media: International Programming Track and International Affairs
allows students to explore global problems and interactions from an
interdisciplinary perspective that makes use of eight Arts and Sciences
academic departments and four additional colleges. Students will
have the flexibility to tailor their program to ﬁt their individual interests.Students can fulﬁll a capstone experience by participating in an
internship, taking a study abroad class, writing a paper for publication, or
writing a master’s thesis.
Loyola University Chicago and the City of Chicago together serve as the
ideal location for an MA in International Affairs: Loyola embodies a long
commitment to interdisciplinary education; and Chicago is consistently
ranked as one of the top ten global cities in the world. The program offers
a unique urban setting for students interested in the advanced study of
International Affairs.
The majority of full-time students are expected to ﬁnish the program
in 5 years, as opposed to the six years if both programs are pursued
separately. Undergraduate students from participating programs at
Loyola will be able to pursue an accelerated BA/MA in Film and Digital
Media: International Programming Track and International Affairs.
Students will also be able to take graduate courses in the School of
Communication, the School of Education (International Education), the
School of Law, Parkinson School of Health Sciences and Public Health,
Quinlan School of Business, and the School of Social Work.
Related Programs
Major
•Film and Digital Media: Film and Media Production Track (BA)
(p. 831)
•Film and Digital Media: International Programming Track (BA)
(p. 833)
Combined
•Film and Digital Media: Film and Media Production Track/
International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1202 )
Curriculum
For the BA, students will complete requirements for the Bachelor's
degree, and graduate level courses may be used as electives. For the MA,
students will take a total of ten classes (30 credit hours) to complete the
program: Four required core classes, including a capstone experience,
and an additional six elective classes, with no more than three offered by
a single department in the College of Arts & Sciences or another School
at Loyola.
Code Title Hours
BA RequirementsRequired CoursesCOMM 100 SOC Career Prep Seminar 1COMM 200Digital Communication and Society3
COMM 201 Media Theory and Criticism 3COMM 202Story for Film and Television 13
COMM 274 Introduction to Cinema 3COMM 350Producing for Film & Digital Media3
Required Production CourseSelect one of the following:3
COMM 130 Intro to Audio ProductionCOMM 135Intro to Video ProductionCOMM 275 Web Design and UsabilityMedia Studies Required CourseSelect one of the following: 3

--- Page 1184 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1215COMM 203Topics in Cinema HistoryCOMM 324 Film GenreMedia Studies ElectivesSelect three of the following: 9COMM 203Topics in Cinema History 3COMM 258 Game StudiesCOMM 261Social MediaCOMM 280 Media Technology & SocietyCOMM 322Guerilla MediaCOMM 323 Remixing CultureCOMM 324Film Genre 3COMM 360 Digital Media EthicsCOMM 361New Media Criticism 1ENGL 359 High and Low CultureFNAR 365History of PhotographyFNAR 390 Art History: Methods and ResearchGERM 370German CinemaLITR 204 European FilmLITR 219African FilmLITR 244 Indian FilmLITR 264Italian Film GenreLITR 267 Italian Film HistoryLITR 284International Filmor program director's permissionElectivesSelect two courses from Production or Media Studies above, or from
the list below6COMM 205Reporting Basics I: Writing and Interviewing 1COMM 207 PhotojournalismCOMM 210Principles of Public RelationsCOMM 211 Principles of AdvertisingCOMM 232Cinematography ICOMM 275 Web Design and UsabilityCOMM 299Themes in Film and Digital MediaCOMM 308 Screen DirectingCOMM 310Production DesignCOMM 326 Screenwriting 1COMM 333Cinematography IICOMM 337 AD/PR Multimedia Commercial Production 2COMM 338Narrative ProductionCOMM 339 Video Documentary 2COMM 345Student Agency 4COMM 357 Programming Film & Media: Festivals, TV & DigitalCOMM 359Advanced Post ProductionCOMM 373 Digital Storytelling Abroad 2COMM 374Special Topics: Film & Digital Media 3COMM 384 Film & Digital Media Practicum 2COMM 405Story Development and ProductionCOMM 425 Digital Marketing and AnalyticsCOMP 125Visual Information ProcessingCOMP 150 Introduction to ComputingENGL 318The Writing of FictionENGL 319 Writing Creative NonﬁctionFNAR 132Visual Communication IFNAR 219 Photography: Digital ImagingFNAR 233Digital Media DesignFNAR 234 Digital Media: VectorFNAR 332Visual Communication IIIFNAR 334 Motion DesignFNAR 383Interactive DesignMUSC 122 Introduction to Digital MusicMUSC 201Music Technology IMUSC 246 Composition ITHTR 204PlaywritingTHTR 252 Theatrical Design ITHTR 261Beginning ActingInternshipRequires a minimum of 18 credit hours  completed and Junior or
Senior  standingCOMM 394 Film & Digital Media Internship 23CapstoneSelect one of the following: 3COMM 357Programming Film & Media: Festivals, TV & DigitalCOMM 388 Film and Digital Media CapstoneInternational Affairs MA RequirementsCoreINTA 420Comparative Political Systems3
INTA 430 Theories of International Politics 3INTA 475Political Analysis I3
Capstone Experience 3Select one of the following:INTA 470 Fieldwork in PLSC-InternshipPLSC 499Directed ReadingsPLSC 605 Master's StudyElectives  (p. 1215 ) 518In addition to the four core classes, students will take an additional
six elective courses, with no more than three offered by a single
department in the College of Arts and Sciences or another School
at Loyola. The core INTA courses in Political Science do not count
toward this three-course total, and thus a student may take three
Political Science courses in addition to the three core (required)
courses.Total Hours73
1Writing Intensive  (p. 800)
2Satisﬁes  Engaged Learning  (p. 1417 ) requirement
3May be repeated if different topic
4Inigo  (https://www.inigocomm.com/ )
5Two Graduate-level International Affairs courses must be taken
Senior Year. These courses can count as major electives or general
electives. These two courses double-count for International Affairs MA
requirements.
List of International Affairs MA Elective Courses
The participating programs that will contribute classes include: Global
Studies, History, Philosophy, Political Science, Psychology, Sociology,
and Theology, Criminal Justice & Criminology, as well as the Schools of

--- Page 1185 ---
1216  Film and Digital Media: International Programming Track/International Affairs (BA/MA)
Communication, Education, Business, Law, Health Sciences and Public
Health, and Social Work.
Please note that the courses listed might not be offered every year and
new courses may be added to this list. Students should talk with the
Graduate Program Director if they want to take a course that is not on
the list of elective courses to see whether the course can serve as an
elective.
College of Arts and Sciences
Code Title Hours
Criminal Justice and Criminology DepartmentCJC 416International Criminal Justice3
Methods CoursesCJC 403Research Methods and Program Evaluation3
CJC 404 Applied Data Analysis and Interpretation 4History DepartmentHIST 441 Women's & Gender History: Europe 3HIST 459Environmental History3
HIST 464 Transnational Urban History 3Methods CoursesHIST 483 Oral History: Method and Practice 3Modern Languages and Literatures DepartmentLanguage Research Tool: Although there is no language requirement,
students interested in honing their foreign language skills will have
the option of taking a 400-level language course (i.e., a course
beyond 101, 102, 103, and 104), and having that course count as one
of the six elective courses. Current language possibilities offered at
Loyola include Chinese, French, German, Italian, and Spanish.MLL also offers graduate-level courses in Spanish as part of their
master’s degree in Spanish. These courses are as follows and would
be open only to interested students with advanced writing, speaking,
and reading skills in Spanish. These courses are as follows:SPAN 405 Critical Methods (pan-Hispanic world) 3SPAN 490Hispanic Culture & Civilization (Latin American
ﬁlm, with a focus on human rights)3
Philosophy DepartmentPHIL 459Philosophy of Law3
PHIL 463 Virtue Ethics (includes non-Western philosophy) 3PHIL TBDCritical Race Theory (originally taught as a “special
topics” course; is being turned into a permanent
course)PHIL 480 Social & Political Philosophy (focuses on global
development on a regular basis)3Methods CoursesPHIL 400 Philosophy Research Tools 3Political Science DepartmentPLSC 421 Democratic Political Systems 3PLSC 422Authoritarian Political Systems3
PLSC 431 Formulation US Foreign Policy 3PLSC 432Comparative Foreign Policy Analysis3
PLSC 433 International Organization 3PLSC 435International Political Economics3
PLSC 436 International Conflict 3Methods CoursesPLSC 401 Intro to Research Design & Method 3PLSC 476Political Analysis II3
Psychology DepartmentPSYC 460Social Psychological Theory3
PSYC 461 Attitude and Attitude Change 3PSYC 474Research in Group Dynamics3
PSYC 484 Prejudice and Intergroup Relations 3Methods CoursesPSYC 486 Methods of Program Evaluation 3Sociology DepartmentSOCL 418 Demography 3SOCL 423Social Movements3
SOCL 426 Sociology of Gender 3SOCL 441Sociology of Religion3
SOCL 447 Sociology of Culture 3SOCL 461Race & Ethnicity3
Methods CoursesSOCL 410Logic of Sociological Inquiry3
SOCL 412 Qualitative Methods in Social Research 3SOCL 414Statistical Methods Analysis I3
SOCL 415 Statistical Methods of Analysis II 3Theology DepartmentTHEO 459 Contemporary Theology 1-12THEO 460Seminar in History of Theology1-12
THEO 464 Religion & Politics in Christian History 3THEO 470Foundations Crititical Issues Theological Ethics1-12
THEO 480 Seminar in Christian Ethics 1-12
School of Education (International Education)
Code Title Hours
ELPS 405 Introduction to Educational Policy Analysis 3ELPS 448International Higher Education3
ELPS 455 Comparative Education 3ELPS 540Seminar in the History of Education3
ELPS 550 Seminar on Globalization and Education 3ELPS 555Seminar Comparative Education3
School of Communication
Code Title Hours
COMM 401 Foundations of Global Strategic Communication 3COMM 402Organizational Leadership and Change
Management3
COMM 422 Global and Multicultural Audiences and
Stakeholders3
School of Social Work
Code Title Hours
SOWK 502 Power, Oppression, Privilege, and Social Justice 3SOWK 654Global Social Work: Reflective Practice for Justice
and Peace3
SOWK 730 Immigration Dynamics and U.S. Social Policy 3SOWK 731Social Work Practice with Refugees and
Immigrants3
SOWK 732 Migration, Social Justice, and Human Rights 3

--- Page 1186 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1217SOWK 733North American Migration Dynamics, Challenges &
Opportunity1-3
School of Law 
Code Title Hours
LAW 176 International Trade Law 11-3LAW 371International Business Trans 11-3
LAW 372 International Law and Practice 3LAW 388Global Access to Medicine: A Patent Perspective3
LAW 459 Intro to English Legal Profession 1LAW 568European Union Law 11-3
1Explanatory note about 1, 2, 3, and variable credit hour courses from
the School of Law: “For the law courses showing a range of hours (e.g.,
1-3 credit hours), students have the option to choose the number of
credits for enrollment within the range. For students opting for the
higher credits (i.e., enrollment in 3 credit hours rather than 1 credit hour
would require additional assignments and/or an examination). If the
MA students in these courses need to be enrolled in 3 credit hours,
the following notation can be included with the course listing:  ‘MA
students must choose the 3 credit option for enrollment in this course’. ”
Please note that courses to be included in this MA program will require
students choosing the 3-credit option.
School of Law - Classes Offered at the John Felice Rome Center
Code Title Hours
PLAW 101 Comparative and Ethical Lawyering for the Rule of
Law3PLAW 102History, Theory and Practice of Rule of Law for
Development3
PLAW 103 Theory and Practice of Assessments in Rule of
Law Advising2PLAW 104International Development Architecture3
PLAW 105 Sustainable Development Through International
Commerce and Investment2PLAW 106Design of Rule of Law Programs and Proposal
Preparation2
PLAW 107 Rule of Law in Conflict Prevention and
Peacebuilding2PLAW 108Legal Systems and Methods3
PLAW 250 Research and Writing on the Rule of Law 3PLAW 907Rule of Law Project Management, Monitoring &
Evaluation3
Parkinson School of Health Sciences and Public Health
Code Title Hours
MPBH 400 Determinants of Population Health 3MPBH 414Introduction to Global Health3
MPBH 417 Global Maternal and Child Health 3MPBH 422Population Health Planning & Management3
MPBH 424 Health Economics and Healthcare Financing 3MPBH 432Health Impact Assessment3
Quinlan School of Business
Code Title Hours
ECON 424 International Business Economics 3FINC 455International Financial Management3HRER 422 Global HR Management 3HRER 502Global Employment Relations3
MARK 465 International Marketing 3MARK 461Research Methods in Marketing3
MGMT 446 International Business Ethics 3SCMG 486Global Logistics3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
First Year
Fall
COMM 274 Introduction to Cinema 3COMM 130 
or COMM 135 
or COMM 275Intro to Audio Production 
or Intro to Video Production 
or Web Design and Usability3 Hours6
SpringCOMM 201Media Theory and Criticism3 Hours3
Second Year
FallCOMM 200Digital Communication and Society3COMM 202Story for Film and Television3 Hours6
SpringCOMM 203 
or COMM 324Topics in Cinema History 
or Film Genre3 Hours3
Third Year
Fall
Media Studies Elective 3Media Studies Elective3COMM 100SOC Career Prep Seminar1 Hours7
Spring
COMM 350 Producing for Film & Digital Media 3COMM 394Film & Digital Media Internship3 Hours6
Fourth Year
FallMedia Studies Elective3
Major Elective 3Two (2) International Affairs Courses  16 Hours12
SpringCOMM 357 
or COMM 388Programming Film & Media: Festivals, TV &
Digital 
or Film and Digital Media Capstone3

--- Page 1187 ---
1218  Film and Digital Media: International Programming Track/International Affairs (BA/MA)
Major Elective 3Two (2) International Affairs Courses  16 Hours12
Fifth Year
FallThree (3) International Affairs Courses  19 Hours9
SpringThree (3) International Affairs Courses  19 Hours9 Total Hours73
1Students are expected to take two graduate-level courses in each
semester of their senior year and a total of six graduate-level courses
in their ﬁfth year. There is no required course sequence, but we strongly
suggest that students ﬁrst take the required courses ( PLSC 420
Comparative Political Systems , PLSC 430 Theories of International
Politics , and PLSC 475 Political Analysis I ) whenever they are offered
before taking elective courses.
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’sprogram who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4

--- Page 1188 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1219
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned whilein the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
Students will graduate from our program having achieved:
•a foundation for understanding and critiquing research related to
International Affairs, including methods training that leverages both
qualitative and quantitative data [International Affairs]
•knowledge of the principal theories of comparative politics and
international relations, as well as the key areas of research in these
two subﬁelds [International Affairs]
•an interdisciplinary understanding and appreciation of International
Affairs through coursework available within eight different
departments in the College of Arts and Sciences and four additional
Schools at Loyola [International Affairs]
•enhanced writing and critical thinking skills and dispositions through
class-based projects and a capstone experience [International Affairs]
•strengthened methods, research, or writing skills tailored to students
interests with advanced methods courses, language training, or the
writing of a master’s thesis. [International Affairs]
•Develop fundamental knowledge and skills essential in media
production, exhibition and distribution. [Film and Digital Media:
International Programming Track]
•Connect theory, analysis, and hands-on work in the development and
review of original ideas in ﬁlm and digital media. [Film and Digital
Media: International Programming Track]
•Identify their social values as a critical thinker. [Film and Digital
Media: International Programming Track]
•Gain proﬁciency in the story development, programming, ﬁnancing
and distribution of media works [Film and Digital Media: International
Programming Track]
Global Studies/International Affairs
(BA/MA)
The growing interconnectedness of the world’s almost 200 countries,
termed globalization, and the rising impacts of foreign affairs on our
daily lives increasingly require individuals with advanced knowledge
of International Affairs. The Accelerated BA/MA in Global Studies and
International Affairs allows students to explore global problems and
interactions from an interdisciplinary perspective that makes use of
eight Arts and Sciences academic departments and four additional
colleges. Students will have the flexibility to tailor their program to ﬁt
their individual interests. Students can fulﬁll a capstone experience by
participating in an internship, taking a study abroad class, writing a paper
for publication, or writing a master’s thesis.
Loyola University Chicago and the City of Chicago together serve as the
ideal location for an MA in International Affairs: Loyola embodies a long
commitment to interdisciplinary education; and Chicago is consistently
ranked as one of the top ten global cities in the world. The program offers
a unique urban setting for students interested in the advanced study of
International Affairs.
The majority of full-time students are expected to ﬁnish the program
in 5 years, as opposed to the six years if both programs are pursued
separately. Undergraduate students from participating programs at

--- Page 1189 ---
1220  Global Studies/International Affairs (BA/MA)
Loyola will be able to pursue an accelerated BA/MA in Global Studies and
International Affairs.
Students will also be able to take graduate courses in the School of
Communication, the School of Education (International Education), the
School of Law, Parkinson School of Health Sciences and Public Health,
Quinlan School of Business, and the School of Social Work.
Related Programs
Major
•Global Studies (BA)  (p. 478)
Minor
•Global Studies Minor  (p. 482)
Curriculum
For the BA, students will complete requirements for the Bachelor's
degree, and graduate level courses may be used as electives.  For the MA,
students will take a total of ten classes (30 credit hours) to complete the
program: Four required core classes, including a capstone experience,
and an additional six elective classes, with no more than three offered by
a single department in the College of Arts & Sciences or another School
at Loyola.
Code Title Hours
Required BA Courses  1GLST 101Introduction to Global Studies3
ANTH 100 Globalization and Local Cultures 3PLSC 102International Relations in an Age of Globalization 23
Select two of the following:  36GLST 301Capstone in Global Studies: Directed ReadingsGLST 302 States and FirmsGLST 303Technological Change and SocietyGLST 304 Global Civil Society and Social MovementsGLST 305Globalization and Environmental SustainabilityGLST 306 International DevelopmentGLST 398Topics in Global StudiesGLST 370 Internship in Global Studies 4GLST Elective Courses  (p. 1221 ) 518
Required MA CoursesCOREINTA 420 Comparative Political Systems 3INTA 430Theories of International Politics3
INTA 475 Political Analysis I 3Capstone Experience3
Select one of the following:INTA 470Fieldwork in PLSC-InternshipPLSC 499 Directed ReadingsPLSC 605Master's StudyElectives  (p. 1223 ) 518In addition to the four core classes, students will take an additional
six elective courses, with no more than three offered by a single
department in the College of Arts and Sciences or another School
at Loyola. The core INTA courses in Political Science do not count
toward this three-course total, and thus a student may take three
Political Science courses in addition to the three core (required)
courses.Total Hours57
1Global Studies BA requirements for students who declare the Global
Studies Major on or after August 1, 2021.
2PLSC 102 International Relations in an Age of Globalization  can be
taken and 3 PLSC Electives.
3Students are allowed to take additional coursework from this list in
order to fulﬁll GLST elective requirements.
4GLST 370 Internship in Global Studies  will only have 3 credit hours
counted towards the GLST major.
5Two Graduate-level International Affairs courses must be taken
Senior Year. These courses can count as major electives or general
electives. These two courses double-count for International Affairs MA
requirements.
The participating programs that will contribute classes include: Global
Studies, History, Philosophy, Political Science, Psychology, Sociology,
and Theology, Criminal Justice & Criminology, as well as the Schools of
Communication, Education, Business, Law, Health Sciences and Public
Health, and Social Work.
Additional BA Requirements
Portfolio Requirement
All graduating global studies majors must submit during their
ﬁnal semester a portfolio, which should be emailed directly
to chasselmann@luc.edu . These portfolios are not graded at the level
of the individual student but are used instead as part of an annual
assessment of the program. The precise prompts will vary from year to
year; however, students are required to submit the following:
1.a personal statement (300-500 words) describing the most important
knowledge and skills gained as a global studies major as well as the
courses and experiences you have found most helpful;
2.the inclusion of a statement (300-500 words) on the strengths and
weaknesses of the Global Studies Program itself as you see it as well
as any recommendations you would like to see made to the program;
and 
3.depending on the year, we might request copies of essays completed
for a global studies class or a short response to an essay prompt. You
will receive an email from the program director approximately two
months before you are set to graduate asking for the portfolio and
letting you know if we need supplemental material.
December graduates must submit their portfolios by December 10th of
their ﬁnal semester; May graduates must submit their portfolios by April
30th of their ﬁnal semester. Please note that portfolio submission prior to
graduation is a requirement that is separate from all other global studies
major requirements.
Language Requirement
The language requirement for the major in global studies may be satisﬁed
in any of the following ways:

--- Page 1190 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1221
•Successful completion with a grade of "C" or better of a 104-level
or higher course in one of the accepted modern, foreign languages
offered by the Department of Modern Languages and Literatures.
•Completion of a language proﬁciency examination or the
equivalent, administered by the Department of Modern
Languages and Literatures, demonstrating proﬁciency at the
104 level or higher of a modern, foreign language. Please
email  CASLanguageTesting@luc.edu  for information about language
proﬁciency testing.
•Determination by the director of the Global Studies Program, in
consultation with appropriate specialists, that a student has at least
a 104-level reading and writing proﬁciency in a language that is not
taught or tested at Loyola.
Please note that English, American Sign Language, computer languages,
and other US-based languages do not satisfy this requirement.
List of BA Elective Courses
Global Studies elective courses must be tagged with the GLST program
and must include at least two courses that focus on speciﬁc wor ld areas
(Africa, Asia, Europe, Latin America, and the Middle East). However,
students may not take their electives in the same world area. Courses
taken abroad may be substituted for LUC GLST courses only if they
are pre-approved by the director of the GLST program. In addition, for
students who declare the major starting Fall 2015, elective coursework
must be from at least three departments. No more than three courses
taken from any single department can count for the GLST major.
If a student wishes to concentrate on a particular region (e.g., Africa, Asia,
Europe, Latin America, or the Middle East) within the global studies major,
he or she may choose to take up to six GLST electives that focus on the
chosen world area. It is not required, however, that students do this.
Geographic Region:  Africa
Code Title Hours
ANTH 213 Culture in Africa 3FNAR 355Art of Africa3
HIST 213 African History: Themes & Issues 3HIST 342BAfrican History Post-16003
HIST 342M African Music's Influence on American Music 3HONR 210AEncountering Africa3
HONR 210B Encountering Africa 3HONR 210CEncountering Africa3
LITR 219 African Film 3PLSC 340International Relations of Africa3
PLSC 342 African Politics 3
 Geographic Region:  Asia
Code Title Hours
ANTH 215 Contemporary Japanese Culture 3ASIA 101Explorations in Asian Studies3
CHIN 341 Modern Chinese Literature in Chinese 3COMM 269Observing China3
COMM 301 Discovering China Through Film 3ENGL 292South Asian Literature and Civilizations3
ENGL 315 South Asian Literatures in English 3ENGL 315CSouth Asian Literature Since 19003
FNAR 357 South Asian Visual Culture 3FNAR 358Chinese Art and Culture3
FNAR 359 Japanese Art and Culture 3HIST 208East Asian History: Themes & Issues3
HIST 208Z Modern Chinese History 3HIST 343Modern South Asia3
HIST 346B Reform & Revolution in China, 1800-1949 3HIST 346CHistory of Christianity in China3
HIST 347A China Since 1949: The People's Republic 3HIST 347CCultural Revolution-China3
HIST 347D Modern Chinese History through Film 3HIST 349AWomen in East Asia3
HIST 388A Vietnam War 3HONR 209BEncountering Asia3
HONR 209C Encountering Asia 3LITR 243South Asian Literature3
LITR 244 Indian Film 3LITR 245Asian Masterpieces3
LITR 287 Topics in Asian Literature 3LITR 290Classical Chinese Literature3
LITR 292 Modern Chinese Fiction 3PHIL 192Chinese Ethics and Asian Values3
PHIL 193 Contemporary Chinese Philosophy 3PHIL 335Asian Philosophy3
PLSC 345 South & Southeast Asian Politics 3PLSC 346East Asian Politics3
SOCL 251 Peoples of China: Their Cultures and Customs 3SOCL 263Political and Social Movements in China3
SOCL 266 Development and Social Change in Modern China 3THEO 299Religions of Asia3
THEO 352 Topics in Buddhism 3
Geographic Region:  Europe
Code Title Hours
ANTH 222 Culture in Contemporary Europe 3FREN 271Main Currents of French Literature & Culture II3
FREN 309 Francophone Literature 3FREN 311French Modernity3
FREN 390 French & Francophone Cultures & Civilizations 3GERM 270Modern German Literature and Culture I3
GERM 271 Modern German Literature and Culture II 3GERM 370German Cinema3
HIST 267A Modern German Culture and Ideas I 3HIST 267BModern German Culture and Ideas II3
HIST 322 Modern France: From Empire to Postcolonial
Nation3HIST 324Italy 19th & 20th Centuries3
HIST 325A The British Empire: From Barbados to Brexit 3HIST 326Ireland: Colony to Nation State3
HIST 327A The Balkans: History, Fiction, Film 3HIST 329CEmpire, Sex, Violence: European Colonial History3
HIST 329N Modern European Nationalism: Myth and Reality 3HIST 330Europe in the Age of Catastrophe, 1900-19453
HIST 330F Fascinating Fascism:  1919 to the Present 3

--- Page 1191 ---
1222  Global Studies/International Affairs (BA/MA)HIST 331AFood, Hunger, and Power in the Modern World3
HIST 334B The Holocaust: History and Memory 3HIST 335The Second World War3
HIST 336 Contemporary Europe 1945 to Present 3HIST 337Rise & Fall of Soviet Union3
HIST 337A Women in Russia and Eurasia, 1860-Present 3HIST 338AHistory of European Communism3
HIST 339C Modern Europe and the Arts 3HIST 359CNationalist Politics: A Global Perspective3
HONR 216A Encountering Contemporary Europe 3HONR 216BEncountering Contemporary Europe3
HONR 216C Encountering Contemporary Europe 3ITAL 271Main Currents of Italian Literature II3
ITAL 284 Studies in Italian Film 3ITAL 319Survey of 20th Century Prose3
ITAL 320 Survey of 20th Century Poetry 3ITAL 390Culture & Civilization3
LITR 161 Introduction to Italian Culture 3LITR 200European Masterpieces3
LITR 202 European Novel 3LITR 203European Drama3
LITR 204 European Film 3LITR 221Polish Authors3
LITR 225 Russian Masterpieces 3LITR 230German Masterpieces3
LITR 260 Italian Masterpieces 3LITR 262Modern Italian Novel3
LITR 264 Italian Film Genre 3LITR 267Italian Film History3
LITR 268 Italy: Cultural History 3LITR 268RItalian Culture: Food & Wine3
LITR 283 Major Authors in Translation 3LITR 291Italian & Italian-American Women Writers3
PLSC 232 Politics of the United Kingdom 3PLSC 347The European Union3
PLSC 348 Soviet & Post-Soviet Politics 3PLSC 349Eastern European Politics3
PLSC 352 Canadian Politics 3PLSC 360Western European Politics3
PLSC 365 Italian Politics & Government 3ROST 382Human Rights: View from Rome3
SOCL 267 Italy Today 3SPAN 271Introduction to Iberian Literature and Culture3
SPAN 311 Generation of 1898 3SPAN 32120th Century Theatre3
SPAN 331 20th Century Poetry 3SPAN 34120th Century Spanish Literature3
SPAN 349 Realism and Naturalism 3SPAN 362History of Hispanic Feminism3
SPAN 363 Borges 3SPAN 366Spanish Cinema3SPAN 390 Latin American Culture and Civilization 3UNIV 301Ricci Seminar Rome3
Geographic Region:  Latin America
Code Title Hours
ANTH 211 Peoples of Latin America 3ANTH 217Mexican Culture & Heritage3
ANTH 321 Human Rights in Latin America 3ENGL 316CCaribbean Literature in English Since 19003
ENVS 340 Natural History of Belize 3HIST 210Latin American History: Themes & Issues3
HIST 278A Violence Drug Trafﬁcking & Crime in Latin America 3HIST 353Latin America in Recent Times3
HIST 355 The Caribbean & Central America in Colonial/
Modern Times3HIST 356Mexican History-Ancient to Modern Times3
HIST 357 The Mexican Revolution in Popular Imagination 3HIST 358Women in Latin American History3
HONR 208A Encountering Latin America and the Caribbean 3HONR 208BEncountering Latin America and the Caribbean3
LASP 395 Capstone in Latin American Studies 3LITR 211Latina Authors3
PLSC 343 Latin American Politics 3PLSC 344Contemporary Issues in Latin America3
PLSC 351 Latin American International System 3SPAN 271Introduction to Iberian Literature and Culture3
SPAN 363 Borges 3SPAN 370Latin American Poetry3
SPAN 380 Latin American Prose Fiction 3SPAN 381Contemporary Spanish-American Novel3
SPAN 385 Caribbean Literature 3SPAN 389Latin American Short Story3
SPAN 390 Latin American Culture and Civilization (Topic: The
Hispanic World)3
Geographic Region:  Middle East
Code Title Hours
ANTH 220 Contemporary Cultures of the Middle East 3HIST 209Islamic History: Themes & Issues3
HIST 300 Topics in History (Topic: Ottoman Empire) 3HIST 341Modern Middle East3
HIST 341B Arab-Israeli Conflict 3HONR 212BEncountering the Middle East3
LITR 238 Arabic Literature in Translation 3PLSC 300DContemporary Political issues in International
Relations3
PLSC 368 Politics of the Middle East 3THEO 350Topics in Islam3
THEO 365 Women, Gender and Embodiment in Islam 3THEO 366Contemporary Islamic Thought and Movements3

--- Page 1192 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1223
General International Studies
Code Title Hours
ANTH 100 Globalization and Local Cultures 3ANTH 104The Human Ecological Footprint3
ANTH 203 Violence, Social Suffering, and Justice 3ANTH 207Economies, Culture, and Development3
ANTH 216 Cultures of Migration 3ANTH 303People and Conservation3
ANTH 305 Violence and Culture 3ANTH 306Anthropology and Human Rights3
ANTH 319 Anthropology of Tourism 3ASIA 101Explorations in Asian Studies3
CJC 336 Political Violence and Crime 3CJC 337 /
PLSC 337Terrorism3
CJC 378 International Criminal Justice 3COMM 272Intercultural Communication3
COMM 278 International Public Relations 3COMM 303Media, Politics, & Propaganda3
ECON 323 International Economics 3ECON 324International Monetary Relations3
ECON 325 Economics of Growth & Development 3ELPS 230Globalization, Education and Childhood3
ENGL 312 Studies in World Literature in English 3ENGL 313Border Literatures3
EXPL 292 International Service Learning 3FINC 355International Finance Management3
FNAR 202 Global Art History: Modern Art 3FNAR 352Islam and Visual Culture3
Any GLST Course (not used in above requirements)Any GLST Transfer Credit (not used in above requirements)GLST 370 Internship in Global Studies 3-6HIST 104Global History Since 15003
HIST 279E Climate and History 3HIST 349Contemporary Global Issues: Historical
Perspectives3
HIST 359 Teaching World History 3HIST 359CNationalist Politics: A Global Perspective3
HIST 359F Genocides in the Modern World 3HIST 359HAnti-Colonial Resistance in the Twentieth Century3
HSM 210 Introduction to Global Healthcare Delivery 3IBUS 201Introduction to International Business3
IBUS 315 International Management 3LITR 280World Masterpieces in Translation3
LITR 283 Major Authors in Translation 3LITR 284International Film3
LITR 299 Comparative Literature 3MARK 363International Marketing3
PLSC 102 International Relations in an Age of Globalization 3PLSC 103Comparative Politics3
PLSC 204 Conflict Management 3PLSC 232Politics of the United Kingdom3
PLSC 252 Capitalism and Its Discontents 3PLSC 300CContemporary Political Issues: Comparative
Politics (Topic: Cuba Today: Politics & Society)3
PLSC 300C Contemporary Political Issues: Comparative
Politics (Topic: Contemporary Political Issues)3PLSC 300DContemporary Political issues in International
Relations3
PLSC 316 Politics of Genocide 3PLSC 317Politics of International Health3
PLSC 325 American Foreign Policy 3PLSC 333Crossing Borders: The Politics of Immigration3
PLSC 337 Terrorism 3PLSC 339Political Ideologies3
PLSC 350 Politics of International Economic Relations 3PLSC 353International Law3
PLSC 354 Global Environmental Politics 3PLSC 355CWomen and Politics: A Cross-National Perspective3
PLSC 356 Intervent in World Politics 3PLSC 358War, Peace and Politics3
PLSC 358D The Scientiﬁc Study of War 3PLSC 359Revolutions3
PLSC 362 Politics Developing Societies 3PLSC 363International Politics3
PLSC 364 UN & International Organization 3PLSC 366Dictatorship3
PLSC 367 Model United Nations 3POLS 270Contemporary Polish Culture in the Original
Language3
SOCL 252 Global Inequalities 3SOCL 265Globalization & Society3
SOCL 278 Global Health 3THEO 272Judaism3
THEO 282 Hinduism 3THEO 295Islam3
THEO 297 Buddhism 3THEO 330Liberation Theology3
List of MA Elective Courses
Please note that the courses listed might not be offered every year and
new courses may be added to  this list . Students should talk with the
Graduate Program Director if they want to take a course that is not on
the list of elective courses  to see whether the course can serve as an
elective.
College of Arts and Sciences
Code Title Hours
Criminal Justice and Criminology DepartmentCJC 416International Criminal Justice3
Methods CoursesCJC 403Research Methods and Program Evaluation3
CJC 404 Applied Data Analysis and Interpretation 4History DepartmentHIST 441 Women's & Gender History: Europe 3HIST 459Environmental History3
HIST 464 Transnational Urban History 3

--- Page 1193 ---
1224  Global Studies/International Affairs (BA/MA)Methods CoursesHIST 483 Oral History: Method and Practice 3Modern Languages and Literatures DepartmentLanguage Research Tool: Although there is no language requirement,
students interested in honing their foreign language skills will have
the option of taking a 400-level language course (i.e., a course
beyond 101, 102, 103, and 104), and having that course count as one
of the six elective courses. Current language possibilities offered at
Loyola include Chinese, French, German, Italian, and Spanish.MLL also offers graduate-level courses in Spanish as part of their
master’s degree in Spanish. These courses are as follows and would
be open only to interested students with advanced writing, speaking,
and reading skills in Spanish. These courses are as follows:SPAN 405 Critical Methods (pan-Hispanic world) 3SPAN 490Hispanic Culture & Civilization (Latin American
ﬁlm, with a focus on human rights)3
Philosophy DepartmentPHIL 459Philosophy of Law3
PHIL 463 Virtue Ethics (includes non-Western philosophy) 3PHIL TBDCritical Race Theory (originally taught as a “special
topics” course; is being turned into a permanent
course)PHIL 480 Social & Political Philosophy (focuses on global
development on a regular basis)3Methods CoursesPHIL 400 Philosophy Research Tools 3Political Science DepartmentPLSC 421 Democratic Political Systems 3PLSC 422Authoritarian Political Systems3
PLSC 431 Formulation US Foreign Policy 3PLSC 432Comparative Foreign Policy Analysis3
PLSC 433 International Organization 3PLSC 435International Political Economics3
PLSC 436 International Conflict 3Methods CoursesPLSC 401 Intro to Research Design & Method 3PLSC 476Political Analysis II3
Psychology DepartmentPSYC 460Social Psychological Theory3
PSYC 461 Attitude and Attitude Change 3PSYC 474Research in Group Dynamics3
PSYC 484 Prejudice and Intergroup Relations 3Methods CoursesPSYC 486 Methods of Program Evaluation 3Sociology DepartmentSOCL 418 Demography 3SOCL 423Social Movements3
SOCL 426 Sociology of Gender 3SOCL 441Sociology of Religion3
SOCL 447 Sociology of Culture 3SOCL 461Race & Ethnicity3
Methods CoursesSOCL 410Logic of Sociological Inquiry3
SOCL 412 Qualitative Methods in Social Research 3SOCL 414Statistical Methods Analysis I3
SOCL 415 Statistical Methods of Analysis II 3Theology DepartmentTHEO 459 Contemporary Theology 1-12THEO 460Seminar in History of Theology1-12
THEO 464 Religion & Politics in Christian History 3THEO 470Foundations Crititical Issues Theological Ethics1-12
THEO 480 Seminar in Christian Ethics 1-12
School of Education (International Education)
Code Title Hours
ELPS 405 Introduction to Educational Policy Analysis 3ELPS 448International Higher Education3
ELPS 455 Comparative Education 3ELPS 540Seminar in the History of Education3
ELPS 550 Seminar on Globalization and Education 3ELPS 555Seminar Comparative Education3
 School of Communication
Code Title Hours
COMM 401 Foundations of Global Strategic Communication 3COMM 402Organizational Leadership and Change
Management3
COMM 422 Global and Multicultural Audiences and
Stakeholders3
School of Social Work
Code Title Hours
SOWK 502 Power, Oppression, Privilege, and Social Justice 3SOWK 654Global Social Work: Reflective Practice for Justice
and Peace3
SOWK 730 Immigration Dynamics and U.S. Social Policy 3SOWK 731Social Work Practice with Refugees and
Immigrants3
SOWK 732 Migration, Social Justice, and Human Rights 3SOWK 733North American Migration Dynamics, Challenges &
Opportunity1-3
School of Law 
Code Title Hours
LAW 176 International Trade Law 11-3LAW 371International Business Trans 11-3
LAW 372 International Law and Practice 3LAW 388Global Access to Medicine: A Patent Perspective3
LAW 459 Intro to English Legal Profession 1LAW 568European Union Law 11-3
1Explanatory note about 1, 2, 3, and variable credit hour courses from
the School of Law: “For the law courses showing a range of hours (e.g.,
1-3 credit hours), students have the option to choose the number of
credits for enrollment within the range. For students opting for the
higher credits (i.e., enrollment in 3 credit hours rather than 1 credit hour
would require additional assignments and/or an examination). If the
MA students in these courses need to be enrolled in 3 credit hours,
the following notation can be included with the course listing:  ‘MA
students must choose the 3 credit option for enrollment in this course’. ”

--- Page 1194 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1225
Please note that courses to be included in this MA program will require
students choosing the 3-credit option.
School of Law - Classes Offered at the John Felice Rome Center
Code Title Hours
PLAW 101 Comparative and Ethical Lawyering for the Rule of
Law3PLAW 102History, Theory and Practice of Rule of Law for
Development3
PLAW 103 Theory and Practice of Assessments in Rule of
Law Advising2PLAW 104International Development Architecture3
PLAW 105 Sustainable Development Through International
Commerce and Investment2PLAW 106Design of Rule of Law Programs and Proposal
Preparation2
PLAW 107 Rule of Law in Conflict Prevention and
Peacebuilding2PLAW 108Legal Systems and Methods3
PLAW 250 Research and Writing on the Rule of Law 3PLAW 907Rule of Law Project Management, Monitoring &
Evaluation3
Parkinson School of Health Sciences and Public Health  
Code Title Hours
MPBH 400 Determinants of Population Health 3MPBH 414Introduction to Global Health3
MPBH 417 Global Maternal and Child Health 3MPBH 422Population Health Planning & Management3
MPBH 424 Health Economics and Healthcare Financing 3MPBH 432Health Impact Assessment3
Quinlan School of Business 
Code Title Hours
ECON 424 International Business Economics 3FINC 455International Financial Management3
HRER 422 Global HR Management 3HRER 502Global Employment Relations3
MARK 465 International Marketing 3MARK 461Research Methods in Marketing3
MGMT 446 International Business Ethics 3SCMG 486Global Logistics3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
In order to provide optimal flexibility in the International Affairs MA
program, there is no required course sequence for that degree. However,
students are expected to take two graduate-level  course s in each
semester of their senior year and a total of six graduate-level  course s
in their ﬁfth year. There is no required  course  sequence , but we strongly
suggest that students ﬁrst take the required  course s (PLSC 420,PLSC 430, and PLSC 475) whenever they are offered before taking
elective  course s.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
FallGLST 101Introduction to Global Studies3 Hours3
SpringANTH 100Globalization and Local Cultures3 Hours3
Year 2
FallPLSC 102International Relations in an Age of
Globalization3 Hours3
Spring
GLST 300-level Required Course 3Elective3 Hours6
Year 3
FallElective3Elective3 Hours6
SpringElective3 Hours3
Year 4
Fall
GLST 300-level Required Course 3Elective3INTA MA 400-Level Course3 Hours9
Spring
Elective 3INTA MA 400-Level Course3 Hours6
Year 5Remainder of the International Affairs (MA) Course Requirements24 Hours24 Total Hours63
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.

--- Page 1195 ---
1226  Global Studies/International Affairs (BA/MA)
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the

--- Page 1196 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1227
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
Students will graduate from our program having achieved:
•a foundation for understanding and critiquing research related to
International Affairs, including methods training that leverages both
qualitative and quantitative data [International Affairs]
•knowledge of the principal theories of comparative politics and
international relations, as well as the key areas of research in these
two subﬁelds [International Affairs]
•an interdisciplinary understanding and appreciation of International
Affairs through coursework available within eight different
departments in the College of Arts and Sciences and four additional
Schools at Loyola [International Affairs]
•enhanced writing and critical thinking skills and dispositions through
class-based projects and a capstone experience [International Affairs]
•strengthened methods, research, or writing skills tailored to students
interests with advanced methods courses, language training, or the
writing of a master’s thesis. [International Affairs]
•Demonstrate an ability to describe and analyze two or more important
contemporary global concerns (e.g., the environment, violence,
human trafﬁcking, poverty, child labor) [Global Studies]
•Demonstrate geographical, cultural, and/or historical knowledge of at
least two different world regions (Asia, Africa, South America, Europe,
and the Middle East) [Global Studies]
•Demonstrate an ability to describe and analyze an aspect of the
modern political system in at least two countries outside of No rth
America [Global Studies]
•Demonstrate an ability to describe and analyze the signiﬁcance and
activities of two or more international/global organizations [Global
Studies]Healthcare Administration (BS/MHA)
Accelerate your path to a master’s degree
Loyola University Chicago and the City of Chicago together serve as
the ideal location for a Bachelor of Science and Master in Heal thcare
Administration (BSHCA/MHA). Chicago, a leading U.S. hub of health
care organization and innovation, offers a unique urban setting for
foundational and advanced study in healthcare administration.
Our undergraduate students begin with a broad, interdisciplinary
curriculum drawing on courses in healthcare organization, business, data
analysis, and ethics. Service-learning, internships, and capstones provide
them with rich experiential learning opportunities. Our graduate students
develop a more in-depth understanding of operational, ﬁnance, and
strategic issues in addition to the professional skills to be an effective
leader in the vast healthcare industry. With three graduate-specialty
tracks, students have the flexibility to tailor an interdisciplinary program
to individual interests.
The dual BSHCA/MHA program allows students to explore challenges
and solutions in a rich healthcare environment while accelerating their
ability to earn two degrees.
The mission of the Department of Healthcare Administration is to  develop
leaders to improve healthcare through education, research, and service,
grounded in the Jesuit values of care for others and social justice.
Our vision is to  be a national leader whose graduates are forces for
positive change and leaders of teams that meet the challenges and
opportunities of healthcare consistent with the highest ethical values.
Our MHA program follows rigorous standards and has aligned our
program objectives and outcomes with the following industry-driven
competencies:
•Effectively use key accounting principles and ﬁnancial management
tools
•Plan, organize, execute, and monitor the resources of the organization
to ensure optimal health outcomes and effective quality and cost
controls
•Demonstrate an understanding of system structure, funding
mechanisms, and how healthcare services are organized
•Balance the interrelationships among access, quality, safety, cost,
resource allocation, accountability, care setting, community need, and
professional roles
•Assess the performance of the organization as part of the health
system/healthcare services
•Connect the interrelationships among access, quality, cost, resource
allocation, accountability, and community need
•Use vital statistics and core health indicators to guide decision-
making and analyze health trends of the population to guide the
provision of health services
•Analyze problems, promote solutions, and encourage decision
making
•Respond to the need for change and lead the change process
•Lead the development of key planning documents, including strategic
plans, business services plans, and business cases for new services
•Use data sets to assess performance, establish targets, monitor
indicators and trends, and determine if deliverables are met

--- Page 1197 ---
1228  Healthcare Administration (BS/MHA)
•Present results of data analysis in a way that is factual, credible, and
understandable to the decision-makers
•Collate relevant data and information, and analyze and evaluate
this information to support or make an effective decision or
recommendation
•Ensure optimal use of information and trend analysis within the
organization through the use of business intelligence, information
management, clinical, and business systems
•Articulate and communicate the mission, objectives, and priorities of
the organization to internal and external entities
•Present results of data analysis in a way that is factual, credible, and
understandable to the decision-makers
•Demonstrate problem-solving and problem-solving skills
•Commit to competence, integrity, altruism, and the promotion of the
public good
•Demonstrate high ethical conduct, a commitment to transparency
and accountability for one’s actions
•Use the established ethical structures to resolve ethical issues
•Practice and value transparent shared decision-making and
understand its impacts on stakeholders
Related Programs
Major
•Healthcare Administration (BS)  (p. 721)
Combined
•Healthcare Administration/Business (BS/MBA)  (p. 1231 )
•Healthcare Administration/Public Health (BS/MPH)  (p. 1234 )
Curriculum
The BSHCA/MHA accelerated master's program allows students to begin
their master in Healthcare Administration during their ﬁnal year of BSHCA
coursework. Students then typically go on to ﬁnish their MHA in only one
additional year. Please see the courses BSHCA/MHA master's students
are required to take below:
Code Title Hours
BSHCA CoursesACCT 201Introductory Accounting I3
ECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics 3FINC 301Introductory Business Finance3
HSM 110 Healthcare in America 3HSM 120Essentials of Medical Terminology for Health
Professionals1
HSM 200 Careers in Healthcare Administration 2HSM 220Post-Acute & Long-Term Care Management3
HSM 230 Fundamentals of Health Equity 3HSM 240Healthcare Workforce Management and
Professionalism3
HSM 280 Healthcare Ethics in Practice 3HSM 310Healthcare Project Management3
HSM 330 Healthcare Legal & Regulatory Environment 3HSM 338Healthcare Strategy and Marketing3
HSM 340 Health Care Policy 3HSM 345Healthcare Data Analytics3HSM 350 Healthcare Administration Capstone 3HSM 360Healthcare Administration Field Internship6
HSM 386 Health Information Systems Management 3INFS 247Business Information Systems3
ISSCM 241 Business Statistics 3PSYC 101General Psychology3
MHA CoursesMHA 405U.S. Health Systems Management3
MHA 415 Culture of Quality & Safety in Health Care 3MHA 430Managerial Epidemiology3
MHA 440 Healthcare Management and Ethics 3MHA 450Research Literacy for Health Decision Makers3
MHA 451 Healthcare Finance I 3MHA 452Healthcare Finance II3
MHA 460 Strategy & Leadership in Healthcare Organizations 3MHA 468Healthcare Data Analytics & Business Intelligence3
MHA 484 Capstone I-Healthcare Decision Support 3MHA 489Human Resources and Professionalism3
MHA 491 Systems Thinking for Healthcare Leaders 11MHA 492Policy in Health Systems 11
MHA 493 Healthcare Performance Management 11MHA 494Multi-disciplinary Teams in Healthcare 11
MHA 495 Capstone II 3-6Elective3Students take one Parkinson 400 level course, as long as meeting the
pre-requistes, to satisfy the elective requirement.  2Total Hours106-109
1Onsite Immersion course.
2A full list of 400 level Parkinson courses can be found  here  (p. 1843 ).
Credit Hours & Timeline
The two degrees require 152-155 credit hours in total:
•112 total credit hours for the Bachelor of Science- Less credit hours
for the standard BS in HCA (121) because 9 undergraduate credit
hours will be replaced by graduate courses. There is 69 credit hours
of required classes for the HCA major. The remaining credit hours are
university CORE requirements.
•40-43 for the MHA
BSHCA/MHA students are expected to complete the MHA within 18
months of graduating with the baccalaureate. Completion time for the
two degrees is shortened by enrolling in 11 credit hours of graduate
coursework in the fall and spring semesters of senior year and waiving
the undergraduate healthcare ﬁnance course (i.e.  HSM 325 Healthcare
Fiscal Management ) in lieu of a higher level graduate ﬁnance course.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
Course Title Hours
Junior
SummerMHA 450Research Literacy for Health Decision
Makers ( (In lieu of HSM 358). Can also be
taken in the summer of Year 1. )3 Hours3

--- Page 1198 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1229
Senior
Fall
HSM 330 Healthcare Legal & Regulatory Environment 3HSM 340Health Care Policy3
MHA 415 Culture of Quality & Safety in Health Care 3MHA 451Healthcare Finance I3MHA 491Systems Thinking for Healthcare Leaders 11 Hours13
Spring
HSM 350 Healthcare Administration Capstone 3HSM 360Healthcare Administration Field Internship6
MHA 452 Healthcare Finance II 3MHA 492Policy in Health Systems 11
Select one of the following Business Selectives: 3HRER 301 
ENTR 201 Essentials of Entrepreneurship  SCMG 232Introduction to Supply Chain Management ECON 329Health Economics  Hours16
Summer
MHA 430 Managerial Epidemiology 3MHA 468Healthcare Data Analytics & Business
Intelligence3 Hours6
Master's
FallMHA 440Healthcare Management and Ethics3
MHA 489 Human Resources and Professionalism 3MHA 493Healthcare Performance Management 11 Hours7
SpringMHA 405U.S. Health Systems Management3
MHA 460 Strategy & Leadership in Healthcare
Organizations3MHA 484Capstone I-Healthcare Decision Support3MHA 494Multi-disciplinary Teams in Healthcare 11 Hours10
Summer
MHA 495 Capstone II 3Elective3Students may take any Parkinson 400 level course, as long as
meeting the pre-requistes, to satisfy the elective requirement.  2  Hours6 Total Hours61
1Onsite Immersion course.
2A full list of 400 level Parkinson courses can be found  here  (p. 1843 ).Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.

--- Page 1199 ---
1230  Healthcare Administration (BS/MHA)
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduatecredit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•Drive operational and performance improvements in healthcare
organizations [Undergraduate]
•Manage data to guide effective decision-making in health services
organizations [Undergraduate]
•Evaluate industry and organizational dynamics in the healthcare
environment  [Undergraduate]
•Assess and prioritize population health needs  [Undergraduate]
•Apply core business and ﬁnancial principles to the healthcare
environment [Graduate]
•Evaluate industry and organizational dynamics in the healthcare
environment [Graduate]
•Assess and prioritize population health needs [Graduate]
•Drive operational and performance improvements in healthcare
organizations [Graduate]
•Manage data to guide effective decision-making in health services
organizations [Graduate]

--- Page 1200 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1231
•Synthesize theoretical and analytical knowledge, critical thinking,
and communication skills to solve problems in healthcare
administration [Graduate]
•Integrate values, ethics, and social justice into the management and
leadership of health services organizations in keeping with the Jesuit
Catholic tradition [Graduate]
Healthcare Administration/Business
(BS/MBA)
Designed exclusively for Loyola University Chicago, the Bachelor
of Science in Healthcare Administration and Master of Business
Administration (MBA) dual-degree program allows students the chance
to earn both undergraduate and graduate degrees in a compressed
timeframe. An MBA complements your healthcare administration studies,
enabling you to become a more knowledgeable and evidence-based
decision-maker and leader in the ﬁeld. It also adds a stronger business
element to your coursework, expands your business knowledge, and
provides you with in-demand skills.
Related Programs
Major
•Healthcare Administration (BS)  (p. 721)
Combined
•Healthcare Administration (BS/MHA)  (p. 1227 )
•Healthcare Administration/Public Health (BS/MPH)  (p. 1234 )
Curriculum
Students accepted into this program take two graduate-level MBA
electives during their spring semester senior year. Students will work with
the MBA Program Director to select and enroll in these courses.
BSHCA/MBA students complete the remainder of their  MBA
curriculum  within approximately 12 months after their senior year
beginning during the summer term directly following graduation.
Code Title Hours
BS RequirementsHSM 110Healthcare in America3
HSM 120 Essentials of Medical Terminology for Health
Professionals1HSM 200Careers in Healthcare Administration2
HSM 220 Post-Acute & Long-Term Care Management 3HSM 230Fundamentals of Health Equity3
HSM 240 Healthcare Workforce Management and
Professionalism3HSM 280Healthcare Ethics in Practice3
HSM 310 Healthcare Project Management 3HSM 315Healthcare Quality & Performance Improvement3
HSM 325 Healthcare Fiscal Management 3HSM 330Healthcare Legal & Regulatory Environment3
HSM 338 Healthcare Strategy and Marketing 3HSM 340Health Care Policy3
HSM 345 Healthcare Data Analytics 3HSM 350Healthcare Administration Capstone3HSM 358 Research Literacy for Health Decision-Makers 3HSM 360Healthcare Administration Field Internship6
HSM 368 Management of Healthcare Organizations 3HSM 386Health Information Systems Management3
PSYC 101 General Psychology 3ACCT 201Introductory Accounting I3
ECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics 3FINC 301Introductory Business Finance3
INFS 247 Business Information Systems 3ISSCM 241Business Statistics3
Select one of the following: 3HRER 301Principles of HR ManagementENTR 201 Essentials of EntrepreneurshipSCMG 232Introduction to Supply Chain ManagementECON 329 Health EconomicsMBA Requirements  1Prerequisite Knowledge  2ISSCM 400Quantitative Methods 3ISSCM 402N Quantitative Methods II - Statistics Primer 4Introductory CoursesACCT 400 Financial Accounting for Business Decisions 53ECON 420Managerial Economics 63
MARK 460 Marketing Management 53FINC 450Financial Management 73
SCMG 480 Intro to Operations Management 3Next Generation MBA CoreMARK 425N Business Communication 1.5MGMT 426NLeadership Development1.5
MARK 470N Research, Insights and Storytelling 3ISSCM 596NData Driven Decision Making3
ETHC 441N Business Ethics 3MGMT 430NStrategy and Leadership3
HRER 417N Managing and Motivating in the Workplace 3MGMT 431NBusiness Consulting Course3
Three (3) MBA Electives 9Through electives, you can shape your education for your personal
career path and interests. Electives can be concentrated in a
particular area of study (e.g., ﬁnance, marketing, human resources
management, etc.) or across several areas of interest.Total Hours123
1The Quinlan School of Business Graduate Program uses a quarter
system rather than a semester system.  The MBA program is an 16
course program (48 hours).
2ISSCM 400 Quantitative Methods  and ISSCM 402N Quantitative
Methods II - Statistics Primer  can be taken in the ﬁrst quarter of the
MBA degree if necessary.
3Can be waived with grade of B or above in  MATH 131 Applied Calculus
I or MATH 161 Calculus I .
4Can be waived with grade of B or above in  STAT 103 Fundamentals of
Statistics  or ENVS 203 Environmental Statistics .
5Can be taken as a free elective in senior year.
6Prerequisite of  ISSCM 400 Quantitative Methods  or the equivalent
can be waived with grade of B or above in  ECON 201 Principles of
Microeconomics  & ECON 202 Principles of Macroeconomics

--- Page 1201 ---
1232  Healthcare Administration/Business (BS/MBA)
7Prerequisite of  ACCT 400 Financial Accounting for Business
Decisions  or the equivalent.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework. An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study. Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
First Year
FallPSYC 101General Psychology ( Fulﬁlls Tier 2 Societal
& Cultural Knowledge )3 Hours3
Spring
INFS 247 Business Information Systems 3ISSCM 241 
or PSYC 304Business Statistics 
or Statistics3ECON 201Principles of Microeconomics3 Hours9
Second Year
Fall
HSM 110 Healthcare in America 3ACCT 201Introductory Accounting I3
HSM 200 Careers in Healthcare Administration 2HSM 120Essentials of Medical Terminology for
Health Professionals1 Hours9
SpringHSM 230Fundamentals of Health Equity3
HSM 310 Healthcare Project Management 3Select one of the following:3
HSM 280 Healthcare Ethics in Practice ( Fulﬁlls Tier II
Philosophical Knowledge ) 3 PHIL 284Health Care Ethics ( Fulﬁlls Tier II
Philosophical Knowledge ) 3  Hours9
Third Year
FallHSM 368Management of Healthcare Organizations3
HSM 345 Healthcare Data Analytics 3HSM 386Health Information Systems Management3FINC 301Introductory Business Finance 43 Hours12
Spring
HSM 220 Post-Acute & Long-Term Care Management 3HSM 240Healthcare Workforce Management and
Professionalism3
HSM 358 Research Literacy for Health Decision-
Makers3HSM 338Healthcare Strategy and Marketing3 Hours12Fourth Year
FallHSM 315Healthcare Quality & Performance
Improvement3
HSM 330 Healthcare Legal & Regulatory Environment
33HSM 340Health Care Policy3Business Elective  53 Hours12
Spring
HSM 325 Healthcare Fiscal Management 63HSM 350Healthcare Administration Capstone3
HSM 360 Healthcare Administration Field Internship 6ACCT 400Financial Accounting for Business
Decisions3MARK 460Marketing Management3 Hours18
Fifth YearComplete remaining MBA requirements in consultation with
Advisors.39 Hours39 Total Hours123
1Students assigned to  UCWR 110 Writing Responsibly  for spring should
take a CORE in the fall
2Students assigned to  UCWR 110 Writing Responsibly  for fall should
take a CORE in the spring
3PHIL 284 Health Care Ethics  or HSM 280 Healthcare Ethics in
Practice  is a prerequisite to HSM 330 Healthcare Legal & Regulatory
Environment .
4Statistics ( ISSCM 241 Business Statistics or PSYC 304
Statistics ), ECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics  and  ACCT 201
Introductory Accounting I  are prerequisites to  FINC 301 Introductory
Business Finance .
5Business Electives:  ECON 329 Health Economics , ENTR 201 Essentials
of Entrepreneurship , HRER 301  , or SCMG 232 Introduction to Supply
Chain Management .
6FINC 301 Introductory Business Finance  is a prerequisite to HSM 325
Healthcare Fiscal Management .
7Students are strongly encouraged to use program electives toward the
following course  HSM 210 Introduction to Global Healthcare Delivery .
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.

--- Page 1202 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1233
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level

--- Page 1203 ---
1234  Healthcare Administration/Public Health (BS/MPH)
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•Integrative Business Knowledge: Graduates will be proﬁcient
in integrating the techniques, processes, and procedures of the
fundamental business disciplines (accounting, economics, ﬁnance,
marketing, management, human resource management, operations
management, and information technology). They will be able to apply
theory, skills, and knowledge from these disciplines to business
practice.
•Critical Decision Making: Graduates will demonstrate their capacity
for critical analysis in processing, interpreting, and managing the
quantitative and qualitative information necessary for effective
managerial decision making.
•Ethics and Responsible Leadership: Graduates will understand how
to be a leader in business who exhibits personal integrity, ethical
awareness, and an ability to apply ethical principles to business
practice.
•Global Perspective and Awareness of Diversity: Graduates will have a
global perspective by recognizing international business issues and
appreciating diversity, including culture, race, religion, and gender.
•Communication: Graduates will be able to communicate effectively,
orally. Graduates will be able to communicate effectively, in writing.    
Healthcare Administration/Public
Health (BS/MPH)
Earn both a bachelor's and master's degree in ﬁve years.
Build your knowledge in the organization of healthcare administration
and public health with this dual degree. As an undergraduate, you
will acquire a broad, interdisciplinary healthcare administration
knowledge-base drawing on courses in healthcare organization, business,
data analysis, ethics, and a rich experiential learning experie nce. At
the master's level, you will become proﬁcient in core public health
competencies in the areas of of evidence-based approaches, public
health and health care systems, planning and management, policy,
leadership, communication, interprofessional practice, and systemsthinking. The Master of Public Health program complements your
health care administration studies, enabling you to become a more
knowledgeable and evidence-based decision-maker and leader in the
ﬁeld.
Related Programs
Major
•Healthcare Administration (BS)  (p. 721)
Combined
•Healthcare Administration (BS/MHA)  (p. 1227 )
•Healthcare Administration/Business (BS/MBA)  (p. 1231 )
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
BS RequirementsHSM 110Healthcare in America3
HSM 120 Essentials of Medical Terminology for Health
Professionals1HSM 200Careers in Healthcare Administration2
HSM 220 Post-Acute & Long-Term Care Management 3HSM 230Fundamentals of Health Equity3
HSM 240 Healthcare Workforce Management and
Professionalism3HSM 280Healthcare Ethics in Practice3
HSM 310 Healthcare Project Management 3HSM 315Healthcare Quality & Performance Improvement3
HSM 325 Healthcare Fiscal Management 3HSM 330Healthcare Legal & Regulatory Environment3
HSM 338 Healthcare Strategy and Marketing 3HSM 340Health Care Policy3
HSM 345 Healthcare Data Analytics 3HSM 350Healthcare Administration Capstone3
HSM 358 Research Literacy for Health Decision-Makers 3HSM 360Healthcare Administration Field Internship6
HSM 368 Management of Healthcare Organizations 3HSM 386Health Information Systems Management3
PSYC 101 General Psychology 3ACCT 201Introductory Accounting I3
ECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics 3FINC 301Introductory Business Finance3
INFS 247 Business Information Systems 3ISSCM 241Business Statistics3
Select one of the following: 3HRER 301Principles of HR ManagementENTR 201 Essentials of EntrepreneurshipSCMG 232Introduction to Supply Chain ManagementECON 329 Health EconomicsMPH RequirementsCore CoursesMPBH 400Determinants of Population Health3
MPBH 402 Public Health Practice and Management 3MPBH 403Introduction to Epidemiology3

--- Page 1204 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1235
MPBH 404 Biostatistics for Health and Biological Science 3MPBH 407Public Health Policy: Concepts and Practice3or MPBH 409Biostatistics I
MPBH 499 Public Health in Action 3MPH Track-Speciﬁc Curricula15
MPH Electives 6Select two of the following:  16
MPBH 413 Non-Communicable Disease EpidemiologyMPBH 426Infectious Disease EpidemiologyMPBH 432 Health Impact AssessmentMPBH 495Special TopicsApplied Practice Experience 1MPBH 410MPH PracticumIntegrated Learning Experience 2MPBH 411MPH CapstoneTotal Hours126
1Selected courses from other schools/programs may satisfy MPH
elective requirements.
MPH Track-Speciﬁc Curricula (15 credits)
Epidemiology
This hybrid program combines online and evening classes. Epidemiology
is the basic science of public health: it helps us understand the causes of
and solutions to diseases. This track equips students to design, conduct,
analyze, and interpret population health research, while they learn the
basic principles of all public health disciplines.
Code Title Hours
MPBH 412 Intro to Statistical Computing for Public Health 2MPBH 421Biostatistics II3
MPBH 423 Intermediate Epidemiology 3MPBH 427Advanced Statistical Methods1
MPBH 431 Grant Writing 3Choose One Research Methods Course from the following:3
MPBH 413 Non-Communicable Disease EpidemiologyMPBH 414Introduction to Global HealthMPBH 433 Clinical TrialsMPBH 434Systematic Review and Meta-AnalysisENVS 480Introduction to Geographic Information SystemsTotal Hours15
Global Health Equity
This concentration is a hybrid program of online and evening classes.
Study the health of global populations with the ultimate goal of
identifying and eliminating structures and practices of inequity and
injustice to advance health equity for individuals and populations.
Code Title Hours
MPBH 414 Introduction to Global Health 3MPBH 417Global Maternal and Child Health3
MPBH 422 Population Health Planning & Management 3MPBH 431Grant Writing3
Choose one of the following:  13BEHL 407Social Determinants of Health and BioethicsBEHL 432Global BioethicsTotal Hours15
1Students may choose an elective course not on this list with Track
Director approval.
Public Health Policy and Management
This concentration can be completed entirely online, and also can be
taken with in-person courses. This curriculum studies the organization,
structure, and delivery of health-related services, and associated
population health outcomes. Students may customize their academic
focus in either public health policy, administration, or both.
Code Title Hours
MPBH 416 Health Services Research Methods 3MPBH 425Policy Analysis3
Choose one of the following 3BEHL 402Justice & Health CareBEHL 404 Biomedical Ethics and LawBEHL 407Social Determinants of Health and BioethicsBEHL 411 Systems Ethics FrameworksBEHL 412Organizational Ethics I: Business, Professionalism,
and JusticeBEHL 432 Global BioethicsChoose two of the following6
Policy-orientedMPBH 420Public Health Law: Theories and CasesMPBH 424 Health Economics and Healthcare FinancingManagement-orientedMPBH 422 Population Health Planning & ManagementCMAN 533Fiscal Management in Health Care OrganizationsTotal Hours15
Applied Practice Experience (1 credit)
Also known as the MPH practicum, it provides the student with practical
experience in a public health setting, requiring the student to apply
and integrate skills and knowledge learned in courses. The applied
practice experience (APE) must be 210 hours or more. Students must
apply ﬁve program competencies to their APE and produce at least
two deliverables, which will become part of their portfolio. Examples
of APE sites include MRSA Research Center, North Shore Mosquito
Abatement District, Summer Field Research in Ghana, Health and
Medicine Policy Research Group, American Cancer Society, American
Diabetes Association, Chicago Department of Public Health, and Mount
Sinai Hospital.
Integrated Learning Experience (2 credits)
The integrated learning experience is a student-led capstone project
culminating with a presentation and written manuscript. The project
should demonstrate student's ability to apply acquired skills and
competencies to a public health problem that simulates a professional
practice experience. Depending on their interests, some students may
analyze data collected during their practicum to help complete their
capstone.

--- Page 1205 ---
1236  Healthcare Administration/Public Health (BS/MPH)
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate

--- Page 1206 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1237
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•Beyond the health care systems management skills gained in
your undergraduate studies, you will graduate with public health
competencies in the areas of evidence-based approaches, public
health and health care systems, planning and management, policy,
leadership, communication, interprofessional practice, and systems
thinking.
Hispanic Studies (BA/MA)
The accelerated BA/MA program offers well-qualiﬁed Spanish majors
an opportunity to earn both a B.A. in Spanish and an M.A. in Hispanic
Studies. Select high-performing Spanish majors are invited to join the
program, spending a total of ﬁve years examining issues of culture,
language, and power as they traverse the Hispanic world.
Students in the BA/MA program receive comprehensive training in the
languages and cultures of the Hispanic world, increasing their knowledgeof diverse, globally relevant issues in literary, cultural, and linguistic
studies.
With a focus on social justice, the program fosters intellectual debate,
interdisciplinary academic dialogue, and high-level research in areas
including social inequality, race, gender, class, and ethnicity. Students
graduate equipped to succeed as academic researchers, educators, and
in a wide range of other professional roles.
Related Programs
Major
•Spanish (BA)  (p. 582)
Minor
•Spanish Language Minor  (p. 584)
•Spanish Language and Literature Minor  (p. 583)
Curriculum
Requirements for the BA Degree in Spanish (30 Hours)
Students are required to take or have credit for the following courses:
Code Title Hours
Required CoursesSPAN 250Composition & Conversation I3
SPAN 251 Composition & Conversation II 3SPAN 270Introduction to Critical Analysis in Spanish3
SPAN 271 Introduction to Iberian Literature and Culture 3
or SPAN 272 Introduction to Spanish American Literature and
CultureSelect any six courses at the SPAN 300-level, one of which must be
a Latin American topic course and one of which must be an Iberian
(Spain) topic course18Total Hours30
(10 courses for a total of 30 credit hours)
Requirements for the MA Degree in Spanish (30 Hours)
Students are required to complete:
•ten graduate-level courses
•a two-part comprehensive exam, written and oral
•or nine graduate-level courses and a Masters thesis
The following exceptions apply, and are dependent upon approval of the
Graduate Program Director:
•students may transfer up to two graduate-level classes (six credit
hours) from another institution toward their LUC degree
•students may take up to two LUC graduate seminars (six credit
hours) in another department
•students who have the Graduate Program Director’s permission
to write a Masters thesis will complete nine courses, or 27
hours of course work, plus the credit-bearing thesis research
course,  SPAN 501 Thesis Research , for three credit hours (please see
the department's Thesis Guidelines)

--- Page 1207 ---
1238  Hispanic Studies (BA/MA)
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Schema of how students progress through this program in four and a half
or ﬁve years by earning 30 hours for the B.A. and 30 hours for the M.A. in
Hispanic Studies:
Suggested Sequence of Courses (Completing in 4 ½ Years)
Student enters LUC with credit for  SPAN 250 Composition & Conversation
I & SPAN 251 Composition & Conversation II
Course Title Hours
First Year
FallSPAN 270Introduction to Critical Analysis in Spanish3 Hours3
SpringSPAN 271 
or SPAN 272Introduction to Iberian Literature and
Culture 
or Introduction to Spanish American
Literature and Culture3 Hours3
Second Year
FallSPAN 300-level
courseLatin American topic course3 Hours3
SpringSPAN 300-level
courseIberian/Spain topic course3 Hours3
Third Year
FallSPAN 300-level
course3 Hours3
Spring
SPAN 300-level
course3Apply to begin the ABM (BA/MA) in Spanish  Hours3
Fourth Year
FallSPAN 400-level
course(credit for both the major and the M.A.)3
SPAN 400-level
course(credit for both the major and the M.A.) 3Major accomplished / all further credits apply to M.A.  Hours6
SpringSPAN 400-level
course3SPAN 400-level
course3 Hours6
Summer
SPAN 400-level
courseindependent study 3Credits can be earned on the main campus or through study
abroad3 Hours6
Fifth Year
FallSPAN 400-level
course3
SPAN 400-level
course3SPAN 400-level
course3400-level course in another LUC dept3 Hours12 Total Hours48
Suggested Sequence of Courses (Standard - Completing in 5 Years)
Course Title Hours
First Year
SpringSPAN 251Composition & Conversation II3 Hours3
FallSPAN 250Composition & Conversation I3 Hours3
Second Year
SpringSPAN 271 
or SPAN 272Introduction to Iberian Literature and
Culture 
or Introduction to Spanish American
Literature and Culture3 Hours3
FallSPAN 270Introduction to Critical Analysis in Spanish3 Hours3
Third Year
Spring
SPAN 300-level
course3Apply to begin the ABM (BA/MA) in Spanish  Hours3
FallSPAN 300-level
courseLatin American topic course3SPAN 300-level
courseIberian/Spain topic course (or spring)3 Hours6

--- Page 1208 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1239
Fourth Year
Spring
SPAN 400-level
course(credit for both the major and the M.A.) 3SPAN 400-level
course(credit for both the major and the M.A.)3 Hours6
FallSPAN 400-level
course(credit for both the major and the M.A.)3SPAN 400-level
course(credit for both the major and the M.A.)3 Hours6
Fifth Year
Spring
SPAN 400-level
course3SPAN 400-level
course3400-level course in another LUC dept3 Hours9
Fall
SPAN 400-level
course3SPAN 400-level
course3400-level course in another LUC dept3 Hours9 Total Hours51
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credithours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that

--- Page 1209 ---
1240  History (BA/MA)
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Studentsin these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•Acquiring advanced knowledge in the ﬁeld, producing scholarship
that engages in critical thinking, and demonstrating ethical thinking
and responsible conduct.
History (BA/MA)
The combined BA and MA degree program in History integrates
Loyola University Chicago’s (LUC) current History degree programs
at the undergraduate and master levels. The program provides the
most capable History majors with the opportunity to more efﬁciently
move through two degrees and thereby jump-start their professional
development by completing two degrees in ﬁve rather than six years.
Graduates of this program are well prepared to pursue a PhD in History, to
apply to a professional school, or to seek a teaching position at the post-
secondary level.
The combined degree is available for only the MA degree in History
(not the program for the MA in Public History or the dual degree Public
History/MLIS degree with Dominican University).
Related Programs
Major
•History (BA)  (p. 503)
Minor
•History Minor  (p. 506)
Combined
•History/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1245 )
Curriculum
Students in a BA/MA program begin graduate courses during the ﬁrst
semester of their senior year. To complete the program, students will
have to earn a total of 30 credit hours during their senior year and
graduate career. Twelve of those hours can count towards both the
undergraduate major and the graduate degree.  No graduate courses will
be taken during the freshman, sophomore, or junior years.
Pre-requisites:  Students in the combined degree program begin their
senior year with 27–30 total credits in their History major, including the
successful completion of  HIST 299 Historical Methods .
Please note:  Only 12 hours at the graduate level can be completed during
the senior year. All other graduate courses  must  be taken during the
graduate year.

--- Page 1210 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1241
Code Title Hours
Introductory (Core) Courses 6Select two courses, one from each of the following categories:Tier 1 Foundational Historical KnowledgeHIST 101Culture, Power and Identity: Western Ideas &
Institutions to 17th CenturyHIST 102 Culture, Power and Identity: Western Ideas &
Institutions from 17th CenturyHIST 103American PluralismHIST 104 Global History Since 1500HONR 101Western Traditions - Antiquity to the Middle AgesHONR 102 Western Traditions-Renaissance to ModernityTier 2 Historical KnowledgeHIST 208 East Asian History: Themes & IssuesHIST 208XPre-Modern Chinese HistoryHIST 208Z Modern Chinese HistoryHIST 209Islamic History: Themes & IssuesHIST 210 Latin American History: Themes & IssuesHIST 211US History to 1865: Themes & IssuesHIST 212 US History since 1865: Themes & IssuesHIST 213African History: Themes & IssuesSelected Honors Courses: HONR 203A, HONR 203B, HONR 203C,
HONR 208A, HONR 208B, HONR 208C, HONR 209A, HONR 209B,
HONR 209C, HONR 210A, HONR 210B, HONR 210C, HONR 212A,
HONR 212B, HONR 212CMethods Course3
HIST 299 Historical MethodsRequired Areas12
Select four Upper-Level Courses, one from each of the following:  1Upper-Level Pre-Modern History  (p. 1242 ) (see descriptions
below)Upper-Level Modern European History  (p. 1242 ) (see descriptions
below)Upper-Level World History  (p. 1242 ) (see descriptions below)Upper-Level U.S. History  (p. 1243 ) (see descriptions below)Undergraduate Elective3
Select any history course at any level:HIST 101 - HIST 399  1CLST 362 Roman LawECON 327American Economic & Business HistoryTHEO 317 Christian Thought: Ancient-MedievalTHEO 318Christian Thought: Reformation to ModernSelected Honors Classes: HONR 101, HONR 102, HONR 203A,
HONR 203B, HONR 203C, HONR 208A, HONR 208B, HONR 208C,
HONR 209A, HONR 209B, HONR 209C, HONR 210A, HONR 210B,
HONR 210C, HONR 212A, HONR 212B, HONR 212CRequired Graduate Courses12
HIST 400 Contemporary Approaches to HistoryHIST 450Nineteenth Century AmericaHIST 461 Twentieth Century America400-Level ElectiveRequired Research Courses 6500-Level Research Course500-Level Course or HIST 599Minor Field Courses9
400-Level Minor Field Course I400-Level Minor Field Course II400-Level Minor Field Course IIIElective 13400-Level ElectiveTotal Hours54
1See Undergraduate Course Listings  (p. 487) for detailed information
about courses.
Additional BA Requirements
Residency Requirements
•At least 6 courses for this major must be successfully completed in
residence at Loyola University Chicago.
•At least 4 300-level courses for this major must be successfully
completed in residence at Loyola University Chicago.
Portfolio
Every history major must build a portfolio over the course of his/
her undergraduate studies. The student must upload the  two
required  documents  listed below to a History Department website
by Friday of the last week of classes prior to graduation.  For more
information, please contact the History Department Undergraduate
Program Director.  The required documents are:
1.A historiographical essay (typically a paper from  HIST 299 Historical
Methods ). This paper must both summarize and evaluate historians’
principal arguments about a particular topic.
2.A 300-level Research Paper with a  bibliography . This paper --- a
minimum of 12-15 pages, usually from a 300-level course --- makes
use of both primary and secondary sources to prove a historical
thesis. All good historical writing has a thesis that the author seeks
to establish through interpretation of the primary source evidence. In
lieu of uploading a 300-level research paper, students have the option
of submitting a platform appropriate project such as a public history
or digital history project that makes an analytical argument based on
both primary and secondary sources to prove a historical thesis. 
Students should submit papers that showcase their best work.
Research Tool Requirement
All master's level students must demonstrate competence in a research
skill (oral history, public history media, or a reading knowledge of a
foreign language, for example) appropriate to their major ﬁeld. They
are expected to master this skill before advancing beyond 18 credit
hours. Coursework taken to master a language or for oral history and
public history media if used for a research tool does not apply toward
graduation.
Examinations
Toward the end of their graduate program, students must pass a take-
home written examination in the major ﬁeld. The student will produce two
10–15 page historiographical essays based on a reading list developed
in conjunction with a two-member committee of history faculty of
their choosing. The committee should be established no later than
the beginning of the semester in which the student intends to t ake the
examination. Students will have one week to complete the exam, which
will be evaluated by the student’s examination committee. In addition,

--- Page 1211 ---
1242  History (BA/MA)
students satisfy the examination requirements in the minor ﬁeld through
earning nine credit hours with at least a B (3.0) average.
Required Areas: Upper-Level Pre-Modern History
Courses
Code Title Hours
Students must take at least one of the courses below as part of the
Required AreasHIST 253ABarbarians and the Fall of the Roman Empire3
HIST 254A The Vikings 3HIST 257AWitchcraft and Science in Pre-Modern Europe3
HIST 258A Blood, Heresy, and Treason: The Tudors and
Stuarts3HIST 300BTopics in Premodern History3
HIST 301 Plagues: The Black Death and Other Pandemics 3HIST 303Pre-Industrial City in Europe3
HIST 307 Greece to Alexander the Great 3HIST 308AHistory of Rome to Constantine3
HIST 308B Pompeii and Herculaneum 3HIST 308CHistory of Early Christianity3
HIST 308D Transformations of Rome in Late Antiquity 3HIST 309Shipwreck Archaeology3
HIST 310 The Middle Ages 3HIST 310AMedieval World 1100-15003
HIST 310B Medieval Culture 3HIST 310CMedieval Women3
HIST 310D Medieval Popular Religion 3HIST 310FMedieval Inquisitions and Heresy3
HIST 310G Supernatural in the Middle Ages 3HIST 310LLove and Violence in Medieval Culture and Society3
HIST 311B The Crusades: Christianity and Islam 3HIST 312England to 14853
HIST 314 Renaissance 3HIST 314AThe Jesuits: Life and History3
HIST 315 The Reformation 3HIST 316History of Poland3
HIST 317 Age of Absolutism & the Enlightenment 3HIST 318AEarly Modern England 1485-17603
HIST 318B English Social History 1450-1750 3HIST 318CLondon 1550 - 17153
HIST 342A African History to 1600 3HIST 345ATraditional China from Antiquity to 15503
CLST 362 Roman Law 3THEO 317Christian Thought: Ancient-Medieval3
Required Areas: Upper-Level Modern Europe Courses
Code Title Hours
Students must take at least one of the courses below as part of the
Required AreasHIST 265AThe First World War3
HIST 267A Modern German Culture and Ideas I 3HIST 267BModern German Culture and Ideas II3
HIST 300C Topics in European History (Post-1700) 3HIST 320Era French Revolution & Napoleon3
HIST 321 19th Century European Culture and Ideas 3HIST 322Modern France: From Empire to Postcolonial
Nation3
HIST 324 Italy 19th & 20th Centuries 3HIST 325Modern Britain: Empire, Industry, Democracy3
HIST 325A The British Empire: From Barbados to Brexit 3HIST 326Ireland: Colony to Nation State3
HIST 327A The Balkans: History, Fiction, Film 3HIST 328Russia Pre-1917: Empire Building3
HIST 328A Russian Empire and Literature 3HIST 329Women's Sphere in Past Society3
HIST 329C Empire, Sex, Violence: European Colonial History 3HIST 329NModern European Nationalism: Myth and Reality3
HIST 330 Europe in the Age of Catastrophe, 1900-1945 3HIST 330FFascinating Fascism:  1919 to the Present3
HIST 331A Food, Hunger, and Power in the Modern World 3HIST 334AThe Nazi Revolution3
HIST 334B The Holocaust: History and Memory 3HIST 335The Second World War3
HIST 336 Contemporary Europe 1945 to Present 3HIST 337Rise & Fall of Soviet Union3
HIST 337A Women in Russia and Eurasia, 1860-Present 3HIST 338AHistory of European Communism3
HIST 338B Eastern Europe in the 20th Century 3HIST 339CModern Europe and the Arts3
HIST 339F History of Feminist Thought and Social Action 3THEO 318Christian Thought: Reformation to Modern3
Required Areas: Upper-Level World History Courses
Code Title Hours
Students must take at least one of the courses below as part of the
Required AreasHIST 275AThe Silk Roads: Global Trade, Culture, & Politics3
HIST 278A Violence Drug Trafﬁcking & Crime in Latin America 3HIST 279CHistory of Computing3
HIST 279E Climate and History 3HIST 300ETopics in World History3
HIST 340B Introduction to Islamic History 3HIST 341Modern Middle East3
HIST 341B Arab-Israeli Conflict 3HIST 341CTunisia On-Site: Arab Spring, Democratic Change,
Islam3
HIST 342B African History Post-1600 3HIST 342CThe History of Islam in Africa3
HIST 342D African Diaspora in the Middle East and South Asia 3HIST 342MAfrican Music's Influence on American Music3
HIST 343 Modern South Asia 3HIST 346AEarly Modern China: 1550-18003
HIST 346B Reform & Revolution in China, 1800-1949 3HIST 346CHistory of Christianity in China3
HIST 347A China Since 1949: The People's Republic 3HIST 347CCultural Revolution-China3

--- Page 1212 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1243
HIST 347D Modern Chinese History through Film 3HIST 349Contemporary Global Issues: Historical
Perspectives3
HIST 349A Women in East Asia 3HIST 350Colonial Latin America3
HIST 351 Latin American Independence, 1750-1830 3HIST 352Latin America in the 19th Century3
HIST 353 Latin America in Recent Times 3HIST 355The Caribbean & Central America in Colonial/
Modern Times3
HIST 356 Mexican History-Ancient to Modern Times 3HIST 357The Mexican Revolution in Popular Imagination3
HIST 358 Women in Latin American History 3HIST 359Teaching World History3
HIST 359C Nationalist Politics: A Global Perspective 3HIST 359DThe Ottoman Empire: A Global Perspective3
HIST 359E Concentration Camps: A Global History 3HIST 359FGenocides in the Modern World3
HIST 359H Anti-Colonial Resistance in the Twentieth Century 3
Required Areas: Upper-Level U.S. History Courses
Code Title Hours
Students must take at least one of the courses below as part of the
Required AreasHIST 280APirates and Sailors in the Revolutionary Atlantic3
HIST 290A History of Sexuality in the United States 3HIST 291AAmerican Icons: Heroes, Images, Ideas3
HIST 297E North American Environmental History 3HIST 298AHistory and the Public: Intro to Public History3
HIST 300D Topics in U.S. History 3HIST 360Community and Culture in Colonial America3
HIST 360A Slavery and Abolition: Then & Now 3HIST 361The American Revolution, 1763-18153
HIST 362 America in the Age of Slavery and Capitalism 3HIST 363Civil War & Reconstruction 1850-18773
HIST 366A World War I and American Culture 3HIST 367United States from Great Depression to Recession3
HIST 369 20th Century Popular Culture 3HIST 370American Business, Wealth, and Inequality3
HIST 372 American Constitutional & Legal History to 1865 3HIST 373US Law & Public Policy3
HIST 373A Crime and Punishment 3HIST 374Black Politics3
HIST 375 Digital History 3HIST 376History of the American Frontier Movement3
HIST 376A History of the American Indian 3HIST 377African American Women's History3
HIST 378 Latina/o History 3HIST 379AItalian Americans in World War II3
HIST 379B History of Italians in Chicago 3HIST 380Introduction to African-American History3
HIST 380A Islam in the African-American Experience 3HIST 381Rebels & Reformers in U.S. History3HIST 382 Teaching Race, Class, and Gender 3HIST 384Irish Diaspora in America3
HIST 385 Chicago in America 3HIST 386Creation the American Metropolis3
HIST 388 U.S. Wars 3HIST 388AVietnam War3
HIST 389B Topic: Gender, Race, & Class in US History 3HIST 389CGender Benders3
HIST 389F The Sixties 3HIST 389KAutobiography and Memoir in Recent US History3
HIST 389N Anti-Immigrant Politics in U.S. History 3HIST 389WRaces to the White House: Presidential History3
ECON 327 American Economic & Business History 3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
There is no set sequence of classes.  Students are encouraged to take
at least two Introductory (Core) Classes before taking upper division
classes. BA/MA students must take  HIST 299  prior to enrolling in the
program; i t is strongly suggested that students take HIST 299 at the end
of their sophomore or beginning of their junior year. Once students have
declared the History Major, they are encouraged to contact their History
Advisor or the History Department’s Undergraduate Program Director for
further guidance on how best to progress with their studies, including
their interest in the BA/MA program in History.
This course distribution reflects a student entering the BA/MA Program
on the traditional pathway, i.e., starting in the Fall of the senior year
and taking courses in both semesters of the senior year. Students
who graduate in the Fall of their senior year or who have a signiﬁcant
amount of transfer credit will have a schedule that reflects their more
individualized pathway. They may not, for example, be able to take all
12 of the hours allowed during their senior year and, as a result, their
particular degree completion plan may vary from the plan outlined below.
Course Title Hours
Freshman
FallFoundational Historical Knowledge Course3 Hours3
SpringTier 2 Historical Knowledge Course3 Hours3
Sophomore
FallUpper Level World History (see course list below)3 Hours3
Spring
HIST 299 Historical Methods 3Upper-Level Pre-Modern Course (see course list below)3 Hours6
Junior
FallUpper-Level Modern Europe Course (see course list below)3Elective 13 Hours6

--- Page 1213 ---
1244  History (BA/MA)
Spring
Upper-Level US History Course (see course list below) 3Elective 2  Hours3
Senior
FallHIST 400Contemporary Approaches to History3HIST 450Nineteenth Century America3 Hours6
Spring
HIST 461 Twentieth Century America 3500-Level Research Course3 Hours6
Master's
Fall400-Level Minor Field I3
400-Level Minor Field II 3400-Level Required Course3 Hours9
Spring400-Level Minor Field III3
400-Level Elective 3500-Level Research Course3 Hours9 Total Hours54
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA thatis at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions

--- Page 1214 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1245
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degreecompletion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•Apply the necessary skills to produce original scholarship on a
chosen historical topic using primary sources while evaluating the
validity of context and biases of primary and secondary sources.
•Identify and criticize interpretive paradigms and methodologies
relevant to historical scholarship and the historical profession.
History/International Affairs (BA/MA)
The growing interconnectedness of the world’s almost 200 countries,
termed globalization, and the rising impacts of foreign affairs on our
daily lives increasingly require individuals with advanced knowledge of
International Affairs. The Accelerated BA/MA in History and International
Affairs allows students to explore global problems and interactions
from an interdisciplinary perspective that makes use of eight Arts and
Sciences academic departments and four additional colleges. Students
will have the flexibility to tailor their program to ﬁt their individual
interests. Students can fulﬁll a capstone experience by participating in an
internship, taking a study abroad class, writing a paper for publication, or
writing a master’s thesis.
Loyola University Chicago and the City of Chicago together serve as the
ideal location for an MA in International Affairs: Loyola embodies a long
commitment to interdisciplinary education; and Chicago is consistently
ranked as one of the top ten global cities in the world. The program offers
a unique urban setting for students interested in the advanced study of
International Affairs.
The majority of full-time students are expected to ﬁnish the program
in 5 years, as opposed to the six years if both programs are pursued
separately. Undergraduate students from participating programs at
Loyola will be able to pursue an accelerated BA/MA in History and
International Affairs.
Students will also be able to take graduate courses in the School of
Communication, the School of Education (International Education), the
School of Law, Parkinson School of Health Sciences and Public Health,
Quinlan School of Business, and the School of Social Work.
Related Programs
Major
•History (BA)  (p. 503)
Combined
•History (BA/MA)  (p. 1240 )
Curriculum
For the BA, students will complete requirements for the Bachelor's
degree, and graduate level courses may be used as electives.  For the MA,
students will take a total of ten classes (30 credit hours) to complete the
program: Four required core classes, including a capstone experience,
and an additional six elective classes, with no more than three offered by

--- Page 1215 ---
1246  History/International Affairs (BA/MA)
a single department in the College of Arts & Sciences or another School
at Loyola.
Code Title Hours
Required BA CoursesIntroductory (Core) CoursesSelect two courses, one from each of the following categories: 6Tier 1 Foundational Historical KnowledgeHIST 101 Culture, Power and Identity: Western Ideas &
Institutions to 17th CenturyHIST 102Culture, Power and Identity: Western Ideas &
Institutions from 17th CenturyHIST 103 American PluralismHIST 104Global History Since 1500HONR 101 Western Traditions - Antiquity to the Middle AgesHONR 102Western Traditions-Renaissance to ModernityTier 2 Historical KnowledgeHIST 208East Asian History: Themes & IssuesHIST 208X Pre-Modern Chinese HistoryHIST 208ZModern Chinese HistoryHIST 209 Islamic History: Themes & IssuesHIST 210Latin American History: Themes & IssuesHIST 211 US History to 1865: Themes & IssuesHIST 212US History since 1865: Themes & IssuesHIST 213 African History: Themes & IssuesSelected Honors Courses: HONR 203A, HONR 203B, HONR 203C,
HONR 208A, HONR 208B, HONR 208C, HONR 209A, HONR 209B,
HONR 209C, HONR 210A, HONR 210B, HONR 210C, HONR 212A,
HONR 212B, HONR 212CMethods CoursesSelect one of the following:3
HIST 299 Historical Methods 1INDS 380Newberry Seminar 2Required AreasSelect four Upper-Level Courses, one from each of the following:12
Upper-Level Pre-Modern History  (p. 1247 ) (see course list below)Upper-Level Modern European History  (p. 1247 ) (see course list
below)Upper-Level U.S. History  (p. 1247 ) (see course list below)Upper-Level World History  (p. 1247 ) (see course list below)Elective Courses  3Select any history courses at any level:  415
HIST 101 - HIST 399  5CLST 362Roman LawECON 327 American Economic & Business HistoryTHEO 317Christian Thought: Ancient-MedievalTHEO 318 Christian Thought: Reformation to ModernSelected Honors Classes: HONR 101, HONR 102, HONR 203A,
HONR 203B, HONR 203C, HONR 208A, HONR 208B, HONR 208C,
HONR 209A, HONR 209B, HONR 209C, HONR 210A, HONR 210B,
HONR 210C, HONR 212A, HONR 212B, HONR 212CRequired MA CoursesCOREINTA 420 Comparative Political Systems 3INTA 430Theories of International Politics3
INTA 475 Political Analysis I 3Capstone Experience3
Select one of the following:INTA 470Fieldwork in PLSC-InternshipPLSC 499 Directed ReadingsPLSC 605Master's StudyElectives  (p. 1248 ) 318In addition to the four core classes, students will take an additional
six elective courses, with no more than three offered by a single
department in the College of Arts and Sciences or another School
at Loyola. The core INTA courses in Political Science do not count
toward this three-course total, and thus a student may take three
Political Science courses in addition to the three core (required)
courses.Total Hours60
1To register for HIST 299 Historical Methods  Historical Methods, please
contact the History Department Administrative Assistant.
2For information on the Newberry Seminar, please contact the Dr.
Shermer at eshermer@luc.edu .
3Two Graduate-level International Affairs courses must be taken
Senior Year. These courses can count as major electives or general
electives. These two courses double-count for International Affairs MA
requirements.
4One of which can be HIST 398 History Internship .
5Any 100-level, 200-level, or 300-level history course can count toward
the electives if not used for another requirement in the major.
The participating programs that will contribute classes include: Global
Studies, History, Philosophy, Political Science, Psychology, Sociology,
and Theology, Criminal Justice & Criminology, as well as the Schools of
Communication, Education, Business, Law, Health Sciences and Public
Health, and Social Work.
Additional BA Requirements
Residency Requirements
•At least 6 courses for this major must be successfully completed in
residence at Loyola University Chicago.
•At least 4 300-level courses for this major must be successfully
completed in residence at Loyola University Chicago.
Portfolio
Every history major must build a portfolio over the course of his/
her undergraduate studies. The student must upload the  two
required  documents  listed below to a History Department website
by Friday of the last week of classes prior to graduation.  For more
information, please contact the History Department Undergraduate
Program Director.  The required documents are:
1.A historiographical essay (typically a paper from  HIST 299 Historical
Methods ). This paper must both summarize and evaluate historians’
principal arguments about a particular topic.
2.A 300-level Research Paper with a  bibliography . This paper --- a
minimum of 12-15 pages, usually from a 300-level course --- makes
use of both primary and secondary sources to prove a historical
thesis. All good historical writing has a thesis that the author seeks
to establish through interpretation of the primary source evidence. In
lieu of uploading a 300-level research paper, students have the option
of submitting a platform appropriate project such as a public history

--- Page 1216 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1247
or digital history project that makes an analytical argument based on
both primary and secondary sources to prove a historical thesis. 
Students should submit papers that showcase their best work.
BA Required Areas
Students must take at least one of the course from each of the BA
Required Areas.
Upper-Level Pre-Modern History Courses
Code Title Hours
HIST 253A Barbarians and the Fall of the Roman Empire 3HIST 254AThe Vikings3
HIST 257A Witchcraft and Science in Pre-Modern Europe 3HIST 258ABlood, Heresy, and Treason: The Tudors and
Stuarts3
HIST 300B Topics in Premodern History 3HIST 301Plagues: The Black Death and Other Pandemics3
HIST 303 Pre-Industrial City in Europe 3HIST 307Greece to Alexander the Great3
HIST 308A History of Rome to Constantine 3HIST 308BPompeii and Herculaneum3
HIST 308C History of Early Christianity 3HIST 308DTransformations of Rome in Late Antiquity3
HIST 309 Shipwreck Archaeology 3HIST 310The Middle Ages3
HIST 310A Medieval World 1100-1500 3HIST 310BMedieval Culture3
HIST 310C Medieval Women 3HIST 310DMedieval Popular Religion3
HIST 310F Medieval Inquisitions and Heresy 3HIST 310GSupernatural in the Middle Ages3
HIST 310L Love and Violence in Medieval Culture and Society 3HIST 311BThe Crusades: Christianity and Islam3
HIST 312 England to 1485 3HIST 314Renaissance3
HIST 314A The Jesuits: Life and History 3HIST 315The Reformation3
HIST 316 History of Poland 3HIST 317Age of Absolutism & the Enlightenment3
HIST 318A Early Modern England 1485-1760 3HIST 318BEnglish Social History 1450-17503
HIST 318C London 1550 - 1715 3HIST 342AAfrican History to 16003
HIST 345A Traditional China from Antiquity to 1550 3CLST 362Roman Law3
THEO 317 Christian Thought: Ancient-Medieval 3
Upper-Level Modern Europe Courses
Code Title Hours
HIST 265A The First World War 3HIST 267AModern German Culture and Ideas I3
HIST 267B Modern German Culture and Ideas II 3HIST 300CTopics in European History (Post-1700)3
HIST 320 Era French Revolution & Napoleon 3HIST 32119th Century European Culture and Ideas3
HIST 322 Modern France: From Empire to Postcolonial
Nation3HIST 324Italy 19th & 20th Centuries3
HIST 325 Modern Britain: Empire, Industry, Democracy 3HIST 325AThe British Empire: From Barbados to Brexit3
HIST 326 Ireland: Colony to Nation State 3HIST 327AThe Balkans: History, Fiction, Film3
HIST 328 Russia Pre-1917: Empire Building 3HIST 328ARussian Empire and Literature3
HIST 329 Women's Sphere in Past Society 3HIST 329CEmpire, Sex, Violence: European Colonial History3
HIST 329N Modern European Nationalism: Myth and Reality 3HIST 330Europe in the Age of Catastrophe, 1900-19453
HIST 330F Fascinating Fascism:  1919 to the Present 3HIST 331AFood, Hunger, and Power in the Modern World3
HIST 334A The Nazi Revolution 3HIST 334BThe Holocaust: History and Memory3
HIST 335 The Second World War 3HIST 336Contemporary Europe 1945 to Present3
HIST 337 Rise & Fall of Soviet Union 3HIST 337AWomen in Russia and Eurasia, 1860-Present3
HIST 338A History of European Communism 3HIST 338BEastern Europe in the 20th Century3
HIST 339C Modern Europe and the Arts 3HIST 339FHistory of Feminist Thought and Social Action3
THEO 318 Christian Thought: Reformation to Modern 3
Upper-Level World History Courses
Code Title Hours
HIST 275A The Silk Roads: Global Trade, Culture, & Politics 3HIST 278AViolence Drug Trafﬁcking & Crime in Latin America3
HIST 279C History of Computing 3HIST 279EClimate and History3
HIST 300E Topics in World History 3HIST 340BIntroduction to Islamic History3
HIST 341 Modern Middle East 3HIST 341BArab-Israeli Conflict3
HIST 341C Tunisia On-Site: Arab Spring, Democratic Change,
Islam3HIST 342BAfrican History Post-16003
HIST 342C The History of Islam in Africa 3HIST 342DAfrican Diaspora in the Middle East and South Asia3
HIST 342M African Music's Influence on American Music 3HIST 343Modern South Asia3
HIST 346A Early Modern China: 1550-1800 3HIST 346BReform & Revolution in China, 1800-19493
HIST 346C History of Christianity in China 3HIST 347AChina Since 1949: The People's Republic3
HIST 347C Cultural Revolution-China 3HIST 347DModern Chinese History through Film3
HIST 349 Contemporary Global Issues: Historical
Perspectives3

--- Page 1217 ---
1248  History/International Affairs (BA/MA)HIST 349AWomen in East Asia3
HIST 350 Colonial Latin America 3HIST 351Latin American Independence, 1750-18303
HIST 352 Latin America in the 19th Century 3HIST 353Latin America in Recent Times3
HIST 355 The Caribbean & Central America in Colonial/
Modern Times3HIST 356Mexican History-Ancient to Modern Times3
HIST 357 The Mexican Revolution in Popular Imagination 3HIST 358Women in Latin American History3
HIST 359 Teaching World History 3HIST 359CNationalist Politics: A Global Perspective3
HIST 359D The Ottoman Empire: A Global Perspective 3HIST 359EConcentration Camps: A Global History3
HIST 359F Genocides in the Modern World 3HIST 359HAnti-Colonial Resistance in the Twentieth Century3
Upper-Level U.S. History Courses
Code Title Hours
HIST 280A Pirates and Sailors in the Revolutionary Atlantic 3HIST 290AHistory of Sexuality in the United States3
HIST 291A American Icons: Heroes, Images, Ideas 3HIST 297ENorth American Environmental History3
HIST 298A History and the Public: Intro to Public History 3HIST 300DTopics in U.S. History3
HIST 360 Community and Culture in Colonial America 3HIST 360ASlavery and Abolition: Then & Now3
HIST 361 The American Revolution, 1763-1815 3HIST 362America in the Age of Slavery and Capitalism3
HIST 363 Civil War & Reconstruction 1850-1877 3HIST 366AWorld War I and American Culture3
HIST 367 United States from Great Depression to Recession 3HIST 36920th Century Popular Culture3
HIST 370 American Business, Wealth, and Inequality 3HIST 372American Constitutional & Legal History to 18653
HIST 373 US Law & Public Policy 3HIST 373ACrime and Punishment3
HIST 374 Black Politics 3HIST 375Digital History3
HIST 376 History of the American Frontier Movement 3HIST 376AHistory of the American Indian3
HIST 377 African American Women's History 3HIST 378Latina/o History3
HIST 379A Italian Americans in World War II 3HIST 379BHistory of Italians in Chicago3
HIST 380 Introduction to African-American History 3HIST 380AIslam in the African-American Experience3
HIST 381 Rebels & Reformers in U.S. History 3HIST 382Teaching Race, Class, and Gender3
HIST 384 Irish Diaspora in America 3HIST 385Chicago in America3
HIST 386 Creation the American Metropolis 3HIST 388U.S. Wars3HIST 388A Vietnam War 3HIST 389BTopic: Gender, Race, & Class in US History3
HIST 389C Gender Benders 3HIST 389FThe Sixties3
HIST 389K Autobiography and Memoir in Recent US History 3HIST 389NAnti-Immigrant Politics in U.S. History3
HIST 389W Races to the White House: Presidential History 3ECON 327American Economic & Business History3
List of MA Elective Courses
Please note that the courses listed might not be offered every year and
new courses may be added to this list. Students should talk with the
Graduate Program Director if they want to take a course that is not on
the list of elective courses to see whether the course can serve as an
elective.
College of Arts and Sciences
Code Title Hours
Criminal Justice and Criminology DepartmentCJC 416International Criminal Justice3
Methods CoursesCJC 403Research Methods and Program Evaluation3
CJC 404 Applied Data Analysis and Interpretation 4History DepartmentHIST 441 Women's & Gender History: Europe 3HIST 459Environmental History3
HIST 464 Transnational Urban History 3Methods CoursesHIST 483 Oral History: Method and Practice 3Modern Languages and Literatures DepartmentLanguage Research Tool: Although there is no language requirement,
students interested in honing their foreign language skills will have
the option of taking a 400-level language course (i.e., a course
beyond 101, 102, 103, and 104), and having that course count as one
of the six elective courses. Current language possibilities offered at
Loyola include Chinese, French, German, Italian, and Spanish.MLL also offers graduate-level courses in Spanish as part of their
master’s degree in Spanish. These courses are as follows and would
be open only to interested students with advanced writing, speaking,
and reading skills in Spanish. These courses are as follows:SPAN 405 Critical Methods (pan-Hispanic world) 3SPAN 490Hispanic Culture & Civilization (Latin American
ﬁlm, with a focus on human rights)3
Philosophy DepartmentPHIL 459Philosophy of Law3
PHIL 463 Virtue Ethics (includes non-Western philosophy) 3PHIL TBDCritical Race Theory (originally taught as a “special
topics” course; is being turned into a permanent
course)PHIL 480 Social & Political Philosophy (focuses on global
development on a regular basis)3Methods CoursesPHIL 400 Philosophy Research Tools 3Political Science DepartmentPLSC 421 Democratic Political Systems 3PLSC 422Authoritarian Political Systems3

--- Page 1218 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1249
PLSC 431 Formulation US Foreign Policy 3PLSC 432Comparative Foreign Policy Analysis3
PLSC 433 International Organization 3PLSC 435International Political Economics3
PLSC 436 International Conflict 3Methods CoursesPLSC 401 Intro to Research Design & Method 3PLSC 476Political Analysis II3
Psychology DepartmentPSYC 460Social Psychological Theory3
PSYC 461 Attitude and Attitude Change 3PSYC 474Research in Group Dynamics3
PSYC 484 Prejudice and Intergroup Relations 3Methods CoursesPSYC 486 Methods of Program Evaluation 3Sociology DepartmentSOCL 418 Demography 3SOCL 423Social Movements3
SOCL 426 Sociology of Gender 3SOCL 441Sociology of Religion3
SOCL 447 Sociology of Culture 3SOCL 461Race & Ethnicity3
Methods CoursesSOCL 410Logic of Sociological Inquiry3
SOCL 412 Qualitative Methods in Social Research 3SOCL 414Statistical Methods Analysis I3
SOCL 415 Statistical Methods of Analysis II 3Theology DepartmentTHEO 459 Contemporary Theology 1-12THEO 460Seminar in History of Theology1-12
THEO 464 Religion & Politics in Christian History 3THEO 470Foundations Crititical Issues Theological Ethics1-12
THEO 480 Seminar in Christian Ethics 1-12
School of Education (International Education)
Code Title Hours
ELPS 405 Introduction to Educational Policy Analysis 3ELPS 448International Higher Education3
ELPS 455 Comparative Education 3ELPS 540Seminar in the History of Education3
ELPS 550 Seminar on Globalization and Education 3ELPS 555Seminar Comparative Education3
 School of Communication
Code Title Hours
COMM 401 Foundations of Global Strategic Communication 3COMM 402Organizational Leadership and Change
Management3
COMM 422 Global and Multicultural Audiences and
Stakeholders3School of Social Work
Code Title Hours
SOWK 502 Power, Oppression, Privilege, and Social Justice 3SOWK 654Global Social Work: Reflective Practice for Justice
and Peace3
SOWK 730 Immigration Dynamics and U.S. Social Policy 3SOWK 731Social Work Practice with Refugees and
Immigrants3
SOWK 732 Migration, Social Justice, and Human Rights 3SOWK 733North American Migration Dynamics, Challenges &
Opportunity1-3
School of Law 
Code Title Hours
LAW 176 International Trade Law 11-3LAW 371International Business Trans 11-3
LAW 372 International Law and Practice 3LAW 388Global Access to Medicine: A Patent Perspective3
LAW 459 Intro to English Legal Profession 1LAW 568European Union Law 11-3
1Explanatory note about 1, 2, 3, and variable credit hour courses from
the School of Law: “For the law courses showing a range of hours (e.g.,
1-3 credit hours), students have the option to choose the number of
credits for enrollment within the range. For students opting for the
higher credits (i.e., enrollment in 3 credit hours rather than 1 credit hour
would require additional assignments and/or an examination). If the
MA students in these courses need to be enrolled in 3 credit hours,
the following notation can be included with the course listing:  ‘MA
students must choose the 3 credit option for enrollment in this course’. ”
Please note that courses to be included in this MA program will require
students choosing the 3-credit option.
 School of Law - Classes Offered at the John Felice Rome Center
Code Title Hours
PLAW 101 Comparative and Ethical Lawyering for the Rule of
Law3PLAW 102History, Theory and Practice of Rule of Law for
Development3
PLAW 103 Theory and Practice of Assessments in Rule of
Law Advising2PLAW 104International Development Architecture3
PLAW 105 Sustainable Development Through International
Commerce and Investment2PLAW 106Design of Rule of Law Programs and Proposal
Preparation2
PLAW 107 Rule of Law in Conflict Prevention and
Peacebuilding2PLAW 108Legal Systems and Methods3
PLAW 250 Research and Writing on the Rule of Law 3PLAW 907Rule of Law Project Management, Monitoring &
Evaluation3
Parkinson School of Health Sciences and Public Health 
Code Title Hours
MPBH 400 Determinants of Population Health 3MPBH 414Introduction to Global Health3

--- Page 1219 ---
1250  History/International Affairs (BA/MA)
MPBH 417 Global Maternal and Child Health 3MPBH 422Population Health Planning & Management3
MPBH 424 Health Economics and Healthcare Financing 3MPBH 432Health Impact Assessment3
Quinlan School of Business 
Code Title Hours
ECON 424 International Business Economics 3FINC 455International Financial Management3
HRER 422 Global HR Management 3HRER 502Global Employment Relations3
MARK 465 International Marketing 3MARK 461Research Methods in Marketing3
MGMT 446 International Business Ethics 3SCMG 486Global Logistics3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
In order to provide optimal flexibility in the program, there is no
required course sequence. For the History BA, we strongly recommend
that students take HIST 299 as a second-semester sophomore or
ﬁrst-semester junior. For the MA, students are expected to take two
graduate-level  course s in each semester of their senior year and
a total of six graduate-level  course s in their ﬁfth year. There is no
required  course  sequence , but we strongly suggest that students ﬁrst
take the required  course s (PLSC 420, PLSC 430, and PLSC 475) whenever
they are offered before taking elective  course s.
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriatedesignated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the

--- Page 1220 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1251
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not requestdeferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
Students will graduate from our program having achieved:
•a foundation for understanding and critiquing research related to
International Affairs, including methods training that leverages both
qualitative and quantitative data [International Affairs]
•knowledge of the principal theories of comparative politics and
international relations, as well as the key areas of research in these
two subﬁelds [International Affairs]
•an interdisciplinary understanding and appreciation of International
Affairs through coursework available within eight different
departments in the College of Arts and Sciences and four additional
Schools at Loyola [International Affairs]
•enhanced writing and critical thinking skills and dispositions through
class-based projects and a capstone experience [International Affairs]
•strengthened methods, research, or writing skills tailored to students
interests with advanced methods courses, language training, or the
writing of a master’s thesis. [International Affairs]
•Produce analytical arguments by using evidence and facts to
interpret past events, behavior and processes in their own historical
writing and projects. [History]
•Identify the arguments put forth by historians in order to compare,
evaluate and criticize different interpretations of the past. In doing
so, our graduates will be able to evaluate the adequacy of evidence
(including a variety of sources: documents, ﬁlms, diaries, images, oral
and digital histories, etc.) that historians use to make truth claims
about the past. [History]
•Demonstrate an understanding of the processes of historical change
and be able to discuss and evaluate causes, complexities and
consequences of change over time in relationship to historical events
and processes. [History]
•Demonstrate an understanding that human values and beliefs are
shaped by historical context and they will gain the capacity to make
informed judgements about past and present behavior and ideas
with a goal of fashioning a more just world. In this endeavor, students
will gain an understanding of the ethical practices and standards for
historical research and writing. [History]
Information Technology (BA/MS)
The BA/MS Information Technology program is an accelerated program
giving students the opportunity to pursue  admission to and begin classes
for the MS Information Technology while an undergraduate student.  This
program reduces the total number of courses needed and the total time
needed for the combined degrees.   The BA is awarded by the School of
Continuing and Professional Studies and the MS by The Graduate School.
Related Programs
Major
•Information Technology (BS)  (p. 365)

--- Page 1221 ---
1252  Information Technology (BA/MS)
Master's
•Information Technology (MS)  (p. 1587 )
Combined
•Information Technology (BS/MS)  (p. 1254 )
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Information Technology BA Major CoursesCOMP 170Introduction to Object-Oriented Programming3
COMP 251 Introduction to Database Systems 3COMP 271Data Structures I3
COMP 317 Social, Legal, and Ethical Issues in Computing 3CPST 250Foundations of Organizations3
CPST 291 Dynamic Programming Languages 3CPST 310Accounting Principles and Application3
CPST 325 Data Processing, Analysis, and Visualization 3CPST 342Introduction to Web Application Development3
CPST 343 Software Development for Mobile Devices 3CPST 345Introduction to IT : Networking, Cloud & Security3
CPST 349 Project Management 3STAT 103Fundamentals of Statistics3
SCPS CoursesCPST 200Introduction to Degree Completion3
CPST 201 Civic Identity and Development 3CPST 397Capstone3
Core RequirementsThe number of hours remaining toward Core requirements can vary
due to transfer credit.Mission Speciﬁc RequirementsMission speciﬁc requirements can vary from 0 to 15 credit hours
based on your prior credit.General Elective RequirementsStudents may have some general elective coursework to complete
if their transfer credit and remaining required hours (Core, mission
speciﬁc, major, etc.) do not total 120.BA/MS RequirementsStudents may take up to 9 credit hours of 400 level courses
required for the MS Information Technology while an undergraduate
student. The three graduate courses, taken during the students’
senior year will count toward the degree requirements for both the
undergraduate and graduate degree.COMP 417 Social and Ethical Issues in ComputingCOMP 422Software Development for Wireless and Mobile
DevicesCOMP 477 IT Project ManagementInformation Techonology MS RequirementsCOMP 417 Social and Ethical Issues in Computing 3Select Three (3) courses in Track/Major Requirements.  (p. 1252 ) 19Select six (6) graduate level COMP electives  218Total Hours78
1Courses can be substituted at the discretion of the Graduate Program
Director. Substitutions will usually be limited to special-topics courses(COMP 488 Computer Science Topics ) which have learning outcomes
closely related to other courses in the track in question.
2Electives can be any  COMP 400 level class
(p. 1576 ), except the preparation courses
(COMP 400A , COMP 400B , COMP 400C , COMP 400D , COMP 400E ).
Students may take up to a maximum of 6 credit hours
of COMP 490  Independent Project  and/or  COMP 499  Internship .  You
can go  here  (p. 1576 ) for a list of COMP 400-level course descriptions.
Track Requirements
Data Management (DM) Track
Code Title Hours
COMP 405 Database Administration 3COMP 406Data Mining3
COMP 425 Rapid Applications Development 3COMP 453Database Programming3
COMP 488 Computer Science Topics 1-4
Technology Management (TM) Track
Code Title Hours
COMP 403 Operations Management 3COMP 404Organizational Development3
COMP 420 Software Systems Analysis 3COMP 477IT Project Management3
IT Security (IS) Track
Code Title Hours
COMP 401 Computer Security 3COMP 440Computer Forensics Investigations3
COMP 447 Intrusion Detection and Computer Forensics 3COMP 448Network Security3
COMP 449 Wireless Networking and Security 3COMP 452Introduction to Computer Vulnerabilities3
Enterprise Networking (EN) Track
Code Title Hours
COMP 443 Computer Networks 3COMP 448Network Security3
COMP 449 Wireless Networking and Security 3COMP 451Enterprise Networking3
Additional Requirements fo the BA/MS Program
Students in the BA/MS program are permitted to take up to 9 credit
hours of 400-level courses that would apply toward their MS program
requirements while completing their undergraduate degree.  If you have
general elective hours to  satisfy for  your undergraduate degree, your 400-
level courses can be courses taken in addition to your undergraduate
major courses. Additionally, there are three 400-level courses that can be
applied both toward your BA and MS Information Technology program
requirements:
•COMP 477 IT Project Management
•COMP 422 Software Development for Wireless and Mobile Devices
•COMP 417 Social and Ethical Issues in Computing  
The following are required to complete the BA/MS dual degree program:

--- Page 1222 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1253
•Successful completion of the BA Information Technology within the
School of Continuing & Professional Studies. 
•30 credit hours of 400-level graduate courses, including those
counted while an undergraduate, completed with a GPA of 3.0 or
higher.
Please note o nly 400-level courses will apply toward graduate
requirements. Additionally, a student with credit for a 300-level COMP
course that has an equivalent 400-level COMP course may not take the
400-level course for separate credit. Example: COMP 317 and COMP 417
are equivalent courses and credit can only be earned once.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The School of Continuing and Professional Studies provides a high-touch
advising model in order to incorporate the professional and educational
outcomes of the student as well as any transfer credit accepted.  In
order to provide students with maximum flexibility in their education and
because everyone’s academic background will vary, advisors will work
directly with students to determine an appropriate sequence of courses
starting at admission into their respective program based on their needs
and expected time to completion.
Students in the BA/MS program are permitted to take up to 9 credit
hours of 400-level courses that would apply toward their MS program
requirements while completing their undergraduate degree.  There are
three 400-level courses that can be applied both toward your BA and
MS Information Technology program requirements and these are listed
below.
If you have general elective hours to  satisfy for  your undergraduate
degree, your 400-level courses can be courses taken in addition to your
undergraduate major courses and  not have  overlap with your major
requirements. 
•COMP 477 IT Project Management   (satisﬁes  CPST 349  IT major
requirement) 
•COMP 422 Software Development for Wireless and Mobile Devices
 (satisﬁes  CPST 342  IT major requirement) 
•COMP 417 Social and Ethical Issues in Computing
 (satisﬁes  COMP 317  IT major  requirement )
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may chooseto have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level

--- Page 1223 ---
1254  Information Technology (BS/MS)
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
Students  will be able to:
•Demonstrate a high level of proﬁciency in making informed and
strategic decisions, applying quantitative analysis, and implementing
project management strategies to effectively impact organizational
goals. [BA Information Technology]
•Demonstrate knowledge of legal and ethical considerations in
information technology and apply technical and ethical solutions. [BA
Information Technology]
•Apply foundational knowledge of IT systems, computer networking,
and security, including cloud computing concepts, TCP/IP model,
packet-based networking, wireless networking, and cybersecurity
principles. [BA Information Technology]
•Organize data in ways to emphasize relationships to elicit information
from a database that allows data to be mined, visualized and
graphically display via web interfaces. [BA Information Technology]
•Develop programs using fundamental programming constructs, data
structures, and algorithms, while demonstrating the ability to choose
appropriate solutions and justify their selections. [BA Information
Technology]
•Apply object-oriented principles (abstraction, delegation, inheritance,
and polymorphism) and design patterns, and demonstrate proﬁciency
in programming, testing, and debugging using a mainstream object-
oriented language. [BA Information Technology]
•Students in the MS Information Technology program will gain
familiarity with the broad outlines of computer technology and will
gain specialization in one of the track areas (Data Management,
Technology Management, IT Security and Enterprise Networking).
Information Technology (BS/MS)
The BS/MS programs in Information Technology, Software Engineering,
and Computer Science are ﬁve-year programs that give academically
successful Loyola undergraduates the opportunity to pursue the MS
degree in Information Technology, Software Engineering, or Computer

--- Page 1224 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1255
Science while completing their BS degree. The applicant can be
pursuing any of the BS degrees offered by the Department of Computer
Science, including the joint majors with Mathematics or Physics or the
interdisciplinary Bioinformatics.
These programs reduce the total number of courses needed and the total
time needed for the combined degrees. Speciﬁcally, students in the BS/
MS program are allowed to “double count” 9 credits (generally three 3-
credit courses) of their Loyola COMP courses towards both their BS and
MS degrees. Each double-counted course must be a 400-level course
taken in the student’s senior year in place of a corresponding 300-level
course. This leaves a total of 21 credits (seven courses) to be taken after
completion of the Bachelors' degree.
Students may not automatically enroll in the BS/MS program
during Freshman admission. They must speciﬁcally apply to the
Graduate School, generally in their Junior year by using  The Graduate
Application Form  (https://gpem.luc.edu/apply/ ). See  Application
Requirements  (https://academics.cs.luc.edu/undergraduate/
bsmsprograms.html#application-requirements ) and  Application
Information  (https://academics.cs.luc.edu/undergraduate/
bsmsprograms.html#application-information ) for more details.
Related Programs
Combined
•Computer Science (BS/MS)  (p. 1068 )
•Software Engineering (BS/MS)  (p. 1368 )
CURRICULUM
The stand-alone MS programs each require 30 credits of graduate
courses. This generally takes one and a half years to complete. BS/MS
students must also take 30 credits of courses at the 400 level or greater.
The main advantages come from the fact that some of the MS courses
may be double-counted, applying to the BS also, and there can be a shift
in some of the required MS courses based on what students took in the
BS portion. In particular students in the BS/MS program are allowed to
“double count” 9 credits (generally three 3-credit courses) of their Loyola
COMP courses for both their BS and MS degrees. Each must be a 400
level course taken in the student’s senior year  in place  of a 300 level major
course. Also, a student wishing to take 123 or more credits while an
undergraduate, can have 3 of the extra credits be for a fourth 400 level
COMP course, and count that toward the MS if the extra course is needed
for no undergraduate requirement, from the university, college, core, major
or minor. Hence a BS/MS student with 120 credits and 9 400-level COMP
credits counted for the BS is required to take only 21 credits (instead of
30 credits) of additional 400-level courses. If a student takes a further 3-
credit 400 level COMP course beyond the 120 credits needed for the BS,
then only 18 further credits are needed. In either case, students can ﬁnish
the program in ﬁve years.
Code Title Hours
Major RequirementsSelect one of the following:3
STAT 103 Fundamentals of StatisticsSTAT 203Introduction to Probability & StatisticsISSCM 241 Business StatisticsPSYC 304StatisticsCOMP 141 Introduction to Computing Tools and Techniques 3COMP 163Discrete Structures3or MATH 201Introduction to Discrete Mathematics & Number
Theory
COMP 170 Introduction to Object-Oriented Programming 3COMP 251Introduction to Database Systems3
COMP 264 Introduction to Computer Systems 3
or COMP 271 Data Structures ICOMP 301Introduction to Computer Security3
COMP 317 Social, Legal, and Ethical Issues in Computing 3COMP 377IT Project Management3or ISSCM 349Project Management
Select six credit hours from the following: 6COMP 305Database AdministrationCOMP 306 Data MiningCOMP 343Computer NetworksCOMP 353 Database ProgrammingPracticum CapstoneSelect six credits taken from one or more of the following:  16COMP 312Open Source Software PracticumCOMP 390 Broadening Participation in STEM (Computing,
Math & Science)COMP 391Internship in Computer ScienceCOMP 398 Independent StudyElectivesSelect ten credit hours from the following including at most one of
the ﬁrst four courses:  210COMP 125Visual Information Processingor COMP 150Introduction to Computing
COMP 250 Introduction to Scientiﬁc and Technical
Communication
or ENGL 210 Business WritingCOMP 264Introduction to Computer Systems 3or COMP 271Data Structures I
MGMT 318 Organizational Development and ChangeMGMT 320Leading and Managing TeamsMGMT 335 Micro-Enterprise ConsultingMGMT 360Values-Based LeadershipENTR 201 Introduction to EntrepreneurshipENTR 311Social EntrepreneurshipENTR 313 Entrepreneurship - Global Opportunity ScanENTR 345Entrepreneurial MarketingENTR 390 Entrepreneurship Strategies - CapstoneISSCM 393Requirements Analysis and Communication 3COMP 300 level electives  4MS RequirementsCOMP 417 Social and Ethical Issues in Computing 53Select Three (3) courses in Track/Major Requirements.  (p. 1256 ) 69Six (6) COMP Graduate-Level Electives  718Total Hours70
1See the details of registering in the links for each course. Students are
encouraged to complete these credits during junior and senior years to
draw on prior experience. Note:

--- Page 1225 ---
1256  Information Technology (BS/MS)
•COMP 312  is a 3-credit course
•COMP 390  is limited to 3 total credits
•COMP 391  and COMP 398  will usually be limited to 6 total credits
each, but permission may sometimes be granted for more.
2Note that some COMP 300-level electives have a prereq of  COMP 271
Data Structures I  or higher, and MGMT and ENTR courses also have
prereqs.
3You must take  COMP 264  or COMP 271  as part of the Major
requirements. The second one can be used as an elective if taken.
4MGMT 201 Managing People and Organizations  plus ACCT 201
Introductory Accounting I  may count in place of 3 credits of major
electives, only if ISSCM 349 Project Management  is completed to also
count toward this major.
5This course can be substituted with another graduate course at the
discretion of Graduate Program Director if students had the equivalent
in their undergraduate program.
6Courses can be substituted at the discretion of the Graduate Program
Director. Substitutions will usually be limited to special-topics courses
(COMP 488 Computer Science Topics ) which have learning outcomes
closely related to other courses in the track in question.
7Electives can be any  COMP 400 level class
(p. 1576 ), except the preparation courses
(COMP 400A , COMP 400B , COMP 400C , COMP 400D , COMP 400E ).
Students may take up to a maximum of 6 credit hours
of COMP 490  Independent Project  and/or  COMP 499  Internship .  You
can go  here  (p. 1576 ) for a list of COMP 400-level course descriptions.
Track Requirements
Data Management (DM) Track
Code Title Hours
COMP 405 Database Administration 3COMP 406Data Mining3
COMP 425 Rapid Applications Development 3COMP 453Database Programming3
COMP 488 Computer Science Topics 1-4
Technology Management (TM) Track
Code Title Hours
COMP 403 Operations Management 3COMP 404Organizational Development3
COMP 420 Software Systems Analysis 3COMP 477IT Project Management3
IT Security (IS) Track
Code Title Hours
COMP 401 Computer Security 3COMP 440Computer Forensics Investigations3
COMP 447 Intrusion Detection and Computer Forensics 3COMP 448Network Security3
COMP 449 Wireless Networking and Security 3COMP 452Introduction to Computer Vulnerabilities3
Enterprise Networking (EN) Track
Code Title Hours
COMP 443 Computer Networks 3COMP 448Network Security3COMP 449 Wireless Networking and Security 3COMP 451Enterprise Networking3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
COMP 150 Introduction to Computing 13COMP 141Introduction to Computing Tools and
Techniques3
STAT 103 Fundamentals of Statistics 23CORE: Philosophical Knowledge Tier 13
CORE: College Writing Seminar 3UNIV 101First Year Seminar1 Hours16
SpringCOMP 170Introduction to Object-Oriented
Programming 33
COMP 163 Discrete Structures 3CORE: Historical Knowledge Tier 13
CORE: Ethics 3CORE: Scientiﬁc Knowledge Tier 13 Hours15
Year 2
FallCOMP 271 
or COMP 264Data Structures I 
or Introduction to Computer Systems3
COMP 301 Introduction to Computer Security 3COMP 251Introduction to Database Systems3
CORE: Theology and Religious Studies Tier 1 3CAS Language Requirement 101 level  43 Hours15
SpringCOMP 377IT Project Management 53
COMP 317 Social, Legal, and Ethical Issues in
Computing3ITEC-BS Restricted Elective3
CORE: Societal & Cultural Knowledge Tier 1 3CAS Language Requirement 102 level3 Hours15
Year 3
FallITEC-BS Restricted Elective3
COMP Free Elective 1CORE: Literary Knowledge & Experience Tier 13
CORE: Artistic Knowledge & Experience 3CAS Elective3

--- Page 1226 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1257CAS Elective3 Hours16
Spring
COMP Free Elective 3CORE: Theology and Religious Studies Tier 23
CORE: Scientiﬁc Knowledge Tier 2 3CORE: Historical Knowledge Tier 23CAS Elective3 Hours15
Year 4
Fall
COMP Practicum 3CORE: Literary Knowledge & Experience Tier 23
CORE: Societal & Cultural Knowledge Tier 2 3CORE: Philosophical Knowledge Tier 23
CAS Elective 3COMP 400-Level Course  Hours15
SpringCOMP Practicum3
COMP 400-Level Course 3COMP 400-Level Course3
CAS Elective 3CAS Elective3 Hours15
Year 5Complete MS Requirements in consultation with the Graduate
Program Director.21 Hours21 Total Hours143
Additional Rules of the BS/MS Program
1.All students need to take  COMP 271 Data Structures I  as part of their
undergraduate major.
2.Students pursuing an MS in Software Engineering or Computer
Science must take  COMP 313 Object-Oriented Design  by their senior
year.
3.Students may take at most 6 credits total of internship at the
undergraduate and graduate level,  COMP 391 Internship in Computer
Science  plus  COMP 499 Internship .
4.A student with credit for a 300 level COMP course that was taught
in a combined class with a 400 level course may not take the 400
level course later for separate credit without permission from the
Graduate Program Director. In particular for students with credit
for COMP 317 Social, Legal, and Ethical Issues in Computing ,
the MS requirement for  COMP 417 Social and Ethical Issues in
Computing  is waived, to be replaced by 3 MS elective credits.
Similarly, in programs requiring  COMP 413 Intermediate Object-
Oriented Development , COMP 313 Object-Oriented Design  will satisfy
the requirement, but still, the course will need to be replaced by 3 MS
elective credits.
5.In MS programs with restricted electives lists with two or more
courses required from a larger explicit list, one of the courses may
be waived if the corresponding 300 level undergraduate course wassuccessfully completed at Loyola. The course must still be replaced
by a 3-credit MS program elective.
6.All further individual MS program requirements must be met with the
inclusion of the allowed 400 level courses taken as an undergraduate.
Requirements for Completion of the BS/MS Program
After admission to the BS/MS program, a student may request to be
registered in their senior year for up to four 400 level COMP courses, with
three of them replacing undergraduate major courses, and a fourth  if the
student will graduate with at least 123 credits and not need the fourth
course as a part of  any undergraduate requirement. Students generally
take the remainder of their 30 credits of 400-level MS classes during
their ﬁfth year. This schedule can be modiﬁed for students with AP or
transfer credit who desire to ﬁnish the combined program in less than
ﬁve years. Students in the program are expected to consult regularly
with the Graduate Program Director to ensure that they are on track for
completion of both the BS and MS degrees. The following are required to
complete a BS/MS degree program:
•Successful completion of one of the BS degrees in the Department
of Computer Science or Bioinformatics or a joint major with
Mathematics or Physics
•The 400-level graduate courses, excluding those counted while an
undergraduate, completed with a GPA of 3.0 or higher
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate

--- Page 1227 ---
1258  Information Technology (BS/MS)
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while

--- Page 1228 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1259
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•Students will gain familiarity with the broad outlines of computer
technology, and will gain specialization in one of the track areas (Data
Management, Technology Management, IT Security and Enterprise
Networking).
Information Technology/Computer
Science (BA/MS)
The Information Technology (BA)/Computer Science (MS) program is an
accelerated program giving students the opportunity to pursue  admission
to and begin classes for the M.S. while an undergraduate student.  This
program reduces the total number of courses needed and the total time
needed for the combined degrees. 
Related Programs
Major
•Information Technology (BA)  (p. 861)
Combined
•Computer Science (BS/MS)  (p. 1068 )
•Information Technology (BS/MS)  (p. 1254 )
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
Information Technology Major CurriculumCOMP 170Introduction to Object-Oriented Programming3
COMP 251 Introduction to Database Systems 3COMP 271Data Structures I3
COMP 317 Social, Legal, and Ethical Issues in Computing 3CPST 250Foundations of Organizations3
CPST 291 Dynamic Programming Languages 3CPST 310Accounting Principles and Application3
CPST 325 Data Processing, Analysis, and Visualization 3CPST 342Introduction to Web Application Development3
CPST 343 Software Development for Mobile Devices 3CPST 345Introduction to IT : Networking, Cloud & Security3
CPST 349 Project Management 3STAT 103Fundamentals of Statistics3
SCPS CoursesCPST 200Introduction to Degree Completion3
CPST 201 Civic Identity and Development 3CPST 397Capstone3
Core RequirementsThe number of hours remaining toward Core requirements can vary
due to transfer credit.Mission Speciﬁc RequirementsMission speciﬁc requirements can vary from 0 to 15 credit hours
based on your prior credit.General Elective RequirementsStudents may have some general elective coursework to complete
if their transfer credit and remaining required hours (Core, mission
speciﬁc, major, etc.) do not total 120.MS Information Technology Curriculum 30COMP 417Social and Ethical Issues in Computing3
Select Three (3) courses in Track/Major Requirements.  (p. 1259 ) 19Six (6) COMP Graduate Level Electives  218Total Hours108
1Courses can be substituted at the discretion of the Graduate Program Director.
Substitutions will usually be limited to special-topics courses ( COMP 488
Computer Science Topics ) which have learning outcomes closely related
to other courses in the track in question.
2Electives can be any  COMP 400 level class
(p. 1576 ), except the preparation courses
(COMP 400A , COMP 400B , COMP 400C , COMP 400D , COMP 400E ).
Students may take up to a maximum of 6 credit hours
of COMP 490  Independent Project  and/or  COMP 499  Internship .  You
can go  here  (p. 1576 ) for a list of COMP 400-level course descriptions.
Track Requirements
Data Management (DM) Track
Code Title Hours
COMP 405 Database Administration 3COMP 406Data Mining3
COMP 425 Rapid Applications Development 3COMP 453Database Programming3
COMP 488 Computer Science Topics 1-4
Technology Management (TM) Track
Code Title Hours
COMP 403 Operations Management 3COMP 404Organizational Development3
COMP 420 Software Systems Analysis 3COMP 477IT Project Management3
IT Security (IS) Track
Code Title Hours
COMP 401 Computer Security 3COMP 440Computer Forensics Investigations3
COMP 447 Intrusion Detection and Computer Forensics 3COMP 448Network Security3
COMP 449 Wireless Networking and Security 3COMP 452Introduction to Computer Vulnerabilities3
Enterprise Networking (EN) Track
Code Title Hours
COMP 443 Computer Networks 3COMP 448Network Security3
COMP 449 Wireless Networking and Security 3COMP 451Enterprise Networking3
Additional Requirements fo the BA/MS Program
Students in the BA/MS program are permitted to take up to 9 credit
hours of 400-level courses that would apply toward their MS program
requirements while completing their undergraduate degree.  If you have

--- Page 1229 ---
1260  Information Technology/Computer Science (BA/MS)
general elective hours to  satisfy for  your undergraduate degree, your 400-
level courses can be courses taken in addition to your undergraduate
major courses. Additionally, there are three 400-level courses that can be
applied both toward your BA and MS Information Technology program
requirements:
•COMP 477 IT Project Management
•COMP 422 Software Development for Wireless and Mobile Devices
•COMP 417 Social and Ethical Issues in Computing  
The following are required to complete the BA/MS dual degree program:
•Successful completion of the BA Information Technology within the
School of Continuing & Professional Studies. 
•30 credit hours of 400-level graduate courses, including those
counted while an undergraduate, completed with a GPA of 3.0 or
higher.
Please note o nly 400-level courses will apply toward graduate
requirements. Additionally, a student with credit for a 300-level COMP
course that has an equivalent 400-level COMP course may not take the
400-level course for separate credit. Example: COMP 317 and COMP 417
are equivalent courses and credit can only be earned once.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The School of Continuing and Professional Studies provides a high-touch
advising model in order to incorporate the professional and educational
outcomes of the student as well as any transfer credit accepted.  In
order to provide students with maximum flexibility in their education and
because everyone’s academic background will vary, advisors will work
directly with students to determine an appropriate sequence of courses
starting at admission into their respective program based on their needs
and expected time to completion.
Students in the BA/MS program are permitted to take up to 9 credit
hours of 400-level courses that would apply toward their MS program
requirements while completing their undergraduate degree.  There are
three 400-level courses that can be applied both toward your BA and
MS Information Technology program requirements and these are listed
below.
If you have general elective hours to  satisfy for  your undergraduate
degree, your 400-level courses can be courses taken in addition to your
undergraduate major courses and  not have  overlap with your major
requirements. 
•COMP 477 IT Project Management   (satisﬁes  CPST 349  IT major
requirement) 
•COMP 422 Software Development for Wireless and Mobile Devices
 (satisﬁes  CPST 342  IT major requirement) 
•COMP 417 Social and Ethical Issues in Computing
 (satisﬁes  COMP 317  IT major  requirement )
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  •Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.

--- Page 1230 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1261
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
Students  will be able to:
•Demonstrate a high level of proﬁciency in making informed and
strategic decisions, applying quantitative analysis, and implementing
project management strategies to effectively impact organizational
goals. [BA Information Technology]
•Demonstrate knowledge of legal and ethical considerations in
information technology and apply technical and ethical solutions. [BA
Information Technology]
•Apply foundational knowledge of IT systems, computer networking,
and security, including cloud computing concepts, TCP/IP model,
packet-based networking, wireless networking, and cybersecurity
principles. [BA Information Technology]
•Organize data in ways to emphasize relationships to elicit information
from a database that allows data to be mined, visualized and
graphically display via web interfaces. [BA Information Technology]
•Develop programs using fundamental programming constructs, data
structures, and algorithms, while demonstrating the ability to choose
appropriate solutions and justify their selections. [BA Information
Technology]
•Apply object-oriented principles (abstraction, delegation, inheritance,
and polymorphism) and design patterns, and demonstrate proﬁciency
in programming, testing, and debugging using a mainstream object-
oriented language. [BA Information Technology]

--- Page 1231 ---
1262  Information Technology/Information Technology Leadership and Strategy (BA/MPS)
•Students in the MS Computer Science program will gain familiarity
with the broad outlines of computer technology and will gain
specialization in one of the track areas (Data Management,
Technology Management, IT Security and Enterprise Networking).
Information Technology/Information
Technology Leadership and Strategy
(BA/MPS)
The accelerated BA Information Technology (BA IT)/MPS IT Leadership
and Strategy program is an online program that gives academically
successful Loyola SCPS BA IT majors the opportunity to pursue the MPS
degree in IT Leadership and Strategy while completing their BA degree.
This program reduces the total number of courses needed and the total
time needed for the combined degrees. Current accelerated bachelors/
master’s degree programs at LUC allow qualiﬁed students to take up to
four graduate-level courses as undergraduates. This program will allow
students in the BA IT program to take four of the courses from the MPS
IT Leadership and Strategy in their senior year. These courses will be
taken as both major and elective course and will count toward the degree
requirements for both programs.
Related Programs
Major
•Information Technology (BA)  (p. 861)
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
BA RequirementsCPST 250Foundations of Organizations3
CPST 310 Accounting Principles and Application 3CPST 349Project Management 23
STAT 103 Fundamentals of Statistics 3COMP 170Introduction to Object-Oriented Programming3
COMP 251 Introduction to Database Systems 3COMP 271Data Structures I3
CPST 291 Dynamic Programming Languages 3CPST 325Data Processing, Analysis, and Visualization3
CPST 342 Introduction to Web Application Development 3CPST 343Software Development for Mobile Devices3
COMP 317 Social, Legal, and Ethical Issues in Computing 23CPST 345Introduction to IT : Networking, Cloud & Security 23
SCPS CoursesCPST 200Introduction to Degree Completion3
CPST 201 Civic Identity and Development 3CPST 397Capstone3
Core RequirementsThe number of hours remaining toward Core requirements can very
due to transfer credit.  1Mission Speciﬁc RequirementsMission speciﬁc requirements can vary from 0 to 15 credit hours
based on your prior credit.General Elective RequirementsStudents may have some general elective coursework to complete
if their transfer credit and remaining required hours (Core, mission
speciﬁc, major, etc.) do not total 120.MPS RequirementsCOMP 417Social and Ethical Issues in Computing 23
COMP 477 IT Project Management 23ITLS 445Introduction to IT : Networking, Cloud & Security 23
ITLS 447 Cybersecurity Governance, Planning, and Incident
Response3ITLS 449Advanced Topics: Emerging Technologies3
ITLS 451 Human-Centered Management 3ITLS 453Developing Strategic Plans3Select three (3) ITLS Electives courses - 400-level or above  (p. 1262 )
39Total Hours69
1Core Requirements -  Learn More  (p. 1405 )
2Up to 12 credit hours can be shared between the undergraduate and
graduate degree. Three of the MPS degree courses will count toward
the BA IT major requirements: COMP 477 IT Project Management  (in
lieu of CPST 349 ), COMP 417 Social and Ethical Issues in Computing
(in lieu of COMP 317 ), and ITLS 445 Introduction to IT : Networking,
Cloud & Security  (in lieu of CPST 345 ). These courses will be taken
during the students’ senior year as an undergraduate. One other
graduate course from the MPS degree will be taken as an elective
during the student’s senior year.
3Electives will be selected from existing graduate courses (400 level or higher)
at Loyola University Chicago. They will typically be chosen from SCPS
(and may include courses in all graduate programs housed in SCPS) and the
Computer Science Department.  Electives will be determined in conjunction
with the program director.
Electives
Code Title Hours
COMP 403 Operations Management 3COMP 420Software Systems Analysis3
COMP 422 Software Development for Wireless and Mobile
Devices3COMP 424Client-Side Web Design3
COMP 441 Human-Computer Interaction 3COMP 443Computer Networks3
COMP 447 Intrusion Detection and Computer Forensics 3COMP 488Computer Science Topics1-4
INDN 420 Instructional Design Theories and Models 3INDN 421Design & Development of Instructional Materials3
INDN 430 Performance Improvement in Organizations 3INDN 431Fundamentals of Learning Analytics3
INDN 440 Applications of Human Centered Design Principles 3MPP 400Policy Design and Analysis3
MPP 401 Analytical Tools in Public Policy 3MPP 403Public Budget and Finance3
MPP 404 Public Policy Process 3MPP 405Statistical Methods & Analysis for Public Policy I3
MPP 406 Statistical Methods & Analysis Public Policy II 3MPP 410Special Topics in Public Policy3

--- Page 1232 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1263
MPP 413 Intergovernmental Relations 3PSLD 400Introduction to Public Service3
PSLD 402 Foundations of Global Strategic Communication 3PSLD 403Program Management and Development3
PSLD 404 Data, Visualization and Evaluation 3PSLD 405Design Thinking in Mitigating Complex Social
Problems3
PSLD 430 Understanding and Mitigating Poverty 3PSLD 431Foundations of Social and Sustainable
Development3
PSLD 432 Gender Diversity & Sustainable Social
Development3PSLD 433Social Analysis Inequality Poverty and
Development3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The School of Continuing and Professional Studies provides a high-touch
advising model in order to incorporate the professional and educational
outcomes of the student as well as any transfer credit accepted.  In
order to provide students with maximum flexibility in their education and
because everyone’s academic background will vary, advisors will work
directly with students to determine an appropriate sequence of courses
starting at admission into their respective program based on their needs
and expected time to completion.
Three of the MPS courses will be taken during the students'
senior year as an undergraduate:  COMP 477  IT Project
Management , COMP 417  Social and Ethical Issues in Computing ,
and  ITLS 445  Introduction to IT : Networking, Cloud & Security .
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3

--- Page 1233 ---
1264  Information Technology/Instructional Design (BA/MPS)
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering theoption of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•Demonstrate a high level of proﬁciency in making informed and
strategic decisions, applying quantitative analysis, and implementing
project management strategies to effectively impact organizational
goals. [Information Technology]
•Demonstrate knowledge of legal and ethical considerations in
information technology and apply technical and ethical solutions.
[Information Technology]
•Apply foundational knowledge of IT systems, computer networking,
and security, including cloud computing concepts, TCP/IP model,
packet-based networking, wireless networking, and cybersecurity
principles. [Information Technology]
•Organize data in ways to emphasize relationships to elicit information
from a database that allows data to be mined, visualized and
graphically display via web interfaces. [Information Technology]
•Develop programs using fundamental programming constructs,
data structures, and algorithms, while demonstrating the ability to
choose appropriate solutions and justify their selections. [Information
Technology]
•Apply object-oriented principles (abstraction, delegation, inheritance,
and polymorphism) and design patterns, and demonstrate proﬁciency
in programming, testing, and debugging using a mainstream object-
oriented language. [Information Technology]
•Evaluate key policies, processes, and ethical decision making
involved in the oversight of information technology within an
organization in real world case studies. [Information Technology
Leadership and Strategy]
•Apply project management principles to ensure successful
implementation of core IT functions, such as network management,
system administration, infrastructure integration, and mobile
computing in coursework. [Information Technology Leadership and
Strategy]
•Create business plans that incorporate IT strategies, employing
creativity, innovation, and strategic thinking to identify opportunities,
address challenges, build strong relationships, and drive
organizational success. [Information Technology Leadership and
Strategy]
•Analyze key performance indicators (KPIs) to measure the impact
of IT management on organizational performance in written
assignments and case studies. [Information Technology Leadership
and Strategy]
Information Technology/Instructional
Design (BA/MPS)
The BA Information Technology (BA IT)/MPS Instructional Design
program is an accelerated, online program that gives academically
successful Loyola SCPS BA IT majors the opportunity to pursue the
MPS degree in Instructional Design while completing their BA degree.

--- Page 1234 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1265
This program reduces the total number of courses needed and the total
time needed for the combined degrees. Current accelerated bachelors/
master’s degree programs at LUC allow qualiﬁed students to take up to
four graduate-level courses as undergraduates. This program will allow
students in the BA IT program to take four of the courses from the MPS
Instructional Design in their senior year. These courses will be taken as
elective course and will count toward the degree requirements for both
programs.
Related Programs
Major
•Information Technology (BA)  (p. 861)
Curriculum
Up to 12 credit hours can be shared between the undergraduate and
graduate degree. These credits fulﬁll general electives for the 120 credits
needed for the bachelor’s degree.
Code Title Hours
BA RequirementsCPST 250Foundations of Organizations3
CPST 310 Accounting Principles and Application 3CPST 349Project Management3
STAT 103 Fundamentals of Statistics 3COMP 170Introduction to Object-Oriented Programming3
COMP 251 Introduction to Database Systems 3COMP 271Data Structures I3
COMP 317 Social, Legal, and Ethical Issues in Computing 3CPST 291Dynamic Programming Languages3
CPST 325 Data Processing, Analysis, and Visualization 3CPST 342Introduction to Web Application Development3
CPST 343 Software Development for Mobile Devices 3CPST 345Introduction to IT : Networking, Cloud & Security3
SCPS CoursesCPST 200Introduction to Degree Completion3
CPST 201 Civic Identity and Development 3CPST 397Capstone3
Core RequirementsThe number of hours remaining toward Core requirements can vary
due to transfer credit.  1Mission Speciﬁc RequirementsMission speciﬁc requirements can vary from 0 to 15 credit hours
based on your prior credit.General Elective RequirementsStudents may have some general elective coursework to complete
if their transfer credit and remaining required hours (Core, mission
speciﬁc, major, etc.) do not total 120.MPS RequirementsCIEP 470Principles of Instructional Design3
INDN 420 Instructional Design Theories and Models 3INDN 421Design & Development of Instructional Materials3
INDN 430 Performance Improvement in Organizations 3INDN 431Fundamentals of Learning Analytics3
INDN 440 Applications of Human Centered Design Principles 3CIEP 415Models of Instruction3
CIEP 425 Theory and Practice in Assessment 3CIEP 488Participatory Action Research (PAR) in Schools
and Communities3INDN 490Instructional Design Capstone3Total Hours78
1Core Requirements - Learn More  (p. 1405 )
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The School of Continuing and Professional Studies provides a high-touch
advising model in order to incorporate the professional and educational
outcomes of the student as well as any transfer credit accepted.  In
order to provide students with maximum flexibility in their education and
because everyone’s academic background will vary, advisors will work
directly with students to determine an appropriate sequence of courses
starting at admission into their respective program based on their needs
and expected time to completion.
Students must start with the MPS ID pre-requisite
course  CIEP 470  Principles of Instructional Design , and end
with  INDN 490  Instructional Design Capstone  (as the last course in the
MPS degree, not to be taken as an undergraduate).
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2

--- Page 1235 ---
1266  Information Technology/Instructional Design (BA/MPS)
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to theAccelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional

--- Page 1236 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1267
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•Demonstrate a high level of proﬁciency in making informed and
strategic decisions, applying quantitative analysis, and implementing
project management strategies to effectively impact organizational
goals. [Information Technology]
•Demonstrate knowledge of legal and ethical considerations in
information technology and apply technical and ethical solutions.
[Information Technology]
•Apply foundational knowledge of IT systems, computer networking,
and security, including cloud computing concepts, TCP/IP model,
packet-based networking, wireless networking, and cybersecurity
principles. [Information Technology]
•Organize data in ways to emphasize relationships to elicit information
from a database that allows data to be mined, visualized and
graphically display via web interfaces. [Information Technology]
•Develop programs using fundamental programming constructs,
data structures, and algorithms, while demonstrating the ability to
choose appropriate solutions and justify their selections. [Information
Technology]
•Apply object-oriented principles (abstraction, delegation, inheritance,
and polymorphism) and design patterns, and demonstrate proﬁciency
in programming, testing, and debugging using a mainstream object-
oriented language. [Information Technology]
•Utilize instructional design processes and adapt appropriate
theoretical approaches to a variety of professional settings (K-12
schools, corporate organizations, higher education institutions,
etc). while designing and creating effective and innovative learning
experiences. [Instructional Design]
•Employ a variety of technologies and multimedia authoring tools to
produce instructional materials. [Instructional Design]
•Apply culturally responsive and ethical practices while establishing
collaborative relationships with diverse stakeholders (e.g.,
administrators, faculty, students, technologists, project managers,
public) and building a network of industry colleagues. [Instructional
Design]
•Conduct research and predictive data set analysis to inform practice
and stay abreast of emerging trends in the ﬁeld of instructional
design to make recommendations about instructional practices and
performance gaps in an organization. [Instructional Design]
Management/Information Technology
Leadership and Strategy (BA/MPS)
The BA-Management/ MPS IT Leadership and Strategy program is an
accelerated, online program that gives academically successful Loyola
SCPS BA-Management majors the opportunity to pursue the MPS degree
in IT Leadership and Strategy while completing their BA degree. This
program reduces the total number of courses needed and the total
time needed for the combined degrees. Current accelerated bachelors/
master’s degree programs at LUC allow qualiﬁed students to take up to
four graduate-level courses as undergraduates. This program will allow
students in the BA- Management program to take four of the courses
from the MPS IT Leadership and Strategy in their senior year. Thesecourses will be taken as both major and elective course and will count
toward the degree requirements for both programs.
Related Programs
Major
•Management (BA)  (p. 863)
Curriculum
Up to 12 credit hours can be shared between the undergraduate and
graduate degree. During the students’ senior year, the graduate-level
Project Management course COMP 477 IT Project Management  will
count toward the major requirements, in lieu of the undergraduate course
CPST 349 Project Management . The other graduate courses will be taken
as electives during the students’ senior year.
Code Title Hours
BA RequirementsCPST 250Foundations of Organizations3
CPST 310 Accounting Principles and Application 13CPST 340Marketing Concepts and Strategies 13
CPST 350 Human Resources Principles & Practices 3CPST 349Project Management 23
CPST 243 Microeconomics 13CPST 245Macroeconomics 13
STAT 103 Fundamentals of Statistics 13CPST 371Organizational Finance3
CPST 335 Law and Regulations for Organizational Leaders 3COMM 175Introduction to Communication3
CPST 377 Data in Management Decision-Making 3Select one of the following:3
CPST 322 Strategic Communication Tools for Applied PsychCOMM 231Conflict Management and CommunicationCOMM 277 Organizational CommunicationSCPS CoursesCPST 200 Introduction to Degree Completion 3CPST 201Civic Identity and Development3
CPST 397 Capstone 3Core RequirementsThe number of hours remaining toward Core requirements can vary
due to transfer credit.  3Mission Speciﬁc RequirementsMission speciﬁc requirements can vary from 0 to 15 credit hours
based on your prior credit.General Elective RequirementsStudents may have some general elective coursework to complete
if their transfer credit and remaining required hours (Core, mission
speciﬁc, major, etc.) do not total 120.MPS RequirementsCOMP 417 Social and Ethical Issues in Computing 3COMP 477IT Project Management 23
ITLS 445 Introduction to IT : Networking, Cloud & Security 3ITLS 447Cybersecurity Governance, Planning, and Incident
Response3
ITLS 449 Advanced Topics: Emerging Technologies 3

--- Page 1237 ---
1268  Management/Information Technology Leadership and Strategy (BA/MPS)ITLS 451Human-Centered Management3
ITLS 453 Developing Strategic Plans 3Select three (3) ITLS Electives courses - 400-level or above  (p. 1268 )
49Total Hours78
1These courses are eligible for waiver to Loyola’s Quinlan School of Business
M.B.A. program. Final approval of waivers are determined by a Quinlan
academic advisor upon admission to the graduate program.
2During the students’ senior year, the graduate-level Project
Management course  COMP 477 IT Project Management  will
count toward the major requirements, in lieu of the undergraduate
course  CPST 349 Project Management .
3Core Requirements -  Learn More  (p. 1405 )
4Electives will be selected from existing graduate courses (400 level
or higher) at Loyola University Chicago. They will typically be chosen
from SCPS (and may include courses in all graduate programs housed
in SCPS) and the Computer Science Department.  Electives will be
determined in conjunction with the program director.
Electives
Code Title Hours
COMP 403 Operations Management 3COMP 420Software Systems Analysis3
COMP 422 Software Development for Wireless and Mobile
Devices3COMP 424Client-Side Web Design3
COMP 441 Human-Computer Interaction 3COMP 443Computer Networks3
COMP 447 Intrusion Detection and Computer Forensics 3COMP 448Network Security3
COMP 488 Computer Science Topics 1-4INDN 420Instructional Design Theories and Models3
INDN 421 Design & Development of Instructional Materials 3INDN 430Performance Improvement in Organizations3
INDN 431 Fundamentals of Learning Analytics 3INDN 440Applications of Human Centered Design Principles3
MPP 400 Policy Design and Analysis 3MPP 401Analytical Tools in Public Policy3
MPP 403 Public Budget and Finance 3MPP 404Public Policy Process3
MPP 405 Statistical Methods & Analysis for Public Policy I 3MPP 406Statistical Methods & Analysis Public Policy II3
MPP 410 Special Topics in Public Policy 3MPP 413Intergovernmental Relations3
PSLD 400 Introduction to Public Service 3PSLD 402Foundations of Global Strategic Communication3
PSLD 403 Program Management and Development 3PSLD 404Data, Visualization and Evaluation3
PSLD 405 Design Thinking in Mitigating Complex Social
Problems3PSLD 430Understanding and Mitigating Poverty3
PSLD 431 Foundations of Social and Sustainable
Development3PSLD 432Gender Diversity & Sustainable Social
Development3
PSLD 433 Social Analysis Inequality Poverty and
Development3
Suggested Sequence of Course
The School of Continuing and Professional Studies provides a high-touch
advising model in order to incorporate the professional and educational
outcomes of the student as well as any transfer credit accepted.  In
order to provide students with maximum flexibility in their education and
because everyone’s academic background will vary, advisors will work
directly with students to determine an appropriate sequence of courses
starting at admission into their respective program based on their needs
and expected time to completion.
During the students’ senior year, the graduate-level Project Management
course  COMP 477  IT Project Management  will count toward the major
requirements, in lieu of the undergraduate course  CPST 349  Project
Management .
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3

--- Page 1238 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1269
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towardsthe master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.

--- Page 1239 ---
1270  Management/Instructional Design (BA/MPS)
Learning Outcomes
•Demonstrate effective business communication in written
narratives, memos, argumentative narratives, oral presentations, and
collaborative documents. [Management]
•Develop productive team processes, team building, and leadership
skills through self-assessment exercises, reflection activities, role
playing and critical thinking assignments. [Management]
•Analyze organizational theory, structure, power dynamics and
culture in persuasive written documents and oral presentations.
[Management]
•Describe the basic components of an organization’s control structure
and the role of accounting in an organization, through the analysis of
organizational ﬁnancial statements. [Management]
•Creatively solve business problems as evidenced by project
management simulations, strategic decision making, and quantita tive
analysis and effective use of business analytics. [Management]
•Apply an understanding of law and regulation to business processes
as evidenced by course assignments. [Management]
•Evaluate key policies, processes, and ethical decision making
involved in the oversight of information technology within an
organization in real world case studies. [Information Technology
Leadership and Strategy]
•Apply project management principles to ensure successful
implementation of core IT functions, such as network management,
system administration, infrastructure integration, and mobile
computing in coursework. [Information Technology Leadership and
Strategy]
•Create business plans that incorporate IT strategies, employing
creativity, innovation, and strategic thinking to identify opportunities,
address challenges, build strong relationships, and drive
organizational success. [Information Technology Leadership and
Strategy]
•Analyze key performance indicators (KPIs) to measure the impact
of IT management on organizational performance in written
assignments and case studies. [Information Technology Leadership
and Strategy]
Management/Instructional Design
(BA/MPS)
The Management/Instructional Design (BA/MPS) program is an
accelerated, online program  that gives students the opportunity
to pursue admission  to and begin classes for  the MPS degree in
Instructional Design while still working toward the completion of their
BA degree.  This program will allow students in the BA Management
program to take four of the courses from the MPS Instructional Design
program in their senior/ﬁnal year. A career in Instructional Design can be
attractive to BA Management  students as it builds upon the curriculum
of the Management degree such as  project  management, HR, and
communications. Instructional design will help deﬁne a career path
and  provide  relevant skills and knowledge for managers, trainers, and HR
personnel who deliver  training and instruction.
Related Programs
Major
•Management (BA)  (p. 863)
•Management (BBA)  (p. 783)Minor
•Management Minor  (p. 785)
Curriculum
Students may take u p to  12 credit hours of  400 level courses  required  for
the MPS Instructional Design while an undergraduate student.  The
four graduate courses, taken  during the students’ senior year will count
toward the degree requirements for both the  undergraduate and graduate
degree. 
They  will be considered  general elective hours counting toward the
120 credit hours needed for the undergraduate degree and count toward
the 30 credit  hour MPS  degree requirements. With four courses double-
counting, the total credit hours needed for  both  of the degrees  will be
reduced by 12 credit hours, for a total of 138 credit hours  across both
programs.
Code Title Hours
Management Major CoursesCPST 250Foundations of Organizations3
CPST 310 Accounting Principles and Application 3CPST 340Marketing Concepts and Strategies3
CPST 350 Human Resources Principles & Practices 3CPST 349Project Management3
CPST 243 Microeconomics 3CPST 245Macroeconomics3
STAT 103 Fundamentals of Statistics 3CPST 371Organizational Finance3
CPST 335 Law and Regulations for Organizational Leaders 3CPST 247Computer Concepts and Applications3
COMM 175 Introduction to Communication 3Select one of the following:3
CPST 322 Strategic Communication Tools for Applied PsychCOMM 231Conflict Management and CommunicationCOMM 277 Organizational CommunicationSCPS CoursesCPST 200 Introduction to Degree Completion 3CPST 201Civic Identity and Development3
CPST 397 Capstone 3Core RequirementsThe number of hours remaining toward Core requirements can vary
due to transfer credit.Mission Speciﬁc RequirementsMission speciﬁc requirements can vary from 0 to 15 credit hours
based on your prior credit.General Elective RequirementsStudents may have some general elective coursework to complete
if their transfer credit and remaining required hours (Core, mission
speciﬁc, major, etc.) do not total 120.BA/MPS Requirements12
Students may take up to 12 credit hours of 400 level courses required
for the MPS Instructional Design while an undergraduate student.
The four graduate courses, taken during the students’ senior year will
count toward the degree requirements for both the undergraduate
and graduate degree.

--- Page 1240 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1271CIEP 470 should be taken ﬁrst as it serves as a pre-requisite to other
courses. The remaining course suggestions included here can be
changed based on the student's scheduling needs.CIEP 470 Principles of Instructional DesignCIEP 488Participatory Action Research (PAR) in Schools
and CommunitiesINDN 421 Design & Development of Instructional MaterialsINDN 431Fundamentals of Learning AnalyticsMPS Instructional Design Courses 18CIEP 415Models of InstructionCIEP 425 Theory and Practice in AssessmentINDN 420Instructional Design Theories and ModelsINDN 430 Performance Improvement in OrganizationsINDN 440Applications of Human Centered Design PrinciplesINDN 490Instructional Design CapstoneTotal Hours78
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The School of Continuing and Professional Studies provides a high-touch
advising model in order to incorporate the professional and educational
outcomes of the student as well as any transfer credit accepted.  In
order to provide students with maximum flexibility in their education and
because everyone’s academic background will vary, advisors will work
directly with students to determine an appropriate sequence of courses
starting at admission into their respective program based on their needs
and expected time to completion.
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriatedesignated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the

--- Page 1241 ---
1272  Management/Instructional Design (BA/MPS)
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not requestdeferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
The Management (BA) degree program offers adult learners training in
business principles, ethical leadership, critical  thinking  and strategic
planning. Students will be prepared for professional advancement
in organization communications, community relations and project
management.
The Master of Professional Studies (MPS) in Instructional Design will
prepare students to  become generalist instructional designers who
are equipped to work in a variety of ﬁelds and  professional settings,
including both education and business environments.  This fully online
and application-oriented master’s degree will provide a strong foundation
in instructional design as  well as the tools and perspective needed
for flexible career paths and continuing professional  development in
the ﬁeld.  It provides  a breadth of foundational knowledge and skills in
different  areas, rather than a focus on a narrower area of specialization
within the ﬁeld, such as learning  technologies.  It will prepare instructional
designers to work with technical specialists as well as  subject matter
experts and allow them to develop more specialized interests as they
grow in their  profession.
Upon degree completion, graduates will be able to:
•Demonstrate effective business communication in written
narratives, memos, argumentative narratives, oral presentations, and
collaborative documents. [BA]
•Develop productive team processes, team building, and leadership
skills through self-assessment exercises, reflection activities, role
playing and critical thinking assignments. [BA]
•Analyze organizational theory, structure, power dynamics and culture
in persuasive written documents and oral presentations. [BA]
•Describe the basic components of an organization’s control structure
and the role of accounting in an organization, through the analysis of
organizational ﬁnancial statements. [BA]
•Creatively solve business problems as evidenced by project
management simulations, strategic decision making, and quantita tive
analysis. [BA]
•Apply an understanding of law and regulation to business processes
as evidenced by course assignments. [BA]
•Utilize instructional design processes and appropriate theoretical
approaches to design effective and innovative learning experiences.
[MPS]
•Employ a variety of technologies and multimedia authoring tools to
produce instructional materials. [MPS]
•Adapt instructional design processes to a variety of professional
settings (K-12 schools, corporate organizations, higher education
institutions, etc.) [MPS]
•Manage the iterative lifecycle of instructional design projects
progressing from conception to implementation to revision. [MPS]
•Apply culturally responsive and ethical practices that engage diverse
communities and promote social justice. [MPS]
•Conduct research designed to inform practice and stay abreast of
emerging trends in the ﬁeld of instructional design. [MPS]

--- Page 1242 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1273
•Build collaborative relationships with diverse stakeholders (e.g.,
administrators, faculty, students, technologists, project managers,
public) in support of meeting organizational needs. [MPS]
Management/Public Service
Leadership (BA/MA)
The Management/Public Service Leadership BA/MA program is an
accelerated, online program that gives academically successful Loyola
SCPS BA Management majors the opportunity to pursue the MA degree
in Public Service Leadership while completing their BA degree.
Related Programs
Combined
•Management/Information Technology Leadership and Strategy (BA/
MPS)  (p. 1267 )
•Management/Instructional Design (BA/MPS)  (p. 1270 )
Curriculum
Up to 12 credit hours taken at the 400 level can be shared between the
undergraduate and graduate degree. These credits fulﬁll general electives
for the 120 credits needed for the bachelor’s degree.
Code Title Hours
BA RequirementsCOMM 175Introduction to Communication3
CPST 243 Microeconomics 13CPST 245Macroeconomics 13
CPST 250 Foundations of Organizations 3CPST 310Accounting Principles and Application 13
CPST 335 Law and Regulations for Organizational Leaders 3CPST 340Marketing Concepts and Strategies 13
CPST 349 Project Management 3CPST 350Human Resources Principles & Practices3
CPST 371 Organizational Finance 3CPST 377Data in Management Decision-Making3
STAT 103 Fundamentals of Statistics 13Select one of the following:3
COMM 231 Conflict Management and CommunicationCOMM 277Organizational CommunicationCPST 322 Strategic Communication Tools for Applied PsychSCPS CoursesCPST 200 Introduction to Degree Completion 3CPST 201Civic Identity and Development3
CPST 397 Capstone 3Core RequirementsThe number of hours remaining toward Core requirements can vary
due to transfer credit.  2Mission Speciﬁc RequirementsMission speciﬁc requirements can vary from 0 to 15 credit hours
based on your prior credit.General Elective RequirementsStudents may have some general elective coursework to complete
if their transfer credit and remaining required hours (Core, mission
speciﬁc, major, etc.) do not total 120.MA RequirementsPSLD 400 Introduction to Public Service 3PSLD 402Foundations of Global Strategic Communication3
PSLD 403 Program Management and Development 3PSLD 404Data, Visualization and Evaluation3
PSLD 405 Design Thinking in Mitigating Complex Social
Problems3PSLD 420Disaster Operations and Management3
PSLD 423 Integrated Social-Medical Issues in Emergency
Management3PSLD 430Understanding and Mitigating Poverty3
PSLD 431 Foundations of Social and Sustainable
Development3Select one of the following:3
PSLD 422 Disasters and Vulnerable PopulationsPSLD 432Gender Diversity & Sustainable Social
DevelopmentPSLD 433Social Analysis Inequality Poverty and
DevelopmentTotal Hours78
1These courses are eligible for waiver to Loyola’s Quinlan School of
Business M.B.A. program. Final approval of waivers are determined by
a Quinlan academic advisor upon admission to the graduate program.
2Core Requirements -  Learn More  (p. 1405 )
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The School of Continuing and Professional Studies provides a high-touch
advising model in order to incorporate the professional and educational
outcomes of the student as well as any transfer credit accepted.  In
order to provide students with maximum flexibility in their education and
because everyone’s academic background will vary, advisors will work
directly with students to determine an appropriate sequence of courses
starting at admission into their respective program based on their needs
and expected time to completion.
BA Management students admitted to the MA program should start with
PSLD 400 Introduction to Public Service .
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.

--- Page 1243 ---
1274  Management/Public Service Leadership (BA/MA)
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level

--- Page 1244 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1275
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•Demonstrate effective business communication in written
narratives, memos, argumentative narratives, oral presentations, and
collaborative documents. [Management]
•Develop productive team processes, team building, and leadership
skills through self-assessment exercises, reflection activities, role
playing and critical thinking assignments. [Management]
•Analyze organizational theory, structure, power dynamics and
culture in persuasive written documents and oral presentations.
[Management]
•Describe the basic components of an organization’s control structure
and the role of accounting in an organization, through the analysis of
organizational ﬁnancial statements. [Management]
•Creatively solve business problems as evidenced by project
management simulations, strategic decision making, and quantita tive
analysis and effective use of business analytics. [Management]
•Apply an understanding of law and regulation to business processes
as evidenced by course assignments. [Management]
•Describe components and levels of leadership across public sectors.
[Public Service Leadership]
•Apply ethical reasoning to administrative design and decision-making
in the current realm of public service leadership. [Public Service
Leadership]
•Analyze how systems of power, privilege, and oppression (e.g.,
racism, sexism, heterosexism, ableism) operate to create and
maintain inequality as well as how resistance to these systems is
enacted. [Public Service Leadership]
•Describe the experiences of underrepresented, marginalized, or
oppressed communities within various contexts, including inequality
in outcomes and resistance to systems of oppression. [Public Service
Leadership]
•Collect and apply data in problem identiﬁcation and problem solving.
[Public Service Leadership]•Differentiate between non-crisis leadership and leadership in
emergencies among public, social and economic sectors. [Public
Service Leadership]
•Apply fundamentals of communication appropriate to situation in
both local and global situations. [Public Service Leadership]
Mathematics (BS/MS)
The accelerated BS/MS program in Mathematics gives academically
successful Loyola undergraduates the opportunity to pursue the
MS degree in Mathematics while completing their BS degree. This
is best suited for students pursuing a BS in mathematics, but can
be pursued with other  BS degrees  (http://www.luc.edu/math/
undergradprogs.shtml/ ) offered by the Department of Mathematics and
Statistics at the program director’s discretion.
There are several advantages to pursuing the BS/MS program. Chief
among them are time and cost: by taking graduate courses during their
senior year (at the undergraduate tuition rate), students in the BS/MS
program save one semester over the usual path to a Master’s degree.
Additionally, students in the STEM ﬁelds holding an MS degree are more
competitive for jobs.
STEM DESIGNATION
The MS in Mathematics has been granted a STEM designation from the
U.S. Department of Homeland Security. International students completing
degrees with this designation can qualify for extended OPT (Optional
Practical Training), bringing the total OPT time granted to 36 months.
Related Programs
Master's
•Applied Statistics (MS)  (p. 1622 )
•Data Science (MS)  (p. 1596 )
•Mathematics (MS)  (p. 1623 )
Combined
•Mathematics/Applied Statistics (BS/MS)  (p. 1279 )
Curriculum
Students in the BS/MS program are permitted to take up to 10
credit hours of 400-level courses that would apply toward their
MS program requirements while completing their undergraduate
degree. Of these, nine credits may come 400-level courses that have
300-level equivalents that satisfy BS program requirements. The one-
credit course  MATH 401  should also be taken during the student’s
undergraduate career. (While it does not fulﬁll any speciﬁc Mathematics
BS program requirement, it does count towards the credit-hours
requirement for a degree from the College of Arts & Sciences.)
The coursework includes required (“foundational”) courses in algebra,
analysis and statistics, as well as 18 credit hours of electives, chosen
from courses in Mathematics and cognate ﬁelds (such as Applied
Statistics, Data Science and Computer Science). With their practicum,
students design and independently carry out a research project under
faculty supervision.
Code Title Hours
BS Requirements  1Foundational Requirements

--- Page 1245 ---
1276  Mathematics (BS/MS)
MATH 161 Calculus I 4MATH 162Calculus II4
MATH 263 Multivariable Calculus 4MATH 264Ordinary Differential Equations3
MATH 201 Introduction to Discrete Mathematics & Number
Theory3MATH 212Linear Algebra3
STAT 203 Introduction to Probability & Statistics 3
or MATH 304 /
STAT 304Introduction to ProbabilityMATH 215Object-Oriented Programming with Mathematics3or COMP 170Introduction to Object-Oriented Programming
One year of Modern Algebra:MATH 313Abstract Algebra3
MATH 314 Advanced Topics Abstract Algebra 3
or MATH 315 Advanced Topics in Linear AlgebraOne year of Analysis:MATH 351 Introduction to Real Analysis I 3MATH 352Introduction to Real Analysis II3or MATH 353Introduction to Complex Analysis
Two 3-credit upper division (300-level) electives in mathematics  16Science RequirementsSelect two of the following: 6ANTH 101Human OriginsBIOL 101 General Biology IBIOL 102General Biology IICHEM 160 Chemical Structure and PropertiesCHEM 180Chemical Reactivity IENVS 101 The Scientiﬁc Basis of Environmental IssuesPHYS 121College Physics I with Calculus Lecture/
DiscussionPHYS 122 College Physics II with Calculus Lecture/
DiscussionMS RequirementsFoundational Course RequirementsMATH 416Survey of Algebra3
MATH 454 Survey of Analysis 3MATH 404 /
STAT 404Probability & Statistics I 23or STAT 408Applied Regression Analysis
Algebra or Analysis. Select one of the following: 3MATH 414Algebra IIMATH 415 Topics in Linear AlgebraMATH 452Analysis IIMATH 453 Complex AnalysisCognate Fields. Select one of the following:  33
STAT 405 /
MATH 405Probability & Statistics IISTAT 408Applied Regression AnalysisSTAT 410 Categorical Data AnalysisCOMP 429Natural Language ProcessingCOMP 487 Deep LearningDSCI 401Introduction to Data ScienceOr Another Course with Graduate Program Director Approval  4Additional RequirementsMATH 401 Introduction to Graduate Study in Mathematics 1MATH 495Graduate Practicum in Mathematics (elect four
electives chosen from Mathematics and approved
Statistics courses at the 400 level.)2Select four approved 400-level Electives in Mathematics or Statistics
512Total Hours72
1This BS degree has waivers for both Quantitative and Scientiﬁc core.
2Graduate MATH 400+ courses can also count towards this. This
means students have the opportunity to concurrently fulﬁll elective
requirements for both the Bachelor's and Master's part of the program
by selecting MATH 400+ elective courses.
3Students who select MATH 404/STAT 404 as a Foundational Course
may opt to take STAT 408 as a Depth Course, and vice versa.
4The depth requirement for Cognate Fields may be fulﬁlled by other
courses, including courses from other departments, with approval of
Graduate Program Director.
5Approved elective courses should be selected with advice of Graduate
Program Director to complement student's previous learning and
support future plans.
Interested students should reach out to the Graduate Program Director
in their sophomore year (or early junior year) to optimize course selection
for their remaining semesters.
Eligibility Requirements
•3.5 minimum GPA, in major-program coursework: MATH 161 ,
MATH 162 , MATH 263 , MATH 201 , and three courses (9 credits total)
chosen from MATH 212  and 300-level math/stat courses
•3.3 minimum GPA, across all Loyola coursework
•Satisfactory progress towards completion of Loyola's core
Program Policies
•AP Credit Policies
•No 300-level courses will apply toward graduate requirements. 
•A student with credit for a 300-level MATH/STAT/COMP course that
has an equivalent 400-level offering may not take the 400-level course
for separate credit.
•Additional MS policies appear below. 
MS Policies 
•At most three 400-level courses (nine credits) outside the MATH
designation will be counted for the MS program.
•At most six credits of independent study (MATH 498) or research
(MATH 495) will be counted for the program.
•Course selection for all 400-level electives should be made in
consultation with the Graduate Program Director
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
undergraduate and graduate program advisors for assistance with course
selection.

--- Page 1246 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1277
Important Note: what follows is  one choice , of many,  for selection of three
400-level courses to take during one's senior year.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
MATH 161 Calculus I 4Science Requirement3 Hours7
SpringMATH 162Calculus II4
MATH 201 Introduction to Discrete Mathematics &
Number Theory3Science Requirement3 Hours10
Year 2
FallMATH 263Multivariable Calculus4MATH 215 
or COMP 170Object-Oriented Programming with
Mathematics 
or Introduction to Object-Oriented
Programming3 Hours7
Spring
MATH 212 Linear Algebra 3MATH 264Ordinary Differential Equations3 Hours6
Year 3
FallMATH 313Abstract Algebra3STAT 203Introduction to Probability & Statistics3 Hours6
SpringMATH 314Advanced Topics Abstract Algebra3 Hours3
Year 4
Fall
MATH 351 Introduction to Real Analysis I 3MATH 401Introduction to Graduate Study in
Mathematics 11400-level Math Elective  13 Hours7
Spring
MATH 452 Analysis II 1,23400-level Math Elective  13 Hours6
Year 5
FallSTAT 408Applied Regression Analysis3
MATH 454 Survey of Analysis 3MATH 495Graduate Practicum in Mathematics2400-level Math/Stat Elective3 Hours11Spring
STAT 410 Categorical Data Analysis 33MATH 416Survey of Algebra3400-level Math/Stat Elective3 Hours9 Total Hours72
1Fulﬁlls undergraduate degree requirement and MS degree requirement.
2Used to satisfy the depth requirement in Algebra or Analysis.
3Used to satisfy the Cognate Fields depth requirement.
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/

--- Page 1247 ---
1278  Mathematics (BS/MS)
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum suchthat a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Graduate & Professional Standards and
Regulations
Students in graduate and professional programs can ﬁnd their Academic
Policies in Graduate and Professional Academic Standards and
Regulations  (p. 2300 ) under their school. Any additional University
Policies supersede school policies.

--- Page 1248 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1279
Dual Degree Programs
Students in dual degree programs are responsible for abiding by
academic policies and graduation requirements of both academic units
to which they are enrolled. It is strongly recommended that students
schedule regular meetings with academic advisors from both units
to ensure timely degree completion. Dual degree programs may have
slightly different degree requirements from the standard for one or both
of the degrees earned. Students should closely read through all degree
requirements and ask for clariﬁcation as needed.
Learning Outcomes
Graduates of the BS/MS in Mathematics Program will:
•be able to construct mathematical proofs of basic theorems, and to
write these proofs clearly using correct grammatical constructs and
appropriate mathematical notation;
•have seen applications of mathematics to areas across mathematical
disciplines and outside of mathematical disciplines;
•receive the training sufﬁcient for acceptance into PhD programs or
professional schools, or for hire in mathematics related industries;
•receive training on how to act responsibly and ethically within the
discipline.
Mathematics/Applied Statistics (BS/
MS)
The Accelerated Bachelor's Master's program allows undergraduate
students to receive their Master's Degree in a total of ﬁve years.  Students
apply in their junior year and must complete all requirements for the
undergraduate and graduate programs.  They are able to ﬁnish the
program in only one additional year by double counting up to 9 credits
in their senior year towards both their Undergraduate Degree and their
Master's Degree.
Related Programs
Major
•Statistics (BS)  (p. 535)
Combined
•Mathematics (BS/MS)  (p. 1275 )
•Mathematics - Education Track/Applied Statistics (BS/MS)  (p. 1287 )
Curriculum
AP Credit Policies  (p. 520)
Requirements
Code Title Hours
BS RequirementsRequired CoursesFoundational RequirementsMATH 161Calculus I4
MATH 162 Calculus II 4MATH 263Multivariable Calculus4
MATH 264 Ordinary Differential Equations 3MATH 201Introduction to Discrete Mathematics & Number
Theory3MATH 212 Linear Algebra 3STAT 203Introduction to Probability & Statistics3or MATH 304 /
STAT 304Introduction to Probability
MATH 215 Object-Oriented Programming with Mathematics 3
or COMP 170 Introduction to Object-Oriented ProgrammingOne year of Modern Algebra:MATH 313 Abstract Algebra 3MATH 314Advanced Topics Abstract Algebra3or MATH 315Advanced Topics in Linear Algebra
One year of Analysis:MATH 351Introduction to Real Analysis I3
MATH 352 Introduction to Real Analysis II 3
or MATH 353 Introduction to Complex AnalysisTwo 3-credit upper division (300-level) electives in mathematics.  16
Science RequirementsSelect two of the following:6
ANTH 101 Human OriginsBIOL 101General Biology IBIOL 102 General Biology IICHEM 160Chemical Structure and PropertiesCHEM 180 Chemical Reactivity IENVS 101The Scientiﬁc Basis of Environmental IssuesPHYS 121 College Physics I with Calculus Lecture/
DiscussionPHYS 122College Physics II with Calculus Lecture/
DiscussionMS RequirementsSTAT 401Introduction to Applied Statistics Using R1
STAT 403 SAS Program & Applied Statistics 3STAT 404Probability & Statistics I3
STAT 405 Probability & Statistics II 3STAT 407Statistical Design3
STAT 408 Applied Regression Analysis 3STAT 495Statistical Consulting Capstone2
Select Four (4) Elective Courses 12STAT 406Stochastic ProcessesSTAT 410 Categorical Data AnalysisSTAT 411Applied Survival AnalysisSTAT 421 Math Modeling & SimulationSTAT 426Advanced Statistical InferenceSTAT 436 Topics in BiostatisticsSTAT 438Introduction to Predictive AnalyticsSTAT 444 Longitudinal Data Analysis and Mixed ModelingSTAT 451Applied Nonparametric MethodsSTAT 488 Topics in StatisticsSTAT 498Independent Study StatisticsTotal Hours75
The BS degree has waivers for both Quantitative and Scientiﬁc core.

--- Page 1249 ---
1280  Mathematics/Applied Statistics (BS/MS)
MS Specializations
Our flexible program allows students to focus on their interests by
choosing a specialization. Possibilities include:SpecializationDescription
Biostatistics The Biostatistics specialization covers
non- and pre-clinical statistical methods,
bioassay, statistical genetics, clinical trials, and
bioinformatics.Environmental
StatisticsThe Environmental Statistics specialization
addresses Geographic Information Systems (GIS),
spatial statistics, and environmetrics.
General Applied
StatisticsThe specialization in General Applied Statistics
includes non-medical applications such as
actuarial, commercial, data-mining, industrial,
marketing, and national defense.Predictive Analytics/
ModelingThe Predictive Modeling specialization focuses on
big data analytics and modeling.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
Note:  This is only one possibility. Among other things, depending on
initial math placement, which can range from MATH 100 to MATH 263,
the schedule will look very different. Especially for students starting at
MATH 161 or above, there is a lot of space to pursue a minor or even a
second major.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
MATH 161 Calculus I 4Science Requirement3 Hours7
SpringMATH 162Calculus II4
MATH 201 Introduction to Discrete Mathematics &
Number Theory3Science Requirement3 Hours10
Year 2
FallMATH 263Multivariable Calculus4MATH 215 
or COMP 170Object-Oriented Programming with
Mathematics 
or Introduction to Object-Oriented
Programming3 Hours7
Spring
MATH 212 Linear Algebra 3MATH 264Ordinary Differential Equations3 Hours6
Year 3
FallMATH 313Abstract Algebra3STAT 203 
or MATH 304Introduction to Probability & Statistics 
or Introduction to Probability3 Hours6Spring
MATH 314 
or MATH 315Advanced Topics Abstract Algebra 
or Advanced Topics in Linear Algebra3300-level Major Elective3 Hours6
Year 4
FallMATH 351Introduction to Real Analysis I3400-level Major Elective3 Hours6
Spring
MATH 352 
or MATH 353Introduction to Real Analysis II 
or Introduction to Complex Analysis3400-level math class  Hours3
Year 5Students take remainder of MS courses in consultation with the
Graduate Program Director.24 Hours24 Total Hours75
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions

--- Page 1250 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1281
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while

--- Page 1251 ---
1282  Mathematics and Computer Science/Applied Statistics (BS/MS)
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•Students will have wide knowledge of and strong skills in using
the methods and tools that form the foundation of math. These
include calculus, linear algebra, and differential equations, as well as
statistics and computer sciences. [Mathematics]
•Students will acquire analytical and logical skills that form the
basis of mathematical thinking and reasoning. These skills will
enable problem solving, the abstraction to general principles from
speciﬁc examples, and the ability to use formal mathematical
language. Students will be able to apply these skills in a variety of
contexts. [Mathematics]
•Students will be fluent in the traditional mathematical subjects
such as abstract algebra and real analysis. They will be able to
use the methods and terminology in these ﬁeld to read and write
formal, logical proofs, and to communicate these both in writing and
verbally. [Mathematics]
•Students will understand how different sub-disciplines of
mathematics ﬁt together. They will be able to use their knowledge
in a variety of modern applications, both within math and in related
disciplines such as science, engineering and tech. They will also be
able to place these in a historical context. [Mathematics]
•Mastered the art and science of choosing and/or developing the
appropriate statistical model(s) for a given dataset-situation, and
have mastered the skill of interpreting the chosen model. [Applied
Statistics]
•Received sufﬁcient exposure to basic theorems and proofs used in
introductory probability and statistical inference. [Applied Statistics]
•Worked with data from application ﬁelds such as public/global health,
medical, industrial and environmental research. [Applied Statistics]
•Received training to ethically apply statistical training in the real
world. [Applied Statistics]
•Obtained hands-on experience and assimilated course material via
our 2cr Statistical Consulting capstone/practicum class. [Applied
Statistics]
•Sufﬁciently mastered the course and practicum material to
either obtain gainful employment in the ﬁeld of attend a Ph.D.
program [Applied Statistics]
Mathematics and Computer Science/
Applied Statistics (BS/MS)
The Accelerated Bachelor's Master's program allows undergraduate
students to receive their Master's Degree in a total of ﬁve years.  Students
apply in their junior year and must complete all requirements for the
undergraduate and graduate programs.  They are able to ﬁnish the
program in only one additional year by double counting up to 9 credits
in their senior year towards both their Undergraduate Degree and their
Master's Degree.
Related Programs
Major
•Mathematics (BS)  (p. 532)
•Mathematics and Computer Science (BS)  (p. 534)Combined
•Mathematics and Computer Science/Mathematics (BS/MS)
(p. 1284 )
Curriculum
AP Credit Policies  (p. 520)
Code Title Hours
BS RequirementsMath RequirementsMATH 161 Calculus I 4MATH 162Calculus II4
MATH 263 Multivariable Calculus 4MATH 201Introduction to Discrete Mathematics & Number
Theory3
MATH 212 Linear Algebra 3MATH 264Ordinary Differential Equations3
MATH 313 Abstract Algebra 3MATH 351Introduction to Real Analysis I3
STAT 203 Introduction to Probability & Statistics 3
or MATH 304 /
STAT 304Introduction to ProbabilitySelect two electives in mathematics from the following:6
MATH 309 Numerical MethodsMATH 314Advanced Topics Abstract AlgebraMATH 315 Advanced Topics in Linear AlgebraMATH 352Introduction to Real Analysis IIMATH 353 Introduction to Complex AnalysisComputer Science RequirementsCOMP 141 Introduction to Computing Tools and Techniques 3COMP 170Introduction to Object-Oriented Programming3
COMP 264 Introduction to Computer Systems 3COMP 271Data Structures I3
COMP 272 Data Structures II 3COMP 363Design and Analysis Computer Algorithms3
Select two 3-credit electives in Computer Science from the following: 6BIOL 388BioinformaticsAny 300-level COMP courseMATH 328Algebraic Coding TheoryMATH 331 CryptographySTAT 321Computational Aspects of Modeling and
SimulationMS RequirementsSTAT 401Introduction to Applied Statistics Using R1
STAT 403 SAS Program & Applied Statistics 3STAT 404Probability & Statistics I3
STAT 405 Probability & Statistics II 3STAT 407Statistical Design3
STAT 408 Applied Regression Analysis 3STAT 495Statistical Consulting Capstone2
Select Four (4) Elective Courses 12STAT 406Stochastic ProcessesSTAT 410 Categorical Data Analysis

--- Page 1252 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1283STAT 411Applied Survival AnalysisSTAT 421 Math Modeling & SimulationSTAT 426Advanced Statistical InferenceSTAT 436 Topics in BiostatisticsSTAT 438Introduction to Predictive AnalyticsSTAT 444 Longitudinal Data Analysis and Mixed ModelingSTAT 451Applied Nonparametric MethodsSTAT 488 Topics in StatisticsSTAT 498Independent Study StatisticsTotal Hours90
The BS degree has a waiver for the Quantitative core.
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted asan undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress

--- Page 1253 ---
1284  Mathematics and Computer Science/Mathematics (BS/MS)
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes 
•Students will have wide knowledge of and strong skills in using the
methods and tools that form the foundation of the mathematics and
computer science disciplines. These include calculus, linear algebra,
and differential equations, statistics, modern computer programming.
[Mathematics &amp; Computer Science]
•Students will acquire analytical and logical skills in the mathematical
and computer sciences. These skills will enable problem solving,the abstraction to general principles from speciﬁc examples as well
as the ability to design, implement, and evaluate a computational
system to meet a given set of requirements. [Mathematics &amp;
Computer Science]
•Students will understand traditional mathematical subjects such
as abstract algebra and real analysis. They will be able to use the
methods and terminology in these ﬁelds to read and write formal,
logical proofs, and to communicate these both in writing and
verbally. [Mathematics &amp; Computer Science]
•Students will understand the design and analysis of computer
algorithms. Students will be exposed to a variety of modern topics
which heavily rely on these algorithms and other knowledge of
computer science. [Mathematics &amp; Computer Science]
•Students will understand how different sub-disciplines of
mathematics and different topics learned in computer science ﬁt
together. They will be able to use their knowledge in a variety of
modern applications. [Mathematics &amp; Computer Science]
•Mastered the art and science of choosing and/or developing the
appropriate statistical model(s) for a given dataset-situation, and
have mastered the skill of interpreting the chosen model. [Applied
Statistics]
•Received sufﬁcient exposure to basic theorems and proofs used in
introductory probability and statistical inference. [Applied Statistics]
•Worked with data from application ﬁelds such as public/global health,
medical, industrial and environmental research. [Applied Statistics]
•Received training to ethically apply statistical training in the real
world. [Applied Statistics]
•Obtained hands-on experience and assimilated course material via
our 2cr Statistical Consulting capstone/practicum class. [Applied
Statistics]
•Sufﬁciently mastered the course and practicum material to
either obtain gainful employment in the ﬁeld of attend a Ph.D.
program [Applied Statistics]
Mathematics and Computer Science/
Mathematics (BS/MS)
The accelerated BS/MS program gives academically successful Loyola
undergraduates the opportunity to pursue the MS degree in Mathematics
while completing their BS degree. The B.S. in Mathematics and Computer
Science provides students with a strong foundation in both ﬁelds. Core
courses from the Mathematics and Computer Science curricula will aid
students to develop critical thinking and communication skills, as well as
a technical and practical understanding of programming and algorithm
design. Graduating students will be prepared for any industry jobs
requiring scientiﬁc computing skills and the ability to analyze, design, and
implement algorithms, such as data mining, ﬁnance, and risk analysis.
This major also prepares students for advanced degrees in computer
science, mathematics, and the STEM ﬁelds.
There are several advantages to pursuing the BS/MS program. Chief
among them are time and cost: by taking graduate courses during their
senior year (at the undergraduate tuition rate), students in the BS/MS
program save one semester over the usual path to a Master’s degree.
Additionally, students in the STEM ﬁelds holding an MS degree are more
competitive for jobs.

--- Page 1254 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1285
Related Programs
Major
•Mathematics (BS)  (p. 532)
•Mathematics and Computer Science (BS)  (p. 534)
Combined
•Mathematics and Computer Science/Applied Statistics (BS/MS)
(p. 1282 )
Curriculum
The following are required to complete this accelerated bachelor's/
master's program:
•Successful completion of the Mathematics and Computer Science
BS, within the College of Arts & Sciences.
•Successful completion of the 30-credit Mathematics MS degree with
a GPA of 3.0 or higher.
Students in the BS/MS program are permitted to take up to 10
credit hours of 400-level courses that would apply toward their
MS program requirements while completing their undergraduate
degree. Of these, nine credits may come 400-level courses that have
300-level equivalents that satisfy BS program requirements. The one-
credit course  MATH 401  should also be taken during the student’s
undergraduate career. (While it does not fulﬁll any speciﬁc undergraduate
program requirement, it does count towards the credit-hours requirement
for a degree from the College of Arts & Sciences.)
Code Title Hours
BS RequirementsMath RequirementsMATH 161 Calculus I 4MATH 162Calculus II4
MATH 263 Multivariable Calculus 4MATH 201Introduction to Discrete Mathematics & Number
Theory3
MATH 212 Linear Algebra 3MATH 264Ordinary Differential Equations3
MATH 313 Abstract Algebra 3MATH 351Introduction to Real Analysis I3
STAT 203 Introduction to Probability & Statistics 3
or MATH 304 /
STAT 304Introduction to ProbabilitySelect two electives in mathematics from the following:6
MATH 309 Numerical MethodsMATH 314Advanced Topics Abstract AlgebraMATH 315 Advanced Topics in Linear AlgebraMATH 352Introduction to Real Analysis IIMATH 353 Introduction to Complex AnalysisComputer Science RequirementsCOMP 141 Introduction to Computing Tools and Techniques 3COMP 170Introduction to Object-Oriented Programming3
COMP 264 Introduction to Computer Systems 3COMP 271Data Structures I3
COMP 272 Data Structures II 3COMP 363Design and Analysis Computer Algorithms3Select two 3-credit electives in Computer Science from the following: 6BIOL 388BioinformaticsAny 300-level COMP courseMATH 328Algebraic Coding TheoryMATH 331 CryptographySTAT 321Computational Aspects of Modeling and
SimulationMS RequirementsFoundational Course RequirementsMATH 416 Survey of Algebra 3MATH 454Survey of Analysis3
MATH 404 /
STAT 404Probability & Statistics I 13
or STAT 408 Applied Regression AnalysisDepth Requirement CoursesSelect one of the following: 3MATH 414Algebra IIMATH 415 Topics in Linear AlgebraMATH 452Analysis IIMATH 453 Complex AnalysisSelect one of the following:  13
MATH 405 /
STAT 405Probability & Statistics IISTAT 410Categorical Data AnalysisCOMP 429 Natural Language ProcessingCOMP 487Deep LearningDSCI 401 Introduction to Data ScienceOr another course with Graduate Program Director approvalAdditional RequirementsMATH 401Introduction to Graduate Study in Mathematics1
MATH 495 Graduate Practicum in Mathematics 2Four (4) approved 400-level Electives in Mathematics or Statistics  212Total Hours90
1Students who select MATH 404 /STAT 404  in Foundational Courses may opt to
take STAT 408  as a Depth Course, and vice versa.
2Approved elective courses should be selected with advice of Graduate
Program Director to complement student's previous learning and
support future plans.
The BS degree has a waiver for the Quantitative core.
Further Information
Interested students should reach out to the Graduate Program Director
in their sophomore year (or early junior year) to optimize course selection
for their remaining semesters.
Eligibility Requirements
•3.5 minimum GPA, in major-program
coursework:  MATH 161 , MATH 162 , MATH 263 , MATH 201 , and three
courses (9 credits total) chosen from  MATH 212  and 300-level math/
stat courses
•3.3 minimum GPA, across all Loyola coursework
•Satisfactory progress towards completion of Loyola's core

--- Page 1255 ---
1286  Mathematics and Computer Science/Mathematics (BS/MS)
Program Policies
•AP Credit Policies  (p. 520)
•No 300-level courses will apply toward graduate requirements. 
•A student with credit for a 300-level MATH/STAT/COMP course that
has an equivalent 400-level offering may not take the 400-level course
for separate credit.
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuitionand Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.

--- Page 1256 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1287
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•Students will have wide knowledge of and strong skills in using the
methods and tools that form the foundation of the mathematics and
computer science disciplines. These include calculus, linear algebra,
and differential equations, statistics, modern computer programming.
[BS]
•Students will acquire analytical and logical skills in the mathematical
and computer sciences. These skills will enable problem solving,
the abstraction to general principles from speciﬁc examples as well
as the ability to design, implement, and evaluate a computational
system to meet a given set of requirements. [BS]
•Students will understand traditional mathematical subjects such
as abstract algebra and real analysis. They will be able to use the
methods and terminology in these ﬁelds to read and write formal,logical proofs, and to communicate these both in writing and
verbally. [BS]
•Students will understand the design and analysis of computer
algorithms. Students will be exposed to a variety of modern topics
which heavily rely on these algorithms and other knowledge of
computer science. [BS]
•Students will understand how different sub-disciplines of
mathematics and different topics learned in computer science ﬁt
together. They will be able to use their knowledge in a variety of
modern applications. [BS]
•Graduates will be able to construct mathematical proofs of basic
theorems, and to write these proofs clearly using correct grammatical
constructs and appropriate mathematical notation [MS]
•Graduates will have seen applications of mathematics to areas
across mathematical disciplines and outside of mathematical
disciplines [MS]
•Graduates will receive the training sufﬁcient for acceptance into PhD
programs or professional schools, or for hire in mathematics related
industries [MS]
•Graduates will receive training on how to act responsibly and ethically
within the discipline [MS]
Mathematics - Education Track/
Applied Statistics (BS/MS)
The Accelerated Bachelor's Master's program allows undergraduate
students to receive their Master's Degree in a total of ﬁve years.  Students
apply in their junior year and must complete all requirements for the
undergraduate and graduate programs.  They are able to ﬁnish the
program in only one additional year by double counting up to 9 credits
in their senior year towards both their Undergraduate Degree and their
Master's Degree.
Related Programs
Major
•Mathematics - Education Track (BS)  (p. 533)
Master's
•Applied Statistics (MS)  (p. 1622 )
Combined
•Mathematics - Education Track/Mathematics (BS/MS)  (p. 1290 )
CURRICULUM
Code Title Hours
BS Requirements  1Education Course RequirementsTLSC 300A Professional Learning Communities 0TLSC 110The Profession and Our Program (TLLSC)1
TLSC 120 Bringing Language, Learning & Development
Theory into Practice2TLSC 130Sequence One: 130 Community Immersion1
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities 1TLSC 140Teaching, Learning and Leading for Social Justice1
TLSC 150 Constructive Learning Environments For Diverse
Students1

--- Page 1257 ---
1288  Mathematics - Education Track/Applied Statistics (BS/MS)TLSC 160Analyzing Culturally-Responsive Classroom
Instruction1
Mathematics Course RequirementsMATH 161Calculus I4
MATH 162 Calculus II 4MATH 263Multivariable Calculus4
Select one of the following: 3MATH 215Object-Oriented Programming with MathematicsCOMP 170 Introduction to Object-Oriented ProgrammingMATH 212Linear Algebra3
MATH 201 Introduction to Discrete Mathematics & Number
Theory3STAT 203Introduction to Probability & Statistics3or STAT 335Introduction to Biostatistics
MATH 301 History of Mathematics 3MATH 313Abstract Algebra3
MATH 318 Combinatorics 3MATH 360Introduction to Game Theory3
MATH 344 Geometry 3MS RequirementsSTAT 401 Introduction to Applied Statistics Using R 1STAT 403SAS Program & Applied Statistics3
STAT 404 Probability & Statistics I 3STAT 405Probability & Statistics II3
STAT 407 Statistical Design 3STAT 408Applied Regression Analysis3
STAT 495 Statistical Consulting Capstone 2Select Four (4) Elective Courses12
STAT 406 Stochastic ProcessesSTAT 410Categorical Data AnalysisSTAT 411 Applied Survival AnalysisSTAT 421Math Modeling & SimulationSTAT 426 Advanced Statistical InferenceSTAT 436Topics in BiostatisticsSTAT 438 Introduction to Predictive AnalyticsSTAT 444Longitudinal Data Analysis and Mixed ModelingSTAT 451 Applied Nonparametric MethodsSTAT 488Topics in StatisticsSTAT 498Independent Study StatisticsTotal Hours77
147 total credit hours (39 - Math, 8 - Education) for the undergraduate
degree. This degree has a waiver for the Quantitative core.
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  •Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.

--- Page 1258 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1289
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•Students will have wide knowledge of and strong skills in using
the methods and tools that form the foundation of math. These
include calculus, linear algebra, and differential equations, as well as
statistics and computer sciences. [BS]
•Students will acquire analytical and logical skills that form the basis
of mathematical thinking and reasoning. These skills will enable
problem solving, the abstraction to general principles from speciﬁc
examples, and the ability to use formal mathematical language.
Students will be able to apply these skills in written and verbal
communication. [BS]
•Students will be exposed to the traditional areas of classical
geometry and abstract algebra. They will be able to use the methods
and terminology in these ﬁelds to understand the role of deﬁnitions,
axioms and theorems that underlie all mathematical ideas. Students
will be exposed to the history of mathematical thought across diverse
cultures. [BS]
•Students will obtain an advanced perspective on a variety of
mathematical topics and see how these can be generalized and
employed in real world problems relevant to the high school
curriculum. [BS]
•Students will acquire basic knowledge of the teaching and education
profession. Students will be prepared to utilize a variety of teaching
techniques to positively influence student learning and success. [BS]

--- Page 1259 ---
1290  Mathematics - Education Track/Mathematics (BS/MS)
•Students are expected to have mastered the art and science of
choosing and/or developing the appropriate statistical model(s) for
a given dataset-situation, and have mastered the skill of interpreting
the chosen model. [MS]
•Students are expected to have received sufﬁcient exposure to basic
theorems and proofs used in introductory probability and statistical
inference. [MS]
•Students are expected to have worked with data from application
ﬁelds such as public/global health, medical, industrial and
environmental research. [MS]
•Students are expected to have received training to ethically apply
statistical training in the real world. [MS]
•Students are expected to have obtained hands-on experience
and assimilated course material via our 2 credit hour Statistical
Consulting capstone/practicum class. [MS]
•Students are expected to have sufﬁciently mastered the course and
practicum material to either obtain gainful employment in the ﬁeld of
attend a Ph.D. program [MS] 
Mathematics - Education Track/
Mathematics (BS/MS)
The accelerated BS/MS program gives academically successful Loyola
undergraduates the opportunity to pursue the MS degree in Mathematics
while completing their BS degree. The BS in Mathematics - Education
Track, coupled with a  Major in Secondary Education  or with a  Master's
Degree in Education  (p. 869), prepares students for a career in teaching
secondary school mathematics. 
There are several advantages to pursuing the BS/MS program. Chief
among them are time and cost: by taking graduate courses during their
senior year (at the undergraduate tuition rate), students in the BS/MS
program save one semester over the usual path to a Master’s degree.
Additionally, students in the STEM ﬁelds holding an MS degree are more
competitive for jobs.
Related Programs
Major
•Mathematics - Education Track (BS)  (p. 533)
Combined
•Mathematics (BS/MS)  (p. 1275 )
•Mathematics - Education Track/Applied Statistics (BS/MS)  (p. 1287 )
Curriculum
The following are required to complete this accelerated bachelor's/
master's program:
•Successful completion of the Mathematics - Education Track
BS, within the College of Arts & Sciences.
•Successful completion of the 30-credit Mathematics MS degree with
a GPA of 3.0 or higher.
Students in the BS/MS program are permitted to take up to 10
credit hours of 400-level courses that would apply toward their
MS program requirements while completing their undergraduate
degree. Of these, nine credits may come 400-level courses that have
300-level equivalents that satisfy BS program requirements. The one-
credit course  MATH 401  should also be taken during the student’sundergraduate career. (While it does not fulﬁll any speciﬁc undergraduate
program requirement, it does count towards the credit-hours requirement
for a degree from the College of Arts & Sciences.)
Code Title Hours
BS Requirements  1Education Course RequirementsTLSC 300A Professional Learning Communities 0TLSC 110The Profession and Our Program (TLLSC)1
TLSC 120 Bringing Language, Learning & Development
Theory into Practice2TLSC 130Sequence One: 130 Community Immersion1
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities 1TLSC 140Teaching, Learning and Leading for Social Justice1
TLSC 150 Constructive Learning Environments For Diverse
Students1TLSC 160Analyzing Culturally-Responsive Classroom
Instruction1
Mathematics Course RequirementsMATH 161Calculus I4
MATH 162 Calculus II 4MATH 263Multivariable Calculus4
Select one of the following: 3MATH 215Object-Oriented Programming with MathematicsCOMP 170 Introduction to Object-Oriented ProgrammingMATH 212Linear Algebra3
MATH 201 Introduction to Discrete Mathematics & Number
Theory3STAT 203Introduction to Probability & Statistics3or STAT 335Introduction to Biostatistics
MATH 301 History of Mathematics 3MATH 313Abstract Algebra3
MATH 318 Combinatorics 3MATH 360Introduction to Game Theory3
MATH 344 Geometry 3MS RequirementsFoundational RequirementsMATH 416Survey of Algebra3
MATH 454 Survey of Analysis 3STAT 404Probability & Statistics I3or STAT 408Applied Regression Analysis
Depth RequirementsA second course in algebra or analysis chosen from:3
MATH 414 Algebra IIMATH 415Topics in Linear AlgebraMATH 452 Analysis IIMATH 453Complex AnalysisA second course in statistics or a cognate ﬁeld chosen from: 3STAT 404Probability & Statistics ISTAT 405 Probability & Statistics IISTAT 408Applied Regression AnalysisSTAT 410 Categorical Data AnalysisCOMP 429Natural Language ProcessingCOMP 487 Deep Learning

--- Page 1260 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1291DSCI 401Introduction to Data ScienceOr courses in other programs, with approvalAdditional RequirementsMATH 401 Introduction to Graduate Study in Mathematics 1MATH 495Graduate Practicum in Mathematics2
Mathematics & Statistics ElectivesFour electives chosen from Mathematics and approved Statistics
courses at the 400 level.  212Total Hours77
147 total credit hours (39 - Math, 8 - Education) for the undergraduate
degree. This degree has a waiver for the Quantitative core.
2A list of possible elective courses may be found  here
(p. 2803 ) and  here  (p. 2913 ).
Program Policies
•AP Credit Policies  (p. 520)
•No 300-level courses will apply toward graduate requirements. 
•A student with credit for a 300-level MATH/STAT/COMP course that
has an equivalent 400-level offering may not take the 400-level course
for separate credit.
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissionsprocess. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4

--- Page 1261 ---
1292  Multimedia Journalism/Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned whilein the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•Students will have wide knowledge of and strong skills in using
the methods and tools that form the foundation of math. These
include calculus, linear algebra, and differential equations, as well as
statistics and computer sciences. [BS]
•Students will acquire analytical and logical skills that form the basis
of mathematical thinking and reasoning. These skills will enable
problem solving, the abstraction to general principles from speciﬁc
examples, and the ability to use formal mathematical language.
Students will be able to apply these skills in written and verbal
communication. [BS]
•Students will be exposed to the traditional areas of classical
geometry and abstract algebra. They will be able to use the methods
and terminology in these ﬁelds to understand the role of deﬁnitions,
axioms and theorems that underlie all mathematical ideas. Students
will be exposed to the history of mathematical thought across diverse
cultures. [BS]
•Students will obtain an advanced perspective on a variety of
mathematical topics and see how these can be generalized and
employed in real world problems relevant to the high school
curriculum. [BS]
•Students will acquire basic knowledge of the teaching and education
profession. Students will be prepared to utilize a variety of teaching
techniques to positively influence student learning and success. [BS]
•Students will be able to construct mathematical proofs of basic
theorems, and to write these proofs clearly using correct grammatical
constructs and appropriate mathematical notation [MS]
•Students will have seen applications of mathematics to areas across
mathematical disciplines and outside of mathematical disciplines
[MS]
•Students will receive the training sufﬁcient for acceptance into PhD
programs or professional schools, or for hire in mathematics related
industries [MS]
•Students will receive training on how to act responsibly and ethically
within the discipline [MS]
Multimedia Journalism/
Environmental Science and
Sustainability (BA/MS)
Loyola’s School of Communication, in partnership with the School of
Environmental Sustainability, offers a program that enables students
to earn an undergraduate and graduate degree in environmental
communication in ﬁve years.
The Accelerated Bachelor's to Master's program allows SOC students to
earn their undergraduate degree in their declared major, plus a master’s
degree in Environmental Science and Sustainability.
Similarly, SES students can earn their undergraduate degree in
their declared major, while also earning a master’s degree from the
SOC in either the Digital Media and Storytelling or Global Strategic
Communication graduate programs.
The two schools developed the Accelerated Bachelor's to
Master's program to train environmental scientists to be better

--- Page 1262 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1293
communicators, and communication professionals to better understand
environmental science.
These 4+1 programs are uniquely applied and strongly interdisciplinary.
They integrate basic science concepts, communication theory and
practice, and socio-cultural dimensions to cultivate the interdisciplinary
problem-solving and communication skills necessary for developing
sustainable solutions. The goals of these programs are to:
•Educate students across the sciences, social sciences and
humanities, providing knowledge and interdisciplinary perspectives
needed to effectively address complex environmental problems
through grounding in solid scientiﬁc understanding of ecosystem
operation.
•Develop skills in environmental and sustainability sciences including
GIS, sustainability tracking, and environmental communications
as well as important professional skills, such as interdisciplinary
thinking, systems thinking, research design, data collection, data
analysis, research ethics, technical writing, and communication.
•Improve communication skills by teaching students how to tell
stories through enhanced speaking and presentation methods, better
writing, video production, recording podcasts, developing blogs and
social media.
•Prepare students for advancement in careers in the public and private
sectors, including in government agencies, consulting ﬁrms, media
organizations, businesses, and not-for-proﬁt organizations.
For more information, email:   LoyolaSOC@luc.edu
Related Programs
Major
•Multimedia Journalism (BA)  (p. 835)
Minor
•Multimedia Journalism Minor  (p. 836)
Combined
•Multimedia Journalism/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1298 )
Curriculum  
Code Title Hours
BA RequirementsSOC Foundation CoursesCOMM 100 SOC Career Prep Seminar 1COMM 175Introduction to Communication3
COMM 200 Digital Communication and Society 3COMM 215Ethics & Communication3
Journalism Foundation CoursesCOMM 205Reporting Basics I: Writing and Interviewing3
COMM 208 Reporting Basics II: Technology for Journalists 3COMM 145Video for Journalists3
Research MethodsCOMM 362Multimedia Journalism Research Methods3
ValuesCOMM 279Critical Issues in Journalism3
COMM 282 Media Law 3Intermediate CoursesSelect three of the following: 9COMM 207PhotojournalismCOMM 256 Broadcast NewswritingCOMM 259News EditingCOMM 260 Environmental JournalismCOMM 262Feature & Opinion WritingCOMM 263 Editorial Design I: Newspaper & OnlineCOMM 265Sports BroadcastingCOMM 275 Web Design and UsabilityCOMM 311Health CommunicationCOMM 372 Special Topics: Multimedia JournalismAdvanced CoursesSelect two of the following: 6COMM 315Advanced Reporting TopicsCOMM 327 Mastering Video Reporting and StorytellingCOMM 328Editorial Design II: Magazine & InteractiveCOMM 332 Investigative & Public Affairs ReportingCOMM 339Video DocumentaryCOMM 358 Newscasting and ProducingCOMM 373Digital Storytelling AbroadCOMM 398 Directed StudyInternshipCOMM 392 Multimedia Journalism Internship 3MS RequirementsRequired MS Courses  1COMM 406Environmental Advocacy3
COMM 479 Digital Sustainability 3ENVS 401Sustainable Systems - Natural Science
Perspectives3
ENVS 402 Sustainable Systems - Social Science Perspectives 3Choose One of Four Concentrations:  29-12
Environmental Law & PolicyENVS 410Introduction to Environmental Law & PolicyENVS 411 Natural Resources and Land Use Law & PolicyENVS 412Water Law & PolicyENVS 413 Energy Law & PolicyGeographic Information SystemsENVS 480 Introduction to Geographic Information SystemsENVS 481Advanced GIS ApplicationsENVS 482 Remote SensingSustainable Assessment and PlanningENVS 451 Introduction to Sustainability Concepts & ImpactsENVS 452Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IENVS 453 Sustainability Assessment & Reporting IIENVS 454Sustainability Plan Development & ReportingSustainable BusinessENVS 433Introduction to the Circular EconomyENVS 435 Ecological EconomicsENVS 436Design for Circular & Sustainable BusinessENVS 463 Sustainable Business ManagementEnvironmental Science Quantitative Methods Electives  (p. 1294 ) 36-9

--- Page 1263 ---
1294  Multimedia Journalism/Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)Students will take at least two courses from the list of electivesTotal Hours76
1Courses to be taken as an undergrad in Senior year.
2Begin MS program full-time at the start with the concentration work.
3Students choosing the Geographical Information Systems track must
take an additional elective course to meet a total of 24 credit hours for
the MS.
MS Environmental Science & Quantitative
Methods Electives
Code Title Hours
BIOL 470 Biostats & Exp Design Lec/Lab 4ENVS 420Conservation Biology3
ENVS 422 Invasive Species 3ENVS 425Sustainable Agriculture3
ENVS 426 Agroecosystems 3ENVS 427Food Systems Analysis3
ENVS 430 Restoration Ecology 3ENVS 438Climate Change and Human Health3
ENVS 469 Field Ornithology 3ENVS 484Conservation Economics3
ENVS 487 Principles of Ecotoxicology 3ENVS 488Applied Environmental Statistics3
ENVS 489 Ecological Risk Assessment 3MPBH 401Environmental Health3
MPBH 403 Introduction to Epidemiology 3MPBH 404Biostatistics for Health and Biological Science3
MPBH 409 Biostatistics I 3MPBH 412Intro to Statistical Computing for Public Health1-3
MPBH 421 Biostatistics II 3MPP 401Analytical Tools in Public Policy3
MPP 402 Cost Beneﬁt Analysis 3MPP 403Public Budget and Finance3
MPP 405 Statistical Methods & Analysis for Public Policy I 3MPP 406Statistical Methods & Analysis Public Policy II3
SOCL 414 Statistical Methods Analysis I 3SOCL 415Statistical Methods of Analysis II3
STAT 403 SAS Program & Applied Statistics 3STAT 407Statistical Design3
STAT 408 Applied Regression Analysis 3STAT 410Categorical Data Analysis3
STAT 411 Applied Survival Analysis 3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.With MS Law & Policy Track
Course Title Hours
First Year
Fall
COMM 145 Video for Journalists 3COMM 175Introduction to Communication3 Hours6
SpringCOMM 200Digital Communication and Society3COMM 205Reporting Basics I: Writing and Interviewing3 Hours6
Second Year
FallCOMM 208Reporting Basics II: Technology for
Journalists3 Hours3
Spring
COMM 279 Critical Issues in Journalism 3Major Intermediate Course3 Hours6
Third Year
FallCOMM 100SOC Career Prep Seminar1
COMM 215 Ethics & Communication 3Major Intermediate Course3 Hours7
SpringCOMM 282Media Law3
COMM 362 Multimedia Journalism Research Methods 3Major Advanced Course3 Hours9
Fourth Year
FallCOMM 392Multimedia Journalism Internship3
Major Advanced Course 3COMM 406Environmental Advocacy3
COMM 479 Digital Sustainability 3ENVS 402Sustainable Systems - Social Science
Perspectives3 Hours15
SpringMajor Intermediate Course3ENVS 401Sustainable Systems - Natural Science
Perspectives3 Hours6
Fifth Year
Fall
ENVS 410 Introduction to Environmental Law & Policy 3ENVS 411Natural Resources and Land Use Law &
Policy3MS Elective Course3 Hours9

--- Page 1264 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1295
Spring
ENVS 412 Water Law & Policy 3ENVS 413Energy Law & Policy3MS Elective Course3 Hours9 Total Hours76
With MS Geographical Information Systems Track
Course Title Hours
First Year
Fall
COMM 145 Video for Journalists 3COMM 175Introduction to Communication3 Hours6
SpringCOMM 200Digital Communication and Society3COMM 205Reporting Basics I: Writing and Interviewing3 Hours6
Second Year
FallCOMM 208Reporting Basics II: Technology for
Journalists3 Hours3
Spring
COMM 279 Critical Issues in Journalism 3Major Intermediate Course3 Hours6
Third Year
FallCOMM 100SOC Career Prep Seminar1
COMM 215 Ethics & Communication 3Major Intermediate Course3 Hours7
SpringCOMM 282Media Law3
COMM 362 Multimedia Journalism Research Methods 3Major Advanced Course3 Hours9
Fourth Year
FallCOMM 392Multimedia Journalism Internship3
Major Advanced Course 3COMM 406Environmental Advocacy3
COMM 479 Digital Sustainability 3ENVS 402Sustainable Systems - Social Science
Perspectives3 Hours15
SpringMajor Intermediate Course3ENVS 401Sustainable Systems - Natural Science
Perspectives3 Hours6Fifth Year
Fall
ENVS 480 Introduction to Geographic Information
Systems3ENVS 481Advanced GIS Applications3MS Elective Course3 Hours9
Spring
ENVS 482 Remote Sensing 3MS Elective Course3MS Elective Course3 Hours9 Total Hours76
With MS Sustainable Assessment & Planning Track
Course Title Hours
First Year
Fall
COMM 145 Video for Journalists 3COMM 175Introduction to Communication3 Hours6
SpringCOMM 200Digital Communication and Society3COMM 205Reporting Basics I: Writing and Interviewing3 Hours6
Second Year
FallCOMM 208Reporting Basics II: Technology for
Journalists3 Hours3
Spring
COMM 279 Critical Issues in Journalism 3Major Intermediate Course3 Hours6
Third Year
FallCOMM 100SOC Career Prep Seminar1
COMM 215 Ethics & Communication 3Major Intermediate Course3 Hours7
SpringCOMM 282Media Law3
COMM 362 Multimedia Journalism Research Methods 3Major Advanced Course3 Hours9
Fourth Year
FallCOMM 392Multimedia Journalism Internship3
Major Advanced Course 3COMM 406Environmental Advocacy3
COMM 479 Digital Sustainability 3

--- Page 1265 ---
1296  Multimedia Journalism/Environmental Science and Sustainability (BA/MS)ENVS 402Sustainable Systems - Social Science
Perspectives3 Hours15
SpringMajor Intermediate Course3ENVS 401Sustainable Systems - Natural Science
Perspectives3 Hours6
Fifth Year
Fall
ENVS 451 Introduction to Sustainability Concepts &
Impacts3ENVS 452Sustainability Assessment & Reporting I3MS Elective Course3 Hours9
Spring
ENVS 453 Sustainability Assessment & Reporting II 3ENVS 454Sustainability Plan Development &
Reporting3MS Elective Course3 Hours9 Total Hours76
With MS Sustainable Business Track
Course Title Hours
First Year
Fall
COMM 145 Video for Journalists 3COMM 175Introduction to Communication3 Hours6
SpringCOMM 200Digital Communication and Society3COMM 205Reporting Basics I: Writing and Interviewing3 Hours6
Second Year
FallCOMM 208Reporting Basics II: Technology for
Journalists3 Hours3
Spring
COMM 279 Critical Issues in Journalism 3Major Intermediate Course3 Hours6
Third Year
FallCOMM 100SOC Career Prep Seminar1
COMM 215 Ethics & Communication 3Major Intermediate Course3 Hours7
SpringCOMM 282Media Law3
COMM 362 Multimedia Journalism Research Methods 3Major Advanced Course3 Hours9
Fourth Year
FallCOMM 392Multimedia Journalism Internship3
Major Advanced Course 3COMM 406Environmental Advocacy3
COMM 479 Digital Sustainability 3ENVS 402Sustainable Systems - Social Science
Perspectives3 Hours15
SpringMajor Intermediate Course3ENVS 401Sustainable Systems - Natural Science
Perspectives3 Hours6
Fifth Year
Fall
ENVS 433 Introduction to the Circular Economy 3ENVS 435Ecological Economics3MS Elective Course3 Hours9
Spring
ENVS 436 Design for Circular & Sustainable Business 3ENVS 463Sustainable Business Management3MS Elective Course3 Hours9 Total Hours76
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit

--- Page 1266 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1297
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code thatindicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students

--- Page 1267 ---
1298  Multimedia Journalism/International Affairs (BA/MA)
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•Develop skills in research, interviewing, reporting and writing.
•Become proﬁcient at shooting and editing photos and video.
•Gain knowledge and skills at recording and editing audio.
•Learn how to design web sites and other types of digital content.
•Learn how to gather and analyze data for use in telling stories.
•Make a commitment to seeking the truth, ethics and social justice.
•Articulate the foundational principles of natural and social sciences
and humanities essential to solving environmental problems.
•Critically evaluate the accuracy and credibility of information relating
to environmental topics.
•Employ knowledge and skills to design and implement solutions that
contribute to a just and sustainable world.
•Exemplify the values of environmental and social justice through
actions to care for our common home and one another.
Multimedia Journalism/International
Affairs (BA/MA)
The growing interconnectedness of the world’s almost 200 countries,
termed globalization, and the rising impacts of foreign affairs on our
daily lives increasingly require individuals with advanced knowledge of
International Affairs. The Accelerated BA/MA in Multimedia Journalism
and International Affairs allows students to explore global problems
and interactions from an interdisciplinary perspective that makes use
of eight Arts and Sciences academic departments and four additional
colleges. Students will have the flexibility to tailor their program to ﬁt
their individual interests. Students can fulﬁll a capstone experience by
participating in an internship, taking a study abroad class, writing a paper
for publication, or writing a master’s thesis.
Loyola University Chicago and the City of Chicago together serve as the
ideal location for an MA in International Affairs: Loyola embodies a long
commitment to interdisciplinary education; and Chicago is consistently
ranked as one of the top ten global cities in the world. The program offers
a unique urban setting for students interested in the advanced study of
International Affairs.
The majority of full-time students are expected to ﬁnish the program
in 5 years, as opposed to the six years if both programs are pursued
separately. Undergraduate students from participating programs at
Loyola will be able to pursue an accelerated BA/MA in Multimedia
Journalism and International Affairs.
Students will also be able to take graduate courses in the School of
Communication, the School of Education (International Education), theSchool of Law, Parkinson School of Health Sciences and Public Health,
Quinlan School of Business, and the School of Social Work.
Related Programs
Major
•Multimedia Journalism (BA)  (p. 835)
Minor
•Multimedia Journalism Minor  (p. 836)
Combined
•Multimedia Journalism/Environmental Science and Sustainability
(BA/MS)  (p. 1292 )
Curriculum
For the BA, students will complete requirements for the Bachelor's
degree, and graduate level courses may be used as electives. For the MA,
students will take a total of ten classes (30 credit hours) to complete the
program: Four required core classes, including a capstone experience,
and an additional six elective classes, with no more than three offered by
a single department in the College of Arts & Sciences or another School
at Loyola.
Code Title Hours
BA RequirementsSchool of Communication Foundation CoursesCOMM 100 SOC Career Prep Seminar 1COMM 175Introduction to Communication3
COMM 200 Digital Communication and Society 3COMM 215Ethics & Communication3
Journalism Foundation CoursesCOMM 205Reporting Basics I: Writing and Interviewing 13
COMM 208 Reporting Basics II: Technology for Journalists 3COMM 145Video for Journalists3
Research MethodsCOMM 362Multimedia Journalism Research Methods3
ValuesCOMM 279Critical Issues in Journalism3
COMM 282 Media Law 3Intermediate CoursesSelect three of the following: 9COMM 207PhotojournalismCOMM 256 Broadcast Newswriting 1COMM 259News EditingCOMM 260 Environmental Journalism 1COMM 262Feature & Opinion Writing 1COMM 263 Editorial Design I: Newspaper & OnlineCOMM 265Sports BroadcastingCOMM 275 Web Design and UsabilityCOMM 311Health CommunicationCOMM 372 Special Topics: Multimedia JournalismAdvanced CoursesSelect two of the following: 6COMM 315Advanced Reporting Topics 1,2

--- Page 1268 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1299
COMM 327 Mastering Video Reporting and StorytellingCOMM 328Editorial Design II: Magazine & InteractiveCOMM 332 Investigative & Public Affairs ReportingCOMM 339Video Documentary 2COMM 358 Newscasting and ProducingCOMM 373Digital Storytelling Abroad 2COMM 398 Directed StudyInternshipCOMM 392 Multimedia Journalism Internship 23International Affairs MA RequirementsCoreINTA 420Comparative Political Systems3
INTA 430 Theories of International Politics 3INTA 475Political Analysis I3
Capstone Experience 3Select one of the following:INTA 470 Fieldwork in PLSC-InternshipPLSC 499Directed ReadingsPLSC 605 Master's StudyElectives  (p. 1299 ) 318In addition to the four core classes, students will take an additional
six elective courses, with no more than three offered by a single
department in the College of Arts and Sciences or another School
at Loyola. The core INTA courses in Political Science do not count
toward this three-course total, and thus a student may take three
Political Science courses in addition to the three core (required)
courses.Total Hours76
1Writing Intensive  (p. 800)
2Satisﬁes  Engaged Learning  (p. 1417 ) requirement
3Two Graduate-level International Affairs courses must be taken
Senior Year. These courses can count as major electives or general
electives. These two courses double-count for International Affairs MA
requirements.
List of International Affairs MA Elective Courses
The participating programs that will contribute classes include: Global
Studies, History, Philosophy, Political Science, Psychology, Sociology,
and Theology, Criminal Justice & Criminology, as well as the Schools of
Communication, Education, Business, Law, Health Sciences and Public
Health, and Social Work.
Please note that the courses listed might not be offered every year and
new courses may be added to this list. Students should talk with the
Graduate Program Director if they want to take a course that is not on
the list of elective courses to see whether the course can serve as an
elective.
College of Arts and Sciences
Code Title Hours
Criminal Justice and Criminology DepartmentCJC 416International Criminal Justice3
Methods CoursesCJC 403Research Methods and Program Evaluation3
CJC 404 Applied Data Analysis and Interpretation 4History DepartmentHIST 441 Women's & Gender History: Europe 3HIST 459Environmental History3
HIST 464 Transnational Urban History 3Methods CoursesHIST 483 Oral History: Method and Practice 3Modern Languages and Literatures DepartmentLanguage Research Tool: Although there is no language requirement,
students interested in honing their foreign language skills will have
the option of taking a 400-level language course (i.e., a course
beyond 101, 102, 103, and 104), and having that course count as one
of the six elective courses. Current language possibilities offered at
Loyola include Chinese, French, German, Italian, and Spanish.MLL also offers graduate-level courses in Spanish as part of their
master’s degree in Spanish. These courses are as follows and would
be open only to interested students with advanced writing, speaking,
and reading skills in Spanish. These courses are as follows:SPAN 405 Critical Methods (pan-Hispanic world) 3SPAN 490Hispanic Culture & Civilization (Latin American
ﬁlm, with a focus on human rights)3
Philosophy DepartmentPHIL 459Philosophy of Law3
PHIL 463 Virtue Ethics (includes non-Western philosophy) 3PHIL TBDCritical Race Theory (originally taught as a “special
topics” course; is being turned into a permanent
course)PHIL 480 Social & Political Philosophy (focuses on global
development on a regular basis)3Methods CoursesPHIL 400 Philosophy Research Tools 3Political Science DepartmentPLSC 421 Democratic Political Systems 3PLSC 422Authoritarian Political Systems3
PLSC 431 Formulation US Foreign Policy 3PLSC 432Comparative Foreign Policy Analysis3
PLSC 433 International Organization 3PLSC 435International Political Economics3
PLSC 436 International Conflict 3Methods CoursesPLSC 401 Intro to Research Design & Method 3PLSC 476Political Analysis II3
Psychology DepartmentPSYC 460Social Psychological Theory3
PSYC 461 Attitude and Attitude Change 3PSYC 474Research in Group Dynamics3
PSYC 484 Prejudice and Intergroup Relations 3Methods CoursesPSYC 486 Methods of Program Evaluation 3Sociology DepartmentSOCL 418 Demography 3SOCL 423Social Movements3
SOCL 426 Sociology of Gender 3SOCL 441Sociology of Religion3
SOCL 447 Sociology of Culture 3

--- Page 1269 ---
1300  Multimedia Journalism/International Affairs (BA/MA)SOCL 461Race & Ethnicity3
Methods CoursesSOCL 410Logic of Sociological Inquiry3
SOCL 412 Qualitative Methods in Social Research 3SOCL 414Statistical Methods Analysis I3
SOCL 415 Statistical Methods of Analysis II 3Theology DepartmentTHEO 459 Contemporary Theology 1-12THEO 460Seminar in History of Theology1-12
THEO 464 Religion & Politics in Christian History 3THEO 470Foundations Crititical Issues Theological Ethics1-12
THEO 480 Seminar in Christian Ethics 1-12
School of Education (International Education)
Code Title Hours
ELPS 405 Introduction to Educational Policy Analysis 3ELPS 448International Higher Education3
ELPS 455 Comparative Education 3ELPS 540Seminar in the History of Education3
ELPS 550 Seminar on Globalization and Education 3ELPS 555Seminar Comparative Education3
School of Communication
Code Title Hours
COMM 401 Foundations of Global Strategic Communication 3COMM 402Organizational Leadership and Change
Management3
COMM 422 Global and Multicultural Audiences and
Stakeholders3
School of Social Work
Code Title Hours
SOWK 502 Power, Oppression, Privilege, and Social Justice 3SOWK 654Global Social Work: Reflective Practice for Justice
and Peace3
SOWK 730 Immigration Dynamics and U.S. Social Policy 3SOWK 731Social Work Practice with Refugees and
Immigrants3
SOWK 732 Migration, Social Justice, and Human Rights 3SOWK 733North American Migration Dynamics, Challenges &
Opportunity1-3
School of Law 
Code Title Hours
LAW 176 International Trade Law 11-3LAW 371International Business Trans 11-3
LAW 372 International Law and Practice 3LAW 388Global Access to Medicine: A Patent Perspective3
LAW 459 Intro to English Legal Profession 1LAW 568European Union Law 11-3
1Explanatory note about 1, 2, 3, and variable credit hour courses from
the School of Law: “For the law courses showing a range of hours (e.g.,
1-3 credit hours), students have the option to choose the number of
credits for enrollment within the range. For students opting for the
higher credits (i.e., enrollment in 3 credit hours rather than 1 credit hourwould require additional assignments and/or an examination). If the
MA students in these courses need to be enrolled in 3 credit hours,
the following notation can be included with the course listing:  ‘MA
students must choose the 3 credit option for enrollment in this course’. ”
Please note that courses to be included in this MA program will require
students choosing the 3-credit option.
School of Law - Classes Offered at the John Felice Rome Center
Code Title Hours
PLAW 101 Comparative and Ethical Lawyering for the Rule of
Law3PLAW 102History, Theory and Practice of Rule of Law for
Development3
PLAW 103 Theory and Practice of Assessments in Rule of
Law Advising2PLAW 104International Development Architecture3
PLAW 105 Sustainable Development Through International
Commerce and Investment2PLAW 106Design of Rule of Law Programs and Proposal
Preparation2
PLAW 107 Rule of Law in Conflict Prevention and
Peacebuilding2PLAW 108Legal Systems and Methods3
PLAW 250 Research and Writing on the Rule of Law 3PLAW 907Rule of Law Project Management, Monitoring &
Evaluation3
Parkinson School of Health Sciences and Public Health
Code Title Hours
MPBH 400 Determinants of Population Health 3MPBH 414Introduction to Global Health3
MPBH 417 Global Maternal and Child Health 3MPBH 422Population Health Planning & Management3
MPBH 424 Health Economics and Healthcare Financing 3MPBH 432Health Impact Assessment3
Quinlan School of Business
Code Title Hours
ECON 424 International Business Economics 3FINC 455International Financial Management3
HRER 422 Global HR Management 3HRER 502Global Employment Relations3
MARK 465 International Marketing 3MARK 461Research Methods in Marketing3
MGMT 446 International Business Ethics 3SCMG 486Global Logistics3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.

--- Page 1270 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1301
Course Title Hours
First Year
Fall
COMM 145 Video for Journalists 3COMM 175Introduction to Communication3 Hours6
SpringCOMM 200Digital Communication and Society3COMM 205Reporting Basics I: Writing and Interviewing3 Hours6
Second Year
FallCOMM 208Reporting Basics II: Technology for
Journalists3 Hours3
Spring
COMM 279 Critical Issues in Journalism 3Major Intermediate Course3 Hours6
Third Year
FallCOMM 100SOC Career Prep Seminar1
COMM 215 Ethics & Communication 3Major Intermediate Course3 Hours7
SpringCOMM 282Media Law3
COMM 362 Multimedia Journalism Research Methods 3Major Advanced Course3 Hours9
Fourth Year
FallCOMM 392Multimedia Journalism Internship3
Major Advanced Course 3Two (2) International Affairs Courses  16 Hours12
SpringMajor Intermediate Course3Two (2) International Affairs Courses  16 Hours9
Fifth Year
FallThree (3) International Affairs Courses  19 Hours9
SpringThree (3) International Affairs Courses  19 Hours9 Total Hours76
1Students are expected to take two graduate-level courses in each
semester of their senior year and a total of six graduate-level courses
in their ﬁfth year. There is no required course sequence, but we strongly
suggest that students ﬁrst take the required courses ( PLSC 420Comparative Political Systems , PLSC 430 Theories of International
Politics , and PLSC 475 Political Analysis I ) whenever they are offered
before taking elective courses.
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet

--- Page 1271 ---
1302  Multimedia Journalism/International Affairs (BA/MA)
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate recordas having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
Students will graduate from our program having achieved:
•a foundation for understanding and critiquing research related to
International Affairs, including methods training that leverages both
qualitative and quantitative data [International Affairs]
•knowledge of the principal theories of comparative politics and
international relations, as well as the key areas of research in these
two subﬁelds [International Affairs]
•an interdisciplinary understanding and appreciation of International
Affairs through coursework available within eight different
departments in the College of Arts and Sciences and four additional
Schools at Loyola [International Affairs]
•enhanced writing and critical thinking skills and dispositions through
class-based projects and a capstone experience [International Affairs]

--- Page 1272 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1303
•strengthened methods, research, or writing skills tailored to students
interests with advanced methods courses, language training, or the
writing of a master’s thesis. [International Affairs]
•At Loyola University Chicago, we’re committed to
ensuring journalism survives and thrives in the future. We
teach students the skills every journalist must master,
including: Researching; Interviewing; Reporting; Writing; and A
commitment to ethics and social justice [Multimedia Journalism]
•We know technology has changed the way the public consumes
journalism. So we also teach our students the other skills storytellers
must excel at, including: Shooting and editing photos and
video; Recording and editing audio; Designing web sites and other
types of content; Promoting content and understanding metrics;
and A willingness to explore emerging media [Multimedia Journalism]
Philosophy (BA/MA)
The BA/MA in Philosophy program allows students to earn both
bachelor's and master’s degrees in philosophy in ﬁve years. This
accelerated degree program is a cost-effective option for undergraduate
majors wishing to pursue graduate education in philosophy. It prepares
students to apply for doctoral programs and gives them a chance to work
with faculty they already know at the graduate level. A student enrolled in
this program is an undergraduate for four years and a graduate student
for one year. Philosophy majors must apply to the BA/MA program in
their junior year. They will then have a modiﬁed program of study in their
senior year, taking courses at both the graduate and undergraduate level
that count toward their BA and MA, before completing a ﬁfth year of
graduate study.
Program Highlights
•Cost-effective option for undergraduate majors interested in pursuing
graduate education in philosophy.
•Takes half the time to complete than a traditional MA at a new
institution
•Provides excellent preparation for applying to PhD programs and
pursuing specialized research at the doctoral level
•Offers continuity of education, allowing students to continue working
with faculty they already know
Related Programs
Major
•Philosophy (BA)  (p. 605)
Minor
•Ethics and Moral Philosophy Minor  (p. 603)
•Philosophy Minor  (p. 609)
Combined
•Philosophy/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1306 )
CURRICULUM
In years 1-4 students complete the BA in Philosophy, taking four graduate
courses that “double dip” towards both the BA and MA. In year 5 students
take  six graduate courses to complete the MA in Philosophy and defend
the MA thesis or paper. The six graduate courses – plus the four graduate
"double dipped" courses taken towards the MA as an undergraduate  –
complete the 10 courses required for the MA.Code Title Hours
BA in Philosophy  1Ethics  2Select one of the following: 3PHIL 181EthicsPHIL 182 Social and Political PhilosophyPHIL 283Business EthicsPHIL 284 Health Care EthicsPHIL 285Contemporary Ethical IssuesPHIL 286 Ethics and EducationPHIL 287Environmental EthicsPHIL 288 Culture and CivilizationPHIL 289Philosophy and Gender300-level equivalent courseEpistemology  2Select one of the following: 3PHIL 130Philosophy & PersonsPHIL 271 Philosophy of ReligionPHIL 272MetaphysicsPHIL 273 Philosophy of SciencePHIL 275Theory of KnowledgePHIL 276 Philosophy of MindPHIL 279Judgment and Decision-Making300-level equivalent courseLogicPHIL 274 Logic 3
or PHIL 301 Symbolic LogicAncient PhilosophyPHIL 304 History of Ancient Philosophy 3Modern PhilosophyPHIL 309 Classical Modern Philosophy 3Philosophy Electives  3Elective Course (100-, 200-, or 300-level) 3300-level Elective Course3
400-level Elective Course (double counts for the MA) 3400-level Elective Course (double counts for the MA)3
400-level Elective Course (double counts for the MA) 3400-level Elective Course (double counts for the MA)3
MA in Philosophy  4Ancient PhilosophySelect one of the following: 3PHIL 401PlatoPHIL 402 AristotlePHIL 403Ancient PhilosophyMedieval PhilosophySelect one of the following:3
PHIL 405 AugustinePHIL 406AquinasPHIL 407 Medieval PhilosophyPHIL 408Late Medieval PhilosophyModern PhilosophySelect one of the following:3

--- Page 1273 ---
1304  Philosophy (BA/MA)
PHIL 410 DescartesPHIL 411Classical RationalismPHIL 412 Classical EmpiricismPHIL 415KantPHIL 416 17th-18th Century PhilosophyContinental PhilosophySelect one of the following: 3PHIL 422NietzschePHIL 430 HusserlPHIL 432HeideggerPHIL 433 Phenomenology/ExistentialismPHIL 434Hermeneutics & Critical TheoryPHIL 436 Contemporary French PhilosophyPHIL 437Contemporary German PhilosophyPHIL 438 Topics in Continental PhilosophyAnalytic PhilosophySelect one of the following: 3PHIL 442Anglo-American PhilosophyPHIL 443 Anglo-American EpistemologyPHIL 444Studies in LogicPHIL 447 Issues in Cognitive ScienceFive 400-level Philosophy Elective Courses  515Total Hours63
1Three (3) of the eleven (11) courses required for the major must be at
the 300-level (four if 301 is taken) and four (4) must be taken at the
400-level.
2BA/MA students can use relevant 400-level courses to satisfy the
ethics and epistemology requirements toward the BA. Whether the
course counts as relevant is determined in consultation with the
Graduate Program Director, Undergraduate Program Director, and
course instructor.
3BA/MA students are not required to take the capstone seminar (PHIL
395, PHIL 396, PHIL 397, PHIL 398, or PHIL 399). If students replace
their BA capstone seminar with a graduate seminar, they take an
additional 3 400-level electives, “double dipping” these (for a total of
four double-dipped courses) towards their BA and MA. If students take
the BA capstone seminar, then they take four “double-dipped” 400-level
courses as electives.
4Other Philosophy courses may be used for the MA requirements.
Students should consult with the Graduate Program Director if a
course of interest is not shown in the curriculum grid. For a full list
of Philosophy graduate-level courses, click here  (p. 1628 ). Speciﬁc
courses may not be offered every semester and course offerings are
subject to change.
5Comprised of one 400-level elective course and the four graduate
"double-dipped" courses taken towards the MA as an undergraduate i.e.
students must take one additional 400-level course.
MA Examination
Toward the end of year ﬁve, students pursuing the BA/MA in Philosophy
must pass an oral examination before a committee of at least three
faculty members on a substantial research paper or thesis the student
has written. The focus of the examination is on the argument and
analysis of the paper, as well as on the background thought that the
argument and analysis presuppose.Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.

--- Page 1274 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1305
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduatecredit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of the BA/MA in Philosophy program students will be
able to/will have:
•Analyze major texts in the history of philosophy. [BA]
•Articulate major philosophical problems and their solutions, such as
questions concerning truth and knowledge, reality, moral values, and
justice. [BA]
•Distinguish and explain different philosophical methodologies or
approaches. [BA]
•Explain and apply ethical frameworks. [BA]
•Evaluate or construct arguments. [BA]
•Acquired advanced knowledge and be able to: Demonstrate
knowledge of the history of philosophy; Demonstrate knowledge of
perennial and contemporary issues in philosophy; and Demonstrate
expertise in a particular area of philosophy [MA]
•Engaged in discursive and critical thinking and be able to: Identify
hidden presuppositions of everyday beliefs; Articulate and evaluate

--- Page 1275 ---
1306  Philosophy/International Affairs (BA/MA)
philosophical arguments; Consider alternative kinds of philosophical
argumentation; and Apply philosophical categories, methods and
insights to other areas of human interest, experience, or cognitive
inquiry [MA]
•Produced and disseminated scholarship and be able to frame,
research, complete and defend the MA paper [MA]
•Developed the skills to appreciate and participate in citizenship in the
academic community, in the larger community, and in the world and
be able to: Work with others for the sake of common purposes; Foster
Jesuit ideals, including truth and justice; and Enhance the ple asures
of work in common [MA]
Philosophy/International Affairs (BA/
MA)
The growing interconnectedness of the world’s almost 200 countries,
termed globalization, and the rising impacts of foreign affairs on our
daily lives increasingly require individuals with advanced knowledge
of International Affairs. The Accelerated BA/MA in Philosophy and
International Affairs allows students to explore global problems and
interactions from an interdisciplinary perspective that makes use of
eight Arts and Sciences academic departments and four additional
colleges. Students will have the flexibility to tailor their program to ﬁt
their individual interests. Students can fulﬁll a capstone experience by
participating in an internship, taking a study abroad class, writing a paper
for publication, or writing a master’s thesis.
Loyola University Chicago and the City of Chicago together serve as the
ideal location for an MA in International Affairs: Loyola embodies a long
commitment to interdisciplinary education; and Chicago is consistently
ranked as one of the top ten global cities in the world. The program offers
a unique urban setting for students interested in the advanced study of
International Affairs.
The majority of full-time students are expected to ﬁnish the program
in 5 years, as opposed to the six years if both programs are pursued
separately. Undergraduate students from participating programs at
Loyola will be able to pursue an accelerated BA/MA in Philosophy and
International Affairs.
Students will also be able to take graduate courses in the School of
Communication, the School of Education (International Education), the
School of Law, Parkinson School of Health Sciences and Public Health,
Quinlan School of Business, and the School of Social Work.
Related Programs
Major
•Philosophy (BA)  (p. 605)
Minor
•Philosophy Minor  (p. 609)
Combined
•Philosophy (BA/MA)  (p. 1303 )
CURRICULUM
For the BA, students will complete requirements for the Bachelor's
degree, and graduate level courses may be used as electives.  For the MA,
students will take a total of ten classes (30 credit hours) to complete the
program: Four required core classes, including a capstone experience,and an additional six elective classes, with no more than three offered by
a single department in the College of Arts & Sciences or another School
at Loyola.
Code Title Hours
Required BA CoursesEthicsSelect one of the following: 3PHIL 181EthicsPHIL 182 Social and Political PhilosophyPHIL 283Business EthicsPHIL 284 Health Care EthicsPHIL 285Contemporary Ethical IssuesPHIL 286 Ethics and EducationPHIL 287Environmental EthicsPHIL 288 Culture and CivilizationPHIL 289Philosophy and Gender300-level equivalentEpistemologySelect one of the following: 3PHIL 130Philosophy & PersonsPHIL 271 Philosophy of ReligionPHIL 272MetaphysicsPHIL 273 Philosophy of SciencePHIL 275Theory of KnowledgePHIL 276 Philosophy of MindPHIL 277AestheticsPHIL 279 Judgment and Decision-Making300-level equivalentFormal LogicPHIL 274Logic3or PHIL 301Symbolic Logic
Ancient PhilosophyPHIL 304History of Ancient Philosophy3
Classical Modern PhilosophyPHIL 309Classical Modern Philosophy3
Philosophy Capstone SeminarSelect one philosophy capstone seminar in a historical period or in a
contemporary issue:  13
PHIL 395 Seminar in Ancient PhilosophyPHIL 396Seminar in Medieval PhilosophyPHIL 397 Capstone Seminar in Classical Modern PhilosophyPHIL 398Capstone Seminar in Contemporary PhilosophyPHIL 399 Capstone Seminar on a Topic in PhilosophyElectives  2Five other elective philosophy courses, of which at least four must be
at the 300-level15Required MA CoursesCOREINTA 420Comparative Political Systems3
INTA 430 Theories of International Politics 3INTA 475Political Analysis I3
Capstone Experience 3

--- Page 1276 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1307Select one of the following:INTA 470 Fieldwork in PLSC-InternshipPLSC 499Directed ReadingsPLSC 605 Master's StudyElectives  (p. 1307 ) 218In addition to the four core classes, students will take an additional
six elective courses, with no more than three offered by a single
department in the College of Arts and Sciences or another School
at Loyola. The core INTA courses in Political Science do not count
toward this three-course total, and thus a student may take three
Political Science courses in addition to the three core (required)
courses.Total Hours57
1The department offers one capstone in each major specialization area
each year.
2Two Graduate-level International Affairs courses must be taken
Senior Year. These courses can count as major electives or general
electives. These two courses double-count for International Affairs MA
requirements.
The participating programs that will contribute classes include: Global
Studies, History, Philosophy, Political Science, Psychology, Sociology,
and Theology, Criminal Justice & Criminology, as well as the Schools of
Communication, Education, Business, Law, Health Sciences and Public
Health, and Social Work.
List of MA Elective Courses
Please note that the courses listed might not be offered every year and
new courses may be added to this list. Students should talk with the
Graduate Program Director if they want to take a course that is not on
the list of elective courses to see whether the course can serve as an
elective.
College of Arts and Sciences
Code Title Hours
Criminal Justice and Criminology DepartmentCJC 416International Criminal Justice3
Methods CoursesCJC 403Research Methods and Program Evaluation3
CJC 404 Applied Data Analysis and Interpretation 4History DepartmentHIST 441 Women's & Gender History: Europe 3HIST 459Environmental History3
HIST 464 Transnational Urban History 3Methods CoursesHIST 483 Oral History: Method and Practice 3Modern Languages and Literatures DepartmentLanguage Research Tool: Although there is no language requirement,
students interested in honing their foreign language skills will have
the option of taking a 400-level language course (i.e., a course
beyond 101, 102, 103, and 104), and having that course count as one
of the six elective courses. Current language possibilities offered at
Loyola include Chinese, French, German, Italian, and Spanish.MLL also offers graduate-level courses in Spanish as part of their
master’s degree in Spanish. These courses are as follows and would
be open only to interested students with advanced writing, speaking,
and reading skills in Spanish. These courses are as follows:SPAN 405 Critical Methods (pan-Hispanic world) 3SPAN 490Hispanic Culture & Civilization (Latin American
ﬁlm, with a focus on human rights)3
Philosophy DepartmentPHIL 459Philosophy of Law3
PHIL 463 Virtue Ethics (includes non-Western philosophy) 3PHIL TBDCritical Race Theory (originally taught as a “special
topics” course; is being turned into a permanent
course)PHIL 480 Social & Political Philosophy (focuses on global
development on a regular basis)3Methods CoursesPHIL 400 Philosophy Research Tools 3Political Science DepartmentPLSC 421 Democratic Political Systems 3PLSC 422Authoritarian Political Systems3
PLSC 431 Formulation US Foreign Policy 3PLSC 432Comparative Foreign Policy Analysis3
PLSC 433 International Organization 3PLSC 435International Political Economics3
PLSC 436 International Conflict 3Methods CoursesPLSC 401 Intro to Research Design & Method 3PLSC 476Political Analysis II3
Psychology DepartmentPSYC 460Social Psychological Theory3
PSYC 461 Attitude and Attitude Change 3PSYC 474Research in Group Dynamics3
PSYC 484 Prejudice and Intergroup Relations 3Methods CoursesPSYC 486 Methods of Program Evaluation 3Sociology DepartmentSOCL 418 Demography 3SOCL 423Social Movements3
SOCL 426 Sociology of Gender 3SOCL 441Sociology of Religion3
SOCL 447 Sociology of Culture 3SOCL 461Race & Ethnicity3
Methods CoursesSOCL 410Logic of Sociological Inquiry3
SOCL 412 Qualitative Methods in Social Research 3SOCL 414Statistical Methods Analysis I3
SOCL 415 Statistical Methods of Analysis II 3Theology DepartmentTHEO 459 Contemporary Theology 1-12THEO 460Seminar in History of Theology1-12
THEO 464 Religion & Politics in Christian History 3THEO 470Foundations Crititical Issues Theological Ethics1-12
THEO 480 Seminar in Christian Ethics 1-12

--- Page 1277 ---
1308  Philosophy/International Affairs (BA/MA)
School of Education (International Education)
Code Title Hours
ELPS 405 Introduction to Educational Policy Analysis 3ELPS 448International Higher Education3
ELPS 455 Comparative Education 3ELPS 540Seminar in the History of Education3
ELPS 550 Seminar on Globalization and Education 3ELPS 555Seminar Comparative Education3
 School of Communication
Code Title Hours
COMM 401 Foundations of Global Strategic Communication 3COMM 402Organizational Leadership and Change
Management3
COMM 422 Global and Multicultural Audiences and
Stakeholders3
School of Social Work
Code Title Hours
SOWK 502 Power, Oppression, Privilege, and Social Justice 3SOWK 654Global Social Work: Reflective Practice for Justice
and Peace3
SOWK 730 Immigration Dynamics and U.S. Social Policy 3SOWK 731Social Work Practice with Refugees and
Immigrants3
SOWK 732 Migration, Social Justice, and Human Rights 3SOWK 733North American Migration Dynamics, Challenges &
Opportunity1-3
School of Law 
Code Title Hours
LAW 176 International Trade Law 11-3LAW 371International Business Trans 11-3
LAW 372 International Law and Practice 3LAW 388Global Access to Medicine: A Patent Perspective3
LAW 459 Intro to English Legal Profession 1LAW 568European Union Law 11-3
1Explanatory note about 1, 2, 3, and variable credit hour courses from
the School of Law: “For the law courses showing a range of hours (e.g.,
1-3 credit hours), students have the option to choose the number of
credits for enrollment within the range. For students opting for the
higher credits (i.e., enrollment in 3 credit hours rather than 1 credit hour
would require additional assignments and/or an examination). If the
MA students in these courses need to be enrolled in 3 credit hours,
the following notation can be included with the course listing:  ‘MA
students must choose the 3 credit option for enrollment in this course’. ”
Please note that courses to be included in this MA program will require
students choosing the 3-credit option.
 School of Law - Classes Offered at the John Felice Rome Center
Code Title Hours
PLAW 101 Comparative and Ethical Lawyering for the Rule of
Law3PLAW 102History, Theory and Practice of Rule of Law for
Development3PLAW 103 Theory and Practice of Assessments in Rule of
Law Advising2PLAW 104International Development Architecture3
PLAW 105 Sustainable Development Through International
Commerce and Investment2PLAW 106Design of Rule of Law Programs and Proposal
Preparation2
PLAW 107 Rule of Law in Conflict Prevention and
Peacebuilding2PLAW 108Legal Systems and Methods3
PLAW 250 Research and Writing on the Rule of Law 3PLAW 907Rule of Law Project Management, Monitoring &
Evaluation3
Parkinson School of Health Sciences and Public Health 
Code Title Hours
MPBH 400 Determinants of Population Health 3MPBH 414Introduction to Global Health3
MPBH 417 Global Maternal & Child Health 3MPBH 422Population Health Planning & Management3
MPBH 424 Health Economics and Healthcare Financing 3MPBH 432Health Impact Assessment3
Quinlan School of Business 
Code Title Hours
ECON 424 International Business Economics 3FINC 455International Financial Management3
HRER 422 Global HR Management 3HRER 502Global Employment Relations3
MARK 465 International Marketing 3MARK 461Research Methods in Marketing3
MGMT 446 International Business Ethics 3SCMG 486Global Logistics3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
In order to provide optimal flexibility in the program, there is no
required course sequence. However, students are expected to take
two graduate-level  course s in each semester of their senior year and
a total of six graduate-level  course s in their ﬁfth year. There is no
required  course  sequence , but we strongly suggest that students ﬁrst
take the required  course s (PLSC 420, PLSC 430, and PLSC 475) whenever
they are offered before taking elective  course s.
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon

--- Page 1278 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1309
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our mostcapable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level

--- Page 1279 ---
1310  Physics/Secondary Education (BS/MEd)
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
Students will graduate from our program having achieved/with the ability
to:
•a foundation for understanding and critiquing research related to
International Affairs, including methods training that leverages both
qualitative and quantitative data [International Affairs]
•knowledge of the principal theories of comparative politics and
international relations, as well as the key areas of research in these
two subﬁelds [International Affairs]
•an interdisciplinary understanding and appreciation of International
Affairs through coursework available within eight different
departments in the College of Arts and Sciences and four additional
Schools at Loyola [International Affairs]
•enhanced writing and critical thinking skills and dispositions through
class-based projects and a capstone experience [International Affairs]
•strengthened methods, research, or writing skills tailored to students
interests with advanced methods courses, language training, or the
writing of a master’s thesis. [International Affairs]
•Analyze major texts in the history of philosophy. [Philosophy]
•Articulate major philosophical problems and their solutions, such as
questions concerning truth and knowledge, reality, moral values, and
justice. [Philosophy]
•Distinguish and explain different philosophical methodologies or
approaches. [Philosophy]
•Explain and apply ethical frameworks. [Philosophy]
•Evaluate or construct arguments. [Philosophy]
Physics/Secondary Education (BS/
MEd)
NOTE:  This program is not presently accepting applications.Become a science teacher: Earn an undergraduate degree in physics and
a master's degree in secondary education
In Loyola's accelerated master's degree program for science teachers,
you'll earn your undergraduate degree in physics and a graduate degree
in teaching grades 9-12, plus an Illinois teaching license in s econdary
education. You'll qualify for a higher salary with a graduate degree, and
be able to earn both degrees more quickly than if you enrolled in the
two programs separately. Plus, there is a high need for science teachers
across Illinois.
Related Programs
Major
•Physics (BS)  (p. 617)
•Physics with Computer Science (BS)  (p. 621)
Minor
•Physics Minor  (p. 620)
Curriculum
Students are enrolled in the  College of Arts and Science  (https://
www.luc.edu/cas/ ) for the ﬁrst four years, working to complete the
requirements for a  Bachelor of science degree in physics  (p. 617) as
well as prerequisites for Loyola’s Graduate Teacher Preparation program.
Students may begin the required sequence of classes for the MEd
starting in their junior or senior year. They will also formally apply to the
School of Education prior to their ﬁfth year. The remainder of required
education courses, including student teaching, are completed in the ﬁfth
year.
Please note that the MEd includes at least one summer
session.  Students work under the guidance of the Education Senior
Academic Advisor to outline a speciﬁc course of study to fulﬁll all
requirements. The timing of the education courses in the fourth and ﬁfth
years can vary depending on each student’s particular needs. The number
of courses taken each term can vary depending on the plan developed.
Code Title Hours
Physics BS CoursesRequired CoursesPhysics IPHYS 121 
& PHYS 111LCollege Physics I with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion 
and College Physics Laboratory I4
Physics IIPHYS 122 
& PHYS 112LCollege Physics II with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion 
and College Physics Lab II4
Required Physics CoursesPHYS 126FFreshman Projects1
PHYS 130 Introduction to Computational Physics 3PHYS 235Modern Physics3
PHYS 235L Modern Physics Laboratory 1PHYS 301Mathematical Methods in Physics3
PHYS 303 Electronics I 3PHYS 303LElectronics Laboratory1
PHYS 310 Optics 3PHYS 310LOptics Lab1

--- Page 1280 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1311
PHYS 314 Theoretical Mechanics I 3PHYS 328Thermal Physical & Statistical Mechanics3
PHYS 338 Advanced Physics Laboratory 2PHYS 351Electricity and Magnetism I3
PHYS 361 Quantum Mechanics I 3Ancillary MathMATH 161 Calculus I 4MATH 162Calculus II4
MATH 263 Multivariable Calculus 4MATH 264Ordinary Differential Equations3
Secondary Education MEd RequirementsTLSC 401Language, Learning & Development Theories in
Practice2
TLSC 403 Teaching for Social Justice and Equity 3TLSC 404Constructive Learning Environments for Diverse
Students3
TLSC 406 Educational Policy for Diverse Students 3TLSC 407Individualized Assessment and Instruction for
Diverse Students3
TLSC 443 Adolescent Literacy Instruction 3TLSC 455Secondary Content Mthds: Currclm, Instrctn &
Assmt Secondary Content Areas6
TLSC 460 Developing Rigorous and Relevant Instruction and
Assessment2TLSC 461Designing and Implementing Rigorous and
Relevant Instruction3
TLSC 470A Student Teaching for Change 4TLSC 470BStudent Teaching for Change4TLSC 480Teaching for Change Field Seminar1Total Hours93
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
First Year
Fall
PHYS 121 College Physics I with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3PHYS 111LCollege Physics Laboratory I1
MATH 161 Calculus I 4UCWR 110Writing Responsibly3Core3 Hours14
Spring
PHYS 122 College Physics II with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3PHYS 112LCollege Physics Lab II1
PHYS 126F Freshman Projects 1MATH 162Calculus II4
PHYS 130 Introduction to Computational Physics 3Core3 Hours15
Second Year
FallPHYS 235Modern Physics3
PHYS 235L Modern Physics Laboratory 1MATH 263Multivariable Calculus4
MATH 264 Ordinary Differential Equations 13Core3Core3 Hours17
Spring
PHYS 301 Mathematical Methods in Physics 3PHYS 314Theoretical Mechanics I3
Core 3Core3Core3 Hours15
Third Year
Fall
PHYS 351 Electricity and Magnetism I 3PHYS 328Thermal Physical & Statistical Mechanics3
Core 3Core3Core3 Hours15
Spring
PHYS 361 Quantum Mechanics I 3PHYS 310Optics3
PHYS 310L Optics Lab 1TLSC 401Language, Learning & Development
Theories in Practice 12
TLSC 403 Teaching for Social Justice and Equity 13TLSC 404Constructive Learning Environments for
Diverse Students 13 Hours15
Fourth Year
FallPHYS 303Electronics I 23
PHYS 303L Electronics Laboratory 21Core3
TLSC 406 Educational Policy for Diverse Students 3TLSC 407Individualized Assessment and Instruction
for Diverse Students3TLSC 480Teaching for Change Field Seminar1 Hours14
Spring
PHYS 338 Advanced Physics Laboratory 2Core3
Core 3General Elective3

--- Page 1281 ---
1312  Physics/Secondary Education (BS/MEd)General Elective3 Hours14
Fifth Year
Fall
TLSC 443 Adolescent Literacy Instruction 3TLSC 455Secondary Content Mthds: Currclm,
Instrctn & Assmt Secondary Content Areas6 Hours9
SpringTLSC 460Developing Rigorous and Relevant
Instruction and Assessment2
TLSC 461 Designing and Implementing Rigorous and
Relevant Instruction3TLSC 470AStudent Teaching for Change4 Hours9
SummerTLSC 470BStudent Teaching for Change4 Hours4 Total Hours141
1If this TLSC course is not taken in this term, it can be taken in Year 5
Summer term.
Program Overview
5-Year Dual-Degree B.S./M.Ed. ProgramYears 1-2Years 3-4Year 5 Summer 1FallSpringSummer 2
Content B.A./
B.S. major
requirements
in CASContent B.A./
B.S. major
requirements
in CASM.Ed. coursework
begins late
May following
graduation
from bachelor's
programEducation
courseworkStudent
TeachingStudent
Teaching ends
in JuneContact Dr.
Lara Smetana
for School
of Education
advisingContact Dr.
Lara Smetana
for School
of Education
advising(Number of
Summer I courses
depends on
what courses
were taken as an
undergraduate)School visites
1 day per week
+ on-campus
courses 3 late
afternoons
and evenings
per weekPart time
student
teaching
starting in
January, full
time starting
in MarchJoin a Science
Education
Professional
Learning
Community
(PLC) in
School of
Education
as schedule
allowsEducation
coursework
as schedule
allows
(Sequences
1-3)Optional -
complete
coursewoek for
endorsements
(e.g. bilingual,
other content
areas)Formally
apply to MEd
program
between
August and
March of year
4Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.

--- Page 1282 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1313
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduatecredit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•You'll have accrued the equivalent of one year of full-time teaching
experience through all the hands-on, experiential learning
opportunities in Chicago's classrooms and community organizations,
so you will be ready to be at the head of your own classroom. With
the foundational knowledge from your Loyola education, you will
utilize theories, data, and research practices when making decisions
in your classroom and for your students and when assessing the
effectiveness of teaching on learning.
Political Science (BA/MA)
The dual BA/MA program allows our best undergraduate Political Science
majors to pursue the BA and MA in a shorter period of time than if both
programs were pursued separately.  Students typically complete the dual
BA/MA program in 5 years, as opposed to the 6 years if both programs
were pursued separately.

--- Page 1283 ---
1314  Political Science (BA/MA)
Related Programs
Major
•Political Science (BA)  (p. 638)
Minor
•Political Science Minor  (p. 640)
Combined
•Political Science/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1318 )
Curriculum
Students admitted to the Political Science BA/MA Accelerated
Bachelor's/Master's program may apply up to 12 semester hours of credit
earned toward the 120 semester hours needed for the BA toward the
30-hour requirement for the MA degree. The 12 hours must be 400- or
500-level credit. The 12 hours of credit applied toward the MA degree are
in addition to the 33 semester hours of credit normally required for the
undergraduate political science major. The application of the 12 hours
of credit toward the 30-hour MA requirement means that students will
only be required to take 18 additional semester hours of coursework
beyond the 120 hours required for the BA degree. As a result, students
will be able to complete the MA degree in less time than normal. The
four graduate courses that students take in their senior year will count
towards their major in PLSC.
Course Requirements
Code Title Hours
Political Science BA RequirementsSelect three of the following:9
PLSC 100 Political TheoryPLSC 101American PoliticsPLSC 102 International Relations in an Age of GlobalizationPLSC 103Comparative PoliticsBA Subﬁeld RequirementsOne (1) course in American Politics Subﬁeld  (p. 1315 )3
One (1) course in Political Theory Subﬁeld  (p. 1315 ) 3One (1) course in Comparative Politics Subﬁeld  (p. 1315 )3
One (1) course in International Relations Subﬁeld  (p. 1315 ) 3Four (4) PLSC Electives12
Political Science MA RequirementsPolitical Science MethodsPLSC 401 Intro to Research Design & Method 3PLSC 475Political Analysis I3
PLSC 476 Political Analysis II 3Seven Electives from Two MA Subﬁelds  221
The MA subﬁelds that may be chosen from are International
Relations, Comparative Politics, American Politics, and Political
Theory.International Relations CoursesPLSC 430 Theories of International PoliticsPLSC 431Formulation US Foreign PolicyPLSC 432 Comparative Foreign Policy AnalysisPLSC 433International OrganizationPLSC 435 International Political EconomicsPLSC 436International ConflictPLSC 437 Selected Problems International LawPLSC 439Selected Problems in International PoliticsPLSC 531 Seminar: International PoliticsComparative Politics CoursesPLSC 420 Comparative Political SystemsPLSC 421Democratic Political SystemsPLSC 422 Authoritarian Political SystemsPLSC 423Soviet & Post-Soviet PoliticsPLSC 424 Politics of Developing AreasPLSC 425Sub-Saharan AfricaPLSC 426 Latin American PoliticsPLSC 427Politics of the Middle EastPLSC 428 Political ViolencePLSC 429Comparative Politics Selected ProblemsPLSC 520 Seminar: Comparative PoliticsPLSC 521Seminar Western European PoliticsPLSC 532 Soviet/Post-Soviet Foreign PolicyAmerican Politics CoursesPLSC 404 Selected Problems in American PoliticsPLSC 405American Executive BranchPLSC 406 American Legislative BranchPLSC 407Public Policy-Making & ImplementationPLSC 410 Urban PoliticsPLSC 411American Political Parties/Electoral ProcessPLSC 412 Constitutional PoliticsPLSC 417The American Legal SystemPLSC 418 Political Psychology & SocializationPLSC 419Managing Urban GovernmentPolitical Theory CoursesPLSC 440Ancient Political ThoughtPLSC 442 Modern Political ThoughtPLSC 444Great AuthorsPLSC 446 Political EthicsPLSC 447American Political Thought to Civil WarPLSC 449 19th Century Political ThoughtPLSC 543LiberalismPLSC 546Political Philosophy Selected ProblemsTotal Hours63
1If students take PLSC 100, 101, or 102 as the three required courses for
the major, they can  also take PLSC 103 and have it count as an elective
in the major. Students in the BA/MA Political Science and Students in
the BA/MA in  International Affairs can count two of the graduate level
courses (at the 400 or 500 level)  that they take in their senior year as
electives in the PLSC major, alongside the other two courses at the 200
or 300 level.
2Seven elective courses should be chosen from at least two subfields:
International Relations, Comparative Politics, American Politics, or Political
Theory. With approval of the Graduate Program Director, up to six (6) hours
may be at the graduate level in related disciplines.
BA Curricular Notes
•The Political Science internship program (PLSC 370), a 3- or 6-credit
hour course, counts as one of the four Political Science electives.

--- Page 1284 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1315
Only 3 credits of PLSC 370 may count toward the PLSC major, the
other three will be counted as general electives. An exception is made
for students who complete an internship in Chicago as well as an
internship via the Washington, DC program. In that case, 3 credit
hours from each internship may be applied to the major.
•The following courses do not fulﬁll subﬁeld requirements but do
count as electives toward the PLSC major:   PLSC 396 Directed
Readings  and  PLSC 216 Political Numbers  (PLSC 216 also fulﬁlls the
core quantitative reasoning requirement for PLSC majors only.) 
•The following courses neither fulﬁll subﬁeld requirements nor count
as electives toward the PLSC major:  PLSC 395 Political Science
Honors Seminar .  This is an extra course that students take beyond
the major requirements in order to graduate with Honors in Political
Science. 
BA Subﬁeld Courses
American Politics
Code Title Hours
PLSC 202 Mock Trial 13PLSC 203Moot Court 13
PLSC 208 Representation in the United States 3PLSC 215Politics of Marginalized Groups3
PLSC 218 African-American Politics 3PLSC 236Political Communication3
PLSC 238 Political Advocacy 3PLSC 251Women in American Politics3
PLSC 300A Contemporary Political Issues: American Politics 3PLSC 318Politics & the Economy3
PLSC 319 Women, Law & Public Policy 3PLSC 320Constitutional Law-Due Process3
PLSC 321 Constitutional Law-Powers of Government 3PLSC 322Constitutional Law-Rights and Liberties3
PLSC 323 Children, Law & Public Policy 3PLSC 324Civil-Military Relations3
PLSC 326 American National Security 3PLSC 327Political Psychology3
PLSC 328 Political Behavior 3PLSC 329Interest Group Politics3
PLSC 332 Politics of American Bureaucracies 3PLSC 334Urban Policies and Problems3
PLSC 335 Urban Semester Seminar 3PLSC 357Hollywood and Law3
PLSC 372 Crime, Race & Violence 3PLSC 376Political Behavior and Public Opinion3
PLSC 377 American Public Policies 3PLSC 378Intro to Political Economy3
PLSC 379 The Legislative Process 3PLSC 380Public Policy Analysis3
PLSC 381 The American Presidency 3PLSC 384The Judicial Process3
PLSC 385 Introduction to Law 3PLSC 386Campaigns and Elections3
PLSC 387 Politics and the Press 3PLSC 389State Politics3PLSC 390 Urban Politics 3PLSC 391Chicago Politics3
PLSC 392 Environmental Politics 3PLSC 393Black Politics3
PLSC 398 Washington DC Internship Seminar 23
1This course is Engaged Learning.
2This course is Writing Intensive.
Political Theory
Code Title Hours
PLSC 300B Contemporary Political Issues: Political Theory 3PLSC 301Political Justice3
PLSC 302 American Political Thought 3PLSC 303Conservatism3
PLSC 304 Ancient Political Thought 3PLSC 306Modern Political Thought3
PLSC 307 Democratic Theory 3PLSC 308Contemporary Political Thought3
PLSC 309 Socialism 3PLSC 310BCatholic Political Thought3
PLSC 312 Feminist Theory 3PLSC 313Resistance and Obligation3
PLSC 314 Liberalism 3PLSC 330Global Justice3
PLSC 331 Islamic Political Thought 3PLSC 339Political Ideologies3
PLSC 373 Politics and Literature 3PLSC 388The Morality and Legality of War3
Comparative Politics
Code Title Hours
PLSC 232 Politics of the United Kingdom 3PLSC 300CContemporary Political Issues: Comparative
Politics3
PLSC 336 Politics in Contemporary China 3PLSC 337Terrorism3
PLSC 339 Political Ideologies 3PLSC 342African Politics3
PLSC 343 Latin American Politics 3PLSC 344Contemporary Issues in Latin America3
PLSC 345 South & Southeast Asian Politics 3PLSC 346East Asian Politics3
PLSC 347 The European Union 3PLSC 348Soviet & Post-Soviet Politics3
PLSC 349 Eastern European Politics 3PLSC 352Canadian Politics3
PLSC 355C Women and Politics: A Cross-National Perspective 3PLSC 359Revolutions3
PLSC 360 Western European Politics 3PLSC 362Politics Developing Societies3
PLSC 365 Italian Politics & Government 3PLSC 366Dictatorship3

--- Page 1285 ---
1316  Political Science (BA/MA)
PLSC 368 Politics of the Middle East 3PLSC 374Democracy3
GLST 303 Technological Change and Society 3
International Relations
Code Title Hours
PLSC 204 Conflict Management 3PLSC 213International Human Rights3
PLSC 252 Capitalism and Its Discontents 3PLSC 300DContemporary Political issues in International
Relations3
PLSC 316 Politics of Genocide 3PLSC 317Politics of International Health3
PLSC 325 American Foreign Policy 3PLSC 333Crossing Borders: The Politics of Immigration3
PLSC 340 International Relations of Africa 3PLSC 350Politics of International Economic Relations3
PLSC 351 Latin American International System 3PLSC 353International Law3
PLSC 354 Global Environmental Politics 3PLSC 356Intervent in World Politics3
PLSC 358 War, Peace and Politics 3PLSC 358DThe Scientiﬁc Study of War3
PLSC 363 International Politics 3PLSC 364UN & International Organization3
PLSC 367 Model United Nations 13PLSC 369Politics of Energy3
GLST 302 States and Firms 3GLST 305Globalization and Environmental Sustainability3
1This course is Engaged Learning.
Capstone Requirement:  Thesis, Comprehensive Exams,
or Internship
Thesis
Students may satisfy six hours (2 courses) by writing a thesis. Students
who choose this option will take  PLSC 596 Thesis Research  for two
semesters (a total of 6 credit hours, which count as electives) and
take  PLSC 595 Thesis Supervision  until they are done with the thesis.
Code Title Hours
Take for two semesters (may satisfy 6 elective hours)PLSC 596Thesis ResearchTake until done with thesisPLSC 595Thesis Supervision  Comprehensive Exam
MA students can choose to take a written comprehensive examination.
The student will select ﬁve courses from the substantive courses they
have taken on which they will be tested. Prior to taking the exam students
must ﬁnish all incompletes. Students may be currently registered for
courses necessary for the degree in the semester in which they take
the exam. If the student has fulﬁlled all degree requirements except for
the comprehensive exams, they should register for  PLSC 605 Master's
Study  in the semesters leading up to and including the exam. Students
taking comprehensive examinations at the master’s degree level areexpected to answer theoretical and substantive questions from a range
of ﬁve courses they have taken in their coursework. Once a student
knows that s/he will take the exam in a particular semester, we highly
recommend that they discuss the exam with the faculty members with
whom they have taken the ﬁve chosen courses. Comprehensive exams
will take place during the second half of the fall and spring semesters.
Students will answer three questions over a weekend, receiving the exam
on a Friday at 5:00 PM and returning the completed examination the
following Monday, at 9:00 AM. All three answers must be written during
the speciﬁed weekend with no outside assistance. Students will write a
maximum of 21, double-spaced pages (normal formatting: 1” margins,
Times New Roman, 12 pitch font). Each answer should be approximately
six or seven pages. Prior to taking comprehensive exams, students
must submit to the Graduate Program Director a departmental “MA
Requirements and Comprehensive Examination Form, ” that lists all of
the courses the student has taken and identiﬁes on which courses the
student would like to be tested. At the beginning of each semester the
Graduate Program Director will distribute this form to all students who
will take the exam
Internship
PLSC 470 Fieldwork in Political Science-Internship   offers academic
credit toward your major or minor while interning and gaining
professional experience at one of several organizations, either here
in Chicago or elsewhere. The intent is for students to 1) apply their
education to date in a professional setting, 2) gain valuable experience
at the start of their professional careers, 3) to explore a particular area
of professional interest before embarking on their careers, and 4) to
potentially “get a foot in the door” within a particular ﬁeld or employer
with the hope of landing a permanent position upon graduation.  While
past interns have received job offers from organization where they
have interned, there are no guarantees or promises of employment that
accompany taking this course.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework. An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as
the start term for a major or graduate study. During Year 4, students
should plan to take any required major or elective courses needed to
complete their undergraduate degree alongside the suggested graduate
courses. Students should consult their advisor for assistance with course
selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 4
Fall
PLSC 401 Intro to Research Design & Method 3PLSC 475Political Analysis I3 Hours6
SpringPLSC 476Political Analysis II3PLSC Graduate-Level Elective3 Hours6
Year 5
Fall
PLSC Graduate-Level Elective 3PLSC Graduate-Level Elective3

--- Page 1286 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1317PLSC Graduate-Level Elective3 Hours9
Spring
PLSC Graduate-Level Elective 3PLSC Graduate-Level Elective3PLSC Graduate-Level Elective3 Hours9 Total Hours30
1If pursuing thesis capstone option, student must substitute this
elective for PLSC 596 Thesis Research .
Responsible Conduct of Research
All PhD students and students in thesis-based Master's degree programs
must successfully complete UNIV 370 Responsible Conduct in Research
and Scholarship  or other approved coursework in responsible conduct of
research as part of the degree requirements. It is strongly recommended
that students complete this two-day training before beginning the
dissertation/thesis stage of the program.
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’sprogram who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4

--- Page 1287 ---
1318  Political Science/International Affairs (BA/MA)
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned whilein the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
The dual BA/MA in Political Science offers students:
•An overview of the theories and scholarly literature devoted to four
major Political Science subﬁelds: American Politics (study of U.S.
institutions and political processes); Comparative Politics (study of
political processes in various regions of the world, such as Africa,
Asia, Europe, Latin America, and the Middle East); International
Relations (study of global processes throughout the international
system); or Political Theory (study of political philosophy ranging
from Ancient to Modern and Contemporary political thought).
•Methods training, including research design and statistical analysis,
that will enable the successful candidate to effectively design and
conduct research.
•Enhanced ability to express their thoughts in writing (all Political
Science graduate classes include a signiﬁcant writing component).
•Preparartion for purposeful careers in politics, government,
international affairs, law, the non-proﬁt world, journalism, business,
education, social services, and other professions, as well as for
further graduate (PhD) study at professional schools and institutions
of higher learning, both in the U.S. and abroad.
•We also encourage our BA/MA students to take advantage of
additional learning opportunities: Advanced methodological
training; Advanced language training/proﬁciency in a language
other than English; Advanced research skills; International, cross-
cultural experience; Professional development and experience;
and Networking opportunities
Political Science/International Affairs
(BA/MA)
The growing interconnectedness of the world’s almost 200 countries,
termed globalization, and the rising impacts of foreign affairs on our
daily lives increasingly require individuals with advanced knowledge
of International Affairs. The Accelerated BA/MA in Political Science
and International Affairs allows students to explore global problems
and interactions from an interdisciplinary perspective that makes use
of eight Arts and Sciences academic departments and four additional
colleges. Students will have the flexibility to tailor their program to ﬁt
their individual interests. Students can fulﬁll a capstone experience by
participating in an internship, taking a study abroad class, writing a paper
for publication, or writing a master’s thesis.
Loyola University Chicago and the City of Chicago together serve as the
ideal location for an MA in International Affairs: Loyola embodies a long
commitment to interdisciplinary education; and Chicago is consistently
ranked as one of the top ten global cities in the world. The program offers
a unique urban setting for students interested in the advanced study of
International Affairs.
The majority of full-time students are expected to ﬁnish the program
in 5 years, as opposed to the six years if both programs are pursued
separately. Undergraduate students from participating programs at
Loyola will be able to pursue an accelerated BA/MA in Political Science
and International Affairs.
Students will also be able to take graduate courses in the School of
Communication, the School of Education (International Education), the

--- Page 1288 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1319
School of Law, Parkinson School of Health Sciences and Public Health,
Quinlan School of Business, and the School of Social Work.
Related Programs
Major
•Political Science (BA)  (p. 638)
Minor
•Political Science Minor  (p. 640)
Combined
•Political Science (BA/MA)  (p. 1313 )
Curriculum
For the BA, students will complete requirements for the Bachelor's
degree, and graduate level courses may be used as electives.  For the MA,
students will take a total of ten classes (30 credit hours) to complete the
program: Four required core classes, including a capstone experience,
and an additional six elective classes, with no more than three offered by
a single department in the College of Arts & Sciences or another School
at Loyola.
Code Title Hours
Political Science BA RequirementsSelect three of the following:  19
PLSC 100 Political TheoryPLSC 101American PoliticsPLSC 102 International Relations in an Age of GlobalizationPLSC 103Comparative PoliticsSubﬁeld RequirementsOne (1) course in American Politics Subﬁeld  (p. 1319 )3
One (1) course in Political Theory Subﬁeld  (p. 1320 ) 3One (1) course in Comparative Politics Subﬁeld  (p. 1320 )3
One (1) course in International Relations Subﬁeld  (p. 1320 ) 3Four (4) PLSC Electives12
International Affairs MA RequirementsRequired CoursesCOREINTA 475Political Analysis I3
INTA 420 Comparative Political Systems 3INTA 430Theories of International Politics3
Capstone Experience 3Electives  (p. 1320 )In addition to the four core classes, students will take an additional
six elective courses, with no more than three offered by a single
department in the College of Arts and Sciences or another School
at Loyola. The core INTA courses in Political Science do not count
toward this three-course total, and thus a student may take three
Political Science courses in addition to the three core (required)
courses.18
Total Hours63
1If students take PLSC 100, 101, or 102 as the three required courses for
the major, they can  also take PLSC 103 and have it count as an elective
in the major. Students in the BA/MA Political Science and Students in
the BA/MA in  International Affairs can count two of the graduate levelcourses (at the 400 or 500 level)  that they take in their senior year as
electives in the PLSC major, alongside the other two courses at the 200
or 300 level.
BA Curricular Notes
•The Political Science internship program (PLSC 370), a 3- or 6-credit
hour course, counts as one of the four Political Science electives.
Only 3 credits of PLSC 370 may count toward the PLSC major, the
other three will be counted as general electives. An exception is made
for students who complete an internship in Chicago as well as an
internship via the Washington, DC program. In that case, 3 credit
hours from each internship may be applied to the major.
•The following courses do not fulﬁll subﬁeld requirements but do
count as electives toward the PLSC major:   PLSC 396 Directed
Readings  and  PLSC 216 Political Numbers  (PLSC 216 also fulﬁlls the
core quantitative reasoning requirement for PLSC majors only.) 
•The following courses neither fulﬁll subﬁeld requirements nor count
as electives toward the PLSC major:  PLSC 395 Political Science
Honors Seminar .  This is an extra course that students take beyond
the major requirements in order to graduate with Honors in Political
Science. 
BA Subﬁeld Courses
American Politics
Code Title Hours
PLSC 202 Mock Trial 13PLSC 203Moot Court 13
PLSC 208 Representation in the United States 3PLSC 215Politics of Marginalized Groups3
PLSC 218 African-American Politics 3PLSC 236Political Communication3
PLSC 238 Political Advocacy 3PLSC 251Women in American Politics3
PLSC 300A Contemporary Political Issues: American Politics 3PLSC 318Politics & the Economy3
PLSC 319 Women, Law & Public Policy 3PLSC 320Constitutional Law-Due Process3
PLSC 321 Constitutional Law-Powers of Government 3PLSC 322Constitutional Law-Rights and Liberties3
PLSC 323 Children, Law & Public Policy 3PLSC 324Civil-Military Relations3
PLSC 326 American National Security 3PLSC 327Political Psychology3
PLSC 328 Political Behavior 3PLSC 329Interest Group Politics3
PLSC 332 Politics of American Bureaucracies 3PLSC 334Urban Policies and Problems3
PLSC 335 Urban Semester Seminar 3PLSC 357Hollywood and Law3
PLSC 372 Crime, Race & Violence 3PLSC 376Political Behavior and Public Opinion3
PLSC 377 American Public Policies 3PLSC 378Intro to Political Economy3
PLSC 379 The Legislative Process 3PLSC 380Public Policy Analysis3

--- Page 1289 ---
1320  Political Science/International Affairs (BA/MA)
PLSC 381 The American Presidency 3PLSC 384The Judicial Process3
PLSC 385 Introduction to Law 3PLSC 386Campaigns and Elections3
PLSC 387 Politics and the Press 3PLSC 389State Politics3
PLSC 390 Urban Politics 3PLSC 391Chicago Politics3
PLSC 392 Environmental Politics 3PLSC 393Black Politics3
PLSC 398 Washington DC Internship Seminar 23
1This course is Engaged Learning.
2This course is Writing Intensive.
Political Theory
Code Title Hours
PLSC 300B Contemporary Political Issues: Political Theory 3PLSC 301Political Justice3
PLSC 302 American Political Thought 3PLSC 303Conservatism3
PLSC 304 Ancient Political Thought 3PLSC 306Modern Political Thought3
PLSC 307 Democratic Theory 3PLSC 308Contemporary Political Thought3
PLSC 309 Socialism 3PLSC 310BCatholic Political Thought3
PLSC 312 Feminist Theory 3PLSC 313Resistance and Obligation3
PLSC 314 Liberalism 3PLSC 330Global Justice3
PLSC 331 Islamic Political Thought 3PLSC 339Political Ideologies3
PLSC 373 Politics and Literature 3PLSC 388The Morality and Legality of War3
Comparative Politics
Code Title Hours
PLSC 232 Politics of the United Kingdom 3PLSC 300CContemporary Political Issues: Comparative
Politics3
PLSC 336 Politics in Contemporary China 3PLSC 337Terrorism3
PLSC 339 Political Ideologies 3PLSC 342African Politics3
PLSC 343 Latin American Politics 3PLSC 344Contemporary Issues in Latin America3
PLSC 345 South & Southeast Asian Politics 3PLSC 346East Asian Politics3
PLSC 347 The European Union 3PLSC 348Soviet & Post-Soviet Politics3
PLSC 349 Eastern European Politics 3PLSC 352Canadian Politics3PLSC 355C Women and Politics: A Cross-National Perspective 3PLSC 359Revolutions3
PLSC 360 Western European Politics 3PLSC 362Politics Developing Societies3
PLSC 365 Italian Politics & Government 3PLSC 366Dictatorship3
PLSC 368 Politics of the Middle East 3PLSC 374Democracy3
GLST 303 Technological Change and Society 3
International Relations
Code Title Hours
PLSC 204 Conflict Management 3PLSC 213International Human Rights3
PLSC 252 Capitalism and Its Discontents 3PLSC 300DContemporary Political issues in International
Relations3
PLSC 316 Politics of Genocide 3PLSC 317Politics of International Health3
PLSC 325 American Foreign Policy 3PLSC 333Crossing Borders: The Politics of Immigration3
PLSC 340 International Relations of Africa 3PLSC 350Politics of International Economic Relations3
PLSC 351 Latin American International System 3PLSC 353International Law3
PLSC 354 Global Environmental Politics 3PLSC 356Intervent in World Politics3
PLSC 358 War, Peace and Politics 3PLSC 358DThe Scientiﬁc Study of War3
PLSC 363 International Politics 3PLSC 364UN & International Organization3
PLSC 367 Model United Nations 13PLSC 369Politics of Energy3
GLST 302 States and Firms 3GLST 305Globalization and Environmental Sustainability3
1This course is Engaged Learning.
List of MA Elective Courses
The participating programs that will contribute classes to the MA
Electives include: Global Studies, History, Philosophy, Political Science,
Psychology, Sociology, and Theology, Criminal Justice & Criminology, as
well as the Schools of Communication, Education, Business, Law, Health
Sciences and Public Health, and Social Work.
Please note that the courses listed might not be offered every year and
new courses may be added to this list. Students should talk with the
Graduate Program Director if they want to take a course that is not on
the list of elective courses to see whether the course can serve as an
elective.
College of Arts and Sciences
Code Title Hours
Criminal Justice and Criminology DepartmentCJC 416International Criminal Justice3

--- Page 1290 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1321
Methods CoursesCJC 403Research Methods and Program Evaluation3
CJC 404 Applied Data Analysis and Interpretation 4History DepartmentHIST 441 Women's & Gender History: Europe 3HIST 459Environmental History3
HIST 464 Transnational Urban History 3Methods CoursesHIST 483 Oral History: Method and Practice 3Modern Languages and Literatures DepartmentLanguage Research Tool: Although there is no language requirement,
students interested in honing their foreign language skills will have
the option of taking a 400-level language course (i.e., a course
beyond 101, 102, 103, and 104), and having that course count as one
of the six elective courses. Current language possibilities offered at
Loyola include Chinese, French, German, Italian, and Spanish.MLL also offers graduate-level courses in Spanish as part of their
master’s degree in Spanish. These courses are as follows and would
be open only to interested students with advanced writing, speaking,
and reading skills in Spanish. These courses are as follows:SPAN 405 Critical Methods (pan-Hispanic world) 3SPAN 490Hispanic Culture & Civilization (Latin American
ﬁlm, with a focus on human rights)3
Philosophy DepartmentPHIL 459Philosophy of Law3
PHIL 463 Virtue Ethics (includes non-Western philosophy) 3PHIL TBDCritical Race Theory (originally taught as a “special
topics” course; is being turned into a permanent
course)PHIL 480 Social & Political Philosophy (focuses on global
development on a regular basis)3Methods CoursesPHIL 400 Philosophy Research Tools 3Political Science DepartmentPLSC 421 Democratic Political Systems 3PLSC 422Authoritarian Political Systems3
PLSC 431 Formulation US Foreign Policy 3PLSC 432Comparative Foreign Policy Analysis3
PLSC 433 International Organization 3PLSC 435International Political Economics3
PLSC 436 International Conflict 3Methods CoursesPLSC 401 Intro to Research Design & Method 3PLSC 476Political Analysis II3
Psychology DepartmentPSYC 460Social Psychological Theory3
PSYC 461 Attitude and Attitude Change 3PSYC 474Research in Group Dynamics3
PSYC 484 Prejudice and Intergroup Relations 3Methods CoursesPSYC 486 Methods of Program Evaluation 3Sociology DepartmentSOCL 418 Demography 3SOCL 423Social Movements3SOCL 426 Sociology of Gender 3SOCL 441Sociology of Religion3
SOCL 447 Sociology of Culture 3SOCL 461Race & Ethnicity3
Methods CoursesSOCL 410Logic of Sociological Inquiry3
SOCL 412 Qualitative Methods in Social Research 3SOCL 414Statistical Methods Analysis I3
SOCL 415 Statistical Methods of Analysis II 3Theology DepartmentTHEO 459 Contemporary Theology 1-12THEO 460Seminar in History of Theology1-12
THEO 464 Religion & Politics in Christian History 3THEO 470Foundations Crititical Issues Theological Ethics1-12
THEO 480 Seminar in Christian Ethics 1-12
School of Education (International Education)
Code Title Hours
ELPS 405 Introduction to Educational Policy Analysis 3ELPS 448International Higher Education3
ELPS 455 Comparative Education 3ELPS 540Seminar in the History of Education3
ELPS 550 Seminar on Globalization and Education 3ELPS 555Seminar Comparative Education3
 School of Communication
Code Title Hours
COMM 401 Foundations of Global Strategic Communication 3COMM 402Organizational Leadership and Change
Management3
COMM 422 Global and Multicultural Audiences and
Stakeholders3
School of Social Work
Code Title Hours
SOWK 502 Power, Oppression, Privilege, and Social Justice 3SOWK 654Global Social Work: Reflective Practice for Justice
and Peace3
SOWK 730 Immigration Dynamics and U.S. Social Policy 3SOWK 731Social Work Practice with Refugees and
Immigrants3
SOWK 732 Migration, Social Justice, and Human Rights 3SOWK 733North American Migration Dynamics, Challenges &
Opportunity1-3
School of Law 
Code Title Hours
LAW 371 International Business Trans 11-3LAW 388Global Access to Medicine: A Patent Perspective3
LAW 459 Intro to English Legal Profession 1LAW 176International Trade Law 11-3
LAW 372 International Law and Practice 3LAW 568European Union Law 11-3
1Explanatory note about 1, 2, 3, and variable credit hour courses from
the School of Law: “For the law courses showing a range of hours (e.g.,

--- Page 1291 ---
1322  Political Science/International Affairs (BA/MA)
1-3 credit hours), students have the option to choose the number of
credits for enrollment within the range. For students opting for the
higher credits (i.e., enrollment in 3 credit hours rather than 1 credit hour
would require additional assignments and/or an examination). If the
MA students in these courses need to be enrolled in 3 credit hours,
the following notation can be included with the course listing:  ‘MA
students must choose the 3 credit option for enrollment in this course’. ”
Please note that courses to be included in this MA program will require
students choosing the 3-credit option.
 School of Law - Classes Offered at the John Felice Rome Center
Code Title Hours
PLAW 101 Comparative and Ethical Lawyering for the Rule of
Law3PLAW 102History, Theory and Practice of Rule of Law for
Development3
PLAW 103 Theory and Practice of Assessments in Rule of
Law Advising2PLAW 104International Development Architecture3
PLAW 105 Sustainable Development Through International
Commerce and Investment2PLAW 106Design of Rule of Law Programs and Proposal
Preparation2
PLAW 107 Rule of Law in Conflict Prevention and
Peacebuilding2PLAW 108Legal Systems and Methods3
PLAW 250 Research and Writing on the Rule of Law 3PLAW 907Rule of Law Project Management, Monitoring &
Evaluation3
Parkinson School of Health Sciences and Public Health 
Code Title Hours
MPBH 400 Determinants of Population Health 3MPBH 414Introduction to Global Health3
MPBH 417 Global Maternal and Child Health 3MPBH 422Population Health Planning & Management3
MPBH 424 Health Economics and Healthcare Financing 3MPBH 432Health Impact Assessment3
Quinlan School of Business 
Code Title Hours
ECON 424 International Business Economics 3FINC 455International Financial Management3
HRER 422 Global HR Management 3HRER 502Global Employment Relations3
MARK 465 International Marketing 3MARK 461Research Methods in Marketing3
MGMT 446 International Business Ethics 3SCMG 486Global Logistics3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
In order to provide optimal flexibility in the program, there is no
required course sequence. However, students are expected to take
two graduate-level  course s in each semester of their senior year and
a total of six graduate-level  course s in their ﬁfth year. There is no
required  course  sequence , but we strongly suggest that students ﬁrsttake the required  course s (PLSC 420, PLSC 430, and PLSC 475) whenever
they are offered before taking elective  course s.
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.

--- Page 1292 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1323
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduatecredit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
Students will graduate from our program having achieved:
•a foundation for understanding and critiquing research related to
International Affairs, including methods training that leverages both
qualitative and quantitative data [International Affairs]
•knowledge of the principal theories of comparative politics and
international relations, as well as the key areas of research in these
two subﬁelds [International Affairs]
•an interdisciplinary understanding and appreciation of International
Affairs through coursework available within eight different
departments in the College of Arts and Sciences and four additional
Schools at Loyola [International Affairs]
•enhanced writing and critical thinking skills and dispositions through
class-based projects and a capstone experience [International Affairs]
•strengthened methods, research, or writing skills tailored to students
interests with advanced methods courses, language training, or the
writing of a master’s thesis. [International Affairs]

--- Page 1293 ---
1324  Psychology/Applied Social Psychology (BS/MA)
•Demonstrate an understanding of the structures and functions of
political systems. [Political Science]
•Be able to apply political theories and concepts when interpreting
past and current events. [Political Science]
•Recognize the influence of cultural, social, and historical contexts on
political behavior, values, institutions, or policies. [Political Science]
•Characterize the roots of enduring social disagreements and
conflicts. [Political Science]
•Evaluate normative or empirical claims about political
phenomena. [Political Science]
•Demonstrate an ability to communicate effectively about complex
political issues. [Political Science]
•Develop research skills to gather, evaluate, and synthesize
information from multiple sources to support arguments or theories
in political science. [Political Science]
Psychology/Applied Social
Psychology (BS/MA)
The ﬁve-year program in applied social psychology allows students to
earn both the  BS in Psychology  (p. 650) and the  MA in Applied Social
Psychology  (p. 1651 ) degrees in ﬁve years. Completing both degrees in
ﬁve years saves students approximately one year of study.
Graduates of the program obtain skills in basic and applied research
methodology, advanced training in statistics and a strong knowledge
base for theory and research in social psychology.
If you have additional questions about the program please contact  Dr.
Scott Tindale  (rtindal@luc.edu ) (Graduate Program Director).
Related Programs
Major
•Psychology (BS)  (p. 650)
Minor
•Psychology Minor  (p. 653)
Combined
•Psychology/International Affairs (BS/MA)  (p. 1327 )
Curriculum
The ﬁve-year degree in applied social psychology requires the completion
of 120 hours of undergraduate coursework toward the BS in Psychology
and the completion of 30 hours of graduate coursework toward the MA
in Applied Social Psychology. Twelve hours of the graduate coursework
also fulﬁll requirements for the undergraduate degree. The total number
of required hours is 138. Successful completion of the MA degree also
requires an empirical thesis.   Students begin taking graduate courses in
their senior year and complete the program in their 5th year.
Code Title Hours
Required Psychology CoursesPSYC 101General Psychology3
PSYC 201 Psychology Advising and Career Development 1PSYC 304Statistics3
PSYC 306 Research Methods in Psychology 3Diversity and Inclusion Requirement Course3Choose one of the following:PSYC 235Psychology of Human SexualityPSYC 237 Cross-Cultural PsychologyPSYC 238Gender & Sex Differences & SimilaritiesPSYC 239 Understanding Bias and InclusivityPSYC 360Understanding PrejudicePSYC 374 Community PsychologyBiological Pillar3
PSYC 240 Psychology-Biology of Perception
or NEUR 101 Introduction to NeuroscienceCognitive Pillar3
Choose one of the following:PSYC 250Cognitive PsychologyPSYC 251 Learning and MemoryPSYC 307Psychology of LanguagePSYC 382 Behavorial and Cognitive NeuroscienceDevelopmental Pillar3
PSYC 273 Developmental PsychologyPSYC 274Lifespan DevelopmentMental Health Pillar 3PSYC 331Psychopathologyor PSYC 346Psychopathology of Childhood
Social Pillar 3PSYC 275Social PsychologyAdvanced Lab 1Choose one of the following:PSYC 311 Lab in PsychobiologyPSYC 312Lab in Cognitive NeurosciencePSYC 313 Lab in Behavioral NeurosciencePSYC 314Lab in Experimental Psychology: CognitionPSYC 315 Lab in Tests & MeasurementsPSYC 316Lab in Experimental Psychology: Sense &
PerceptionPSYC 318 Lab in Developmental PsychologyPSYC 321Laboratory-Social PsychologyPSYC 327 Lab on Body ImageTwo (2) Electives  (p. 1325 ) 16
Select one of the following: 3PSYC 370Psychology Honors Research (Capstone)2nd Advanced Lab CoursePSYC 369Psychology Honors Readings (Honors only)3
Ancillary Quantitative RequirementSelect two of the following:6-8
MATH 108 Real World Modeling with MathematicsMATH 117Precalculus IMATH 118 Precalculus IIMATH 131Applied Calculus IMATH 132 Applied Calculus IIMATH 161Calculus IMATH 162 Calculus IIMATH 215Object-Oriented Programming with MathematicsCOMP 125 Visual Information Processing

--- Page 1294 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1325COMP 150Introduction to ComputingCOMP 170 Introduction to Object-Oriented ProgrammingCOMP 180Computing and Data Analysis for the SciencesDSCI 101 Fundamentals of Modern Data Science with RSTAT 103Fundamentals of StatisticsMA RequirementsCore Course RequirementsPSYC 420 Research Methods in Psychology 23PSYC 460Social Psychological Theory3
PSYC 482 Advanced Statistics 3PSYC 491Multivariate Analysis 23
Advanced Methods  3PSYC 486Methods of Program Evaluation (required)3
PSYC 493 Structural Equation Modeling 3Applied Topics (Pick One)3
PSYC 472 Organizational PsychologyPSYC 484Prejudice and Intergroup RelationsPSYC 485 Psychology and LawPSYC 489Political CognitionBasic Social Psychology (Pick One) 3PSYC 461Attitude and Attitude ChangePSYC 462 Cognitive Social PsychologyPSYC 474Research in Group DynamicsPSYC 477 The Self and Self-EsteemPSYC 479Cognition and EmotionTwo (2) Graduate-Level PSYC Electives  46Total Hours77
1These can be replaced with 400-level courses.
2Course must be completed with a grade of "B" or better.
3Advanced Methods courses can be any graduate level statistics
or methods course. Please contact Graduate Program Director for
assistance.
4Graduate level (400+) Psychology courses can be found  here
(p. 1648 ).
List of BA Elective Courses 
Code Title Hours
COMP 386 Methods in Computational Neuroscience 3PSYC 235Psychology of Human Sexuality3
PSYC 274 Lifespan Development 3PSYC 276Philosophy of Mind3
PSYC 280 Psychology of Judgment and Decision-Making 3PSYC 332Affective Neuroscience3
PSYC 340 Psychology of Women 3PSYC 348Psychology of Adolescence3
PSYC 350 Developmental Cognitive Neuroscience 3PSYC 352Neuropsychology3
PSYC 355 Neuroethics 3PSYC 362Industrial/Organizational Psychology3
PSYC 368 Counseling 3PSYC 371Psychology of Political Behavior3
PSYC 372 Psychology & Law 3PSYC 373Health Psychology3
PSYC 375 Psychology of Addiction 3PSYC 376Psychology of Religion3
PSYC 377 Psychology of Music 3PSYC 378Drugs and Behavior3
PSYC 386 Psychology Seminar: Selected Topics 3PSYC 387Seminar in Behavorial and Cognitive
Neurosciences3
PSYC 399 Special Studies in Psychology 1-3
 Thesis
The master's thesis should reflect an applied problem or theoretical
issue relevant to social psychology. In addition, the thesis should be
empirical, i.e., involve the collection and analysis of data. The student
must present the results of the study to the faculty and students of the
Social Psychology Program as part of the Program colloquium series. All
master's theses must be submitted for publication in accordance with
Graduate School policy.
Students are encouraged to begin work on their Master's thesis early
in their graduate careers. Optimally, data collection should begin in the
fall semester of the student's second year, and the thesis should be
completed by the beginning of the fall semester of his/her third year. This
allows students to begin teaching for the department during their third
year of graduate school.
Responsible Conduct of Research
All PhD students and students in thesis-based Master's degree programs
must successfully complete UNIV 370 Responsible Conduct in Research
and Scholarship  or other approved coursework in responsible conduct of
research as part of the degree requirements. It is strongly recommended
that students complete this two-day training before beginning the
dissertation/thesis stage of the program.
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:

--- Page 1295 ---
1326  Psychology/Applied Social Psychology (BS/MA)
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from coursesthat are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the

--- Page 1296 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1327
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•Explain how classic and contemporary social psychological theory
and research applies to human behavior in social settings
•Learn to conduct a literature review
•Evaluate the scientiﬁc rigor of research presented in social
psychological journals and books
•Synthesize principles of basic and advanced research methods to
produce independent, scholarly work
•Understand how to derive novel, previously untested hypotheses.
•Design and conduct basic and applied social psychology research
•Understand how to statistically analyze and interpret data collected
in social psychology research
•Understand how to write up an academic research article
•Understand how to give a high quality professional presentation
•Apply ethical standards to evaluate psychological science and
practice
•Apply knowledge of social psychology to scholarly and/or
professional activities to promote positive social change
•Apply psychological content and skills to career goals
•Acquisition of research and publication skills that will allow students
to pursue an applied job after completing the program
Psychology/International Affairs (BS/
MA)
The growing interconnectedness of the world’s almost 200 countries,
termed globalization, and the rising impacts of foreign affairs on our
daily lives increasingly require individuals with advanced knowledge
of International Affairs. The Accelerated BS/MA in Psychology and
International Affairs allows students to explore global problems and
interactions from an interdisciplinary perspective that makes use of
eight Arts and Sciences academic departments and four additional
colleges. Students will have the flexibility to tailor their program to ﬁt
their individual interests. Students can fulﬁll a capstone experience by
participating in an internship, taking a study abroad class, writing a paper
for publication, or writing a master’s thesis.
Loyola University Chicago and the City of Chicago together serve as the
ideal location for an MA in International Affairs: Loyola embodies a long
commitment to interdisciplinary education; and Chicago is consistently
ranked as one of the top ten global cities in the world. The program offers
a unique urban setting for students interested in the advanced study of
International Affairs.The majority of full-time students are expected to ﬁnish the program
in 5 years, as opposed to the six years if both programs are pursued
separately. Undergraduate students from participating programs at
Loyola will be able to pursue an accelerated BS/MA in Psychology and
International Affairs.
Students will also be able to take graduate courses in the School of
Communication, the School of Education (International Education), the
School of Law, Parkinson School of Health Sciences and Public Health,
Quinlan School of Business, and the School of Social Work.
Related Programs
Major
•Psychology (BS)  (p. 650)
Combined
•Psychology/Applied Social Psychology (BS/MA)  (p. 1324 )
Curriculum
For the BS, students will complete requirements for the Bachelor's
degree, and graduate level courses may be used as electives.  For the MA,
students will take a total of ten classes (30 credit hours) to complete the
program: Four required core classes, including a capstone experience,
and an additional six elective classes, with no more than three offered by
a single department in the College of Arts & Sciences or another School
at Loyola.
Code Title Hours
Required BS CoursesPSYC 101General Psychology3
PSYC 201 Psychology Advising and Career Development 1PSYC 304Statistics3
PSYC 306 Research Methods in Psychology 3Diversity and Inclusion Requirement Course3
Choose one of the following:PSYC 235Psychology of Human SexualityPSYC 237 Cross-Cultural PsychologyPSYC 238Gender & Sex Differences & SimilaritiesPSYC 239 Understanding Bias and InclusivityPSYC 360Understanding PrejudicePSYC 374 Community PsychologyBiological Pillar3
PSYC 240 Psychology-Biology of Perception
or NEUR 101 Introduction to NeuroscienceCognitive Pillar3
Choose one of the following:PSYC 250Cognitive PsychologyPSYC 251 Learning and MemoryPSYC 307Psychology of LanguagePSYC 382 Behavorial and Cognitive NeuroscienceDevelopmental Pillar3
PSYC 273 Developmental PsychologyPSYC 274Lifespan DevelopmentMental Health Pillar 3PSYC 331Psychopathology

--- Page 1297 ---
1328  Psychology/International Affairs (BS/MA)or PSYC 346Psychopathology of Childhood
Social Pillar 3PSYC 275Social PsychologyAdvanced Lab 1Choose one of the following:PSYC 311 Lab in PsychobiologyPSYC 312Lab in Cognitive NeurosciencePSYC 313 Lab in Behavioral NeurosciencePSYC 314Lab in Experimental Psychology: CognitionPSYC 315 Lab in Tests & MeasurementsPSYC 316Lab in Experimental Psychology: Sense &
PerceptionPSYC 318 Lab in Developmental PsychologyPSYC 321Laboratory-Social PsychologyPSYC 327 Lab on Body ImageTwo (2) Electives  (p. 1328 )6
Select one of the following: 3PSYC 370Psychology Honors Research (Capstone)2nd Advanced Lab CoursePSYC 369Psychology Honors Readings (Honors only)3
Ancillary Quantitative RequirementSelect two of the following:6-8
MATH 108 Real World Modeling with MathematicsMATH 117Precalculus IMATH 118 Precalculus IIMATH 131Applied Calculus IMATH 132 Applied Calculus IIMATH 161Calculus IMATH 162 Calculus IIMATH 215Object-Oriented Programming with MathematicsCOMP 125 Visual Information ProcessingCOMP 150Introduction to ComputingCOMP 170 Introduction to Object-Oriented ProgrammingCOMP 180Computing and Data Analysis for the SciencesDSCI 101 Fundamentals of Modern Data Science with RSTAT 103Fundamentals of StatisticsRequired MA CoursesCOREINTA 420 Comparative Political Systems 3INTA 430Theories of International Politics3
INTA 475 Political Analysis I 3Capstone Experience3
INTA 470 Fieldwork in PLSC-InternshipPLSC 499Directed ReadingsPLSC 605 Master's StudyElectives  (p. 1328 ) 118In addition to the four core classes, students will take an additional
six elective courses, with no more than three offered by a single
department in the College of Arts and Sciences or another School
at Loyola. The core INTA courses in Political Science do not count
toward this three-course total, and thus a student may take three
Political Science courses in addition to the three core (required)
courses.Total Hours71-73
1Two Graduate-level International Affairs courses must be taken
Senior Year. These courses can count as major electives or general
electives. These two courses double-count for International Affairs MA
requirements.
The participating programs that will contribute classes include: Global
Studies, History, Philosophy, Political Science, Psychology, Sociology,
and Theology, Criminal Justice & Criminology, as well as the Schools of
Communication, Education, Business, Law, Health Sciences and Public
Health, and Social Work.
List of BA Elective Courses
Code Title Hours
COMP 386 Methods in Computational Neuroscience 3PSYC 235Psychology of Human Sexuality3
PSYC 274 Lifespan Development 3PSYC 276Philosophy of Mind3
PSYC 280 Psychology of Judgment and Decision-Making 3PSYC 332Affective Neuroscience3
PSYC 340 Psychology of Women 3PSYC 348Psychology of Adolescence3
PSYC 350 Developmental Cognitive Neuroscience 3PSYC 352Neuropsychology3
PSYC 355 Neuroethics 3PSYC 362Industrial/Organizational Psychology3
PSYC 368 Counseling 3PSYC 371Psychology of Political Behavior3
PSYC 372 Psychology & Law 3PSYC 373Health Psychology3
PSYC 375 Psychology of Addiction 3PSYC 376Psychology of Religion3
PSYC 377 Psychology of Music 3PSYC 378Drugs and Behavior3
PSYC 386 Psychology Seminar: Selected Topics 3PSYC 387Seminar in Behavorial and Cognitive
Neurosciences3
PSYC 399 Special Studies in Psychology 1-3
List of MA Elective Courses
Please note that the courses listed might not be offered every year and
new courses may be added to this list. Students should talk with the
Graduate Program Director if they want to take a course that is not on
the list of elective courses to see whether the course can serve as an
elective.

--- Page 1298 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1329
College of Arts and Sciences    
Code Title Hours
Criminal Justice and Criminology DepartmentCJC 416International Criminal Justice3
Methods CoursesCJC 403Research Methods and Program Evaluation3
CJC 404 Applied Data Analysis and Interpretation 4History DepartmentHIST 441 Women's & Gender History: Europe 3HIST 459Environmental History3
HIST 464 Transnational Urban History 3Methods CoursesHIST 483 Oral History: Method and Practice 3Modern Languages and Literatures DepartmentLanguage Research Tool: Although there is no language requirement,
students interested in honing their foreign language skills will have
the option of taking a 400-level language course (i.e., a course
beyond 101, 102, 103, and 104), and having that course count as one
of the six elective courses. Current language possibilities offered at
Loyola include Chinese, French, German, Italian, and Spanish.MLL also offers graduate-level courses in Spanish as part of their
master’s degree in Spanish. These courses are as follows and would
be open only to interested students with advanced writing, speaking,
and reading skills in Spanish. These courses are as follows:SPAN 405 Critical Methods (pan-Hispanic world) 3SPAN 490Hispanic Culture & Civilization (Latin American
ﬁlm, with a focus on human rights)3
Philosophy DepartmentPHIL 459Philosophy of Law3
PHIL 463 Virtue Ethics (includes non-Western philosophy) 3PHIL TBDCritical Race Theory (originally taught as a “special
topics” course; is being turned into a permanent
course)PHIL 480 Social & Political Philosophy (focuses on global
development on a regular basis)3Methods CoursesPHIL 400 Philosophy Research Tools 3Political Science DepartmentPLSC 421 Democratic Political Systems 3PLSC 422Authoritarian Political Systems3
PLSC 431 Formulation US Foreign Policy 3PLSC 432Comparative Foreign Policy Analysis3
PLSC 433 International Organization 3PLSC 435International Political Economics3
PLSC 436 International Conflict 3Methods CoursesPLSC 401 Intro to Research Design & Method 3PLSC 476Political Analysis II3
Psychology DepartmentPSYC 460Social Psychological Theory3
PSYC 461 Attitude and Attitude Change 3PSYC 474Research in Group Dynamics3
PSYC 484 Prejudice and Intergroup Relations 3Methods CoursesPSYC 486 Methods of Program Evaluation 3Sociology DepartmentSOCL 418 Demography 3SOCL 423Social Movements3
SOCL 426 Sociology of Gender 3SOCL 441Sociology of Religion3
SOCL 447 Sociology of Culture 3SOCL 461Race & Ethnicity3
Methods CoursesSOCL 410Logic of Sociological Inquiry3
SOCL 412 Qualitative Methods in Social Research 3SOCL 414Statistical Methods Analysis I3
SOCL 415 Statistical Methods of Analysis II 3Theology DepartmentTHEO 459 Contemporary Theology 1-12THEO 460Seminar in History of Theology1-12
THEO 464 Religion & Politics in Christian History 3THEO 470Foundations Crititical Issues Theological Ethics1-12
THEO 480 Seminar in Christian Ethics 1-12
 School of Education (International Education)
Code Title Hours
ELPS 405 Introduction to Educational Policy Analysis 3ELPS 448International Higher Education3
ELPS 455 Comparative Education 3ELPS 540Seminar in the History of Education3
ELPS 550 Seminar on Globalization and Education 3ELPS 555Seminar Comparative Education3
School of Communication
Code Title Hours
COMM 401 Foundations of Global Strategic Communication 3COMM 402Organizational Leadership and Change
Management3
COMM 422 Global and Multicultural Audiences and
Stakeholders3
School of Social Work
Code Title Hours
SOWK 502 Power, Oppression, Privilege, and Social Justice 3SOWK 654Global Social Work: Reflective Practice for Justice
and Peace3
SOWK 730 Immigration Dynamics and U.S. Social Policy 3SOWK 731Social Work Practice with Refugees and
Immigrants3
SOWK 732 Migration, Social Justice, and Human Rights 3SOWK 733North American Migration Dynamics, Challenges &
Opportunity1-3
School of Law
Code Title Hours
LAW 176 International Trade Law 11-3LAW 371International Business Trans 11-3
LAW 372 International Law and Practice 3LAW 388Global Access to Medicine: A Patent Perspective3

--- Page 1299 ---
1330  Psychology/International Affairs (BS/MA)
LAW 459 Intro to English Legal Profession 1LAW 568European Union Law 11-3
1Explanatory note about 1, 2, 3, and variable credit hour courses from
the School of Law: “For the law courses showing a range of hours (e.g.,
1-3 credit hours), students have the option to choose the number of
credits for enrollment within the range. For students opting for the
higher credits (i.e., enrollment in 3 credit hours rather than 1 credit hour
would require additional assignments and/or an examination). If the
MA students in these courses need to be enrolled in 3 credit hours,
the following notation can be included with the course listing:  ‘MA
students must choose the 3 credit option for enrollment in this course’. ”
Please note that courses to be included in this MA program will require
students choosing the 3-credit option.
School of Law - Classes Offered at the John Felice Rome Center
Code Title Hours
PLAW 101 Comparative and Ethical Lawyering for the Rule of
Law3PLAW 102History, Theory and Practice of Rule of Law for
Development3
PLAW 103 Theory and Practice of Assessments in Rule of
Law Advising2PLAW 104International Development Architecture3
PLAW 105 Sustainable Development Through International
Commerce and Investment2PLAW 106Design of Rule of Law Programs and Proposal
Preparation2
PLAW 107 Rule of Law in Conflict Prevention and
Peacebuilding2PLAW 108Legal Systems and Methods3
PLAW 250 Research and Writing on the Rule of Law 3PLAW 907Rule of Law Project Management, Monitoring &
Evaluation3
 Parkinson School of Health Sciences and Public Health
Code Title Hours
MPBH 400 Determinants of Population Health 3MPBH 414Introduction to Global Health3
MPBH 417 Global Maternal and Child Health 3MPBH 422Population Health Planning & Management3
MPBH 424 Health Economics and Healthcare Financing 3MPBH 432Health Impact Assessment3
Quinlan School of Business
Code Title Hours
ECON 424 International Business Economics 3FINC 455International Financial Management3
HRER 422 Global HR Management 3HRER 502Global Employment Relations3
MARK 465 International Marketing 3MARK 461Research Methods in Marketing3
MGMT 446 International Business Ethics 3SCMG 486Global Logistics3Suggested Sequence of Courses
In order to provide optimal flexibility in the program, there is no
required course sequence. However, students are expected to take
two graduate-level  course s in each semester of their senior year and
a total of six graduate-level  course s in their ﬁfth year. There is no
required  course  sequence , but we strongly suggest that students ﬁrst
take the required  course s (PLSC 420, PLSC 430, and PLSC 475) whenever
they are offered before taking elective  course s.
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially

--- Page 1300 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1331
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours whilecompleting the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
Students will graduate from our program having achieved:
•a foundation for understanding and critiquing research related to
International Affairs, including methods training that leverages both
qualitative and quantitative data [International Affairs]
•knowledge of the principal theories of comparative politics and
international relations, as well as the key areas of research in these
two subﬁelds [International Affairs]
•an interdisciplinary understanding and appreciation of International
Affairs through coursework available within eight different

--- Page 1301 ---
1332  Public Health (BS/MPH)
departments in the College of Arts and Sciences and four additional
Schools at Loyola [International Affairs]
•enhanced writing and critical thinking skills and dispositions through
class-based projects and a capstone experience [International Affairs]
•strengthened methods, research, or writing skills tailored to students
interests with advanced methods courses, language training, or the
writing of a master’s thesis. [International Affairs]
•Acquire a broad understanding of fundamental psychological
principles and concepts, including the biological, cognitive,
developmental, mental health, and social pillars of psychological
science. [Psychology]
•Learn to use scientiﬁc knowledge to make reasoned and ethical
judgments promoting the health and well-being of the individual,
community, and society. [Psychology]
•Develop the ability to design, conduct, and communicate
the results, both orally and in writing, of basic psychological
research. [Psychology]
•Develop the ability to think quantitatively about psychological
concepts, and to quantitatively analyze experimental
results. [Psychology]
•Participate in scientiﬁc inquiry using the methodologies and tools of
psychological science in laboratory and ﬁeld settings. [Psychology]
•Expose students to theoretical approaches that deal with privilege,
oppression, and social justice and encourage appreciation of
differences in psychology across cultures. [Psychology]
Public Health (BS/MPH)
Earn your bachelor's degree and master's degree in ﬁve years.
Grounded in the basic sciences with an emphasis on population health,
the Bachelor of Science in Public Health (BSPH) program prepares
students for positions in ﬁelds such as health education, epide miology,
and environmental health across nonproﬁt, industry, and government
sectors. Inspired by Loyola's Jesuit tradition of social justice and freedom
of inquiry, the Master of Public Health (MPH) program prepares students
to improve population health and promote health equity with three MPH
study tracks: Public Health Policy and Management, Epidemiology, and
Global Health Equity.
Related Programs
Major
•Healthcare Administration (BS)  (p. 721)
•Public Health (BS)  (p. 728)
Combined
•Healthcare Administration/Public Health (BS/MPH)  (p. 1234 )
Curriculum
Code Title Hours
BSPH RequirementsBIOL 101General Biology I3
BIOL 102 General Biology II 3BIOL 111General Biology I Lab1
BIOL 112 General Biology II Lab 1MATH 131Applied Calculus I3
MATH 132 Applied Calculus II 3STAT 335Introduction to Biostatistics 43
STAT 303 SAS Programming & Applied Statistics 3PSYC 101General Psychology3
ANTH 280 Evolution of Human Disease 3PHIL 284Health Care Ethics3or PHIL 287Environmental Ethics
ENVS 380 Introduction to Geographic Information Systems 43HSM 110Healthcare in America 13
HSM 230 Fundamentals of Health Equity 3HSM 310Healthcare Project Management3
PUBH 300 Introduction to Public Health 3PUBH 301Health and the Environment3
PUBH 303 Fundamentals of Epidemiology 43PUBH 304Health Behavior and Health Promotion 13
PUBH 306 Critical Thinking in Public Health 23PUBH 307Foundations of Public Health Policy 43
PUBH 314 /
HSM 210Global Public Health 43PUBH 399Public Health Capstone Experience 13
Public Health Electives  46Select two of the following:  3PUBH 310 Public Health InternshipPUBH 390Special Topics: Public Health IntelligenceMPH RequirementsMPBH 400Determinants of Population Health 43
MPBH 402 Public Health Practice and Management 43MPBH 403Introduction to Epidemiology 43
MPBH 404 Biostatistics for Health and Biological Science 43
or MPBH 409 Biostatistics IMPBH 407Public Health Policy: Concepts and Practice 43
MPBH 499 Public Health in Action 3MPH Track-Speciﬁc Curricula  (p. 1333 )15
MPH Electives 6Select two of the following:MPBH 413 Non-Communicable Disease EpidemiologyMPBH 414Introduction to Global Health 4or MPBH 417Global Maternal & Child Health
MPBH 426 Infectious Disease EpidemiologyMPBH 432Health Impact AssessmentMPBH 495 Special TopicsENVS 480Introduction to Geographic Information Systems 4Applied Practice Experience  (p. 1333 ) 1MPBH 410MPH PracticumIntegrated Learning Experience  (p. 1333 ) 2MPBH 411MPH CapstoneTotal Hours98
1This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.
2This course satisﬁes the Writing Intensive requirement.
3Other elective courses may be available upon advisor approval.
4MPBH 403 ; MPBH 407 ; MPBH 414  or MPBH 417 ; MPBH 404  or
MPBH 409 ; and ENVS 480  satisfy BSPH and MPH curriculum
requirements and are direct substitutes for the BSPH PUBH 303 ,

--- Page 1302 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1333
PUBH 307 , PUBH 314 /HSM 210 , STAT 335  and ENVS 380 , respectively.
Additionally,  MPBH 400  or MPBH 402  may be added in the senior
year as a substitute for an elective. The goal is for the student to
complete 15 credits of the MPH curriculum in the senior year leaving 27
remaining MPH credits to be taken in the MPH year.
MPH Track-Speciﬁc Curricula (15 credits)
Epidemiology
This hybrid program combines online and evening classes. Epidemiology
is the basic science of public health: it helps us understand the causes of
and solutions to diseases. This track equips students to design, conduct,
analyze, and interpret population health research, while they learn the
basic principles of all public health disciplines.
Code Title Hours
MPBH 412 Intro to Statistical Computing for Public Health 2MPBH 421Biostatistics II3
MPBH 423 Intermediate Epidemiology 3MPBH 427Advanced Statistical Methods1
MPBH 431 Grant Writing 3Choose One Research Methods Course from the following:3
MPBH 413 Non-Communicable Disease EpidemiologyMPBH 414Introduction to Global HealthMPBH 433 Clinical TrialsMPBH 434Systematic Review and Meta-AnalysisENVS 480Introduction to Geographic Information SystemsTotal Hours15
Global Health Equity
This concentration is a hybrid program of online and evening classes.
Study the health of global populations with the ultimate goal of
identifying and eliminating structures and practices of inequity and
injustice to advance health equity for individuals and populations.
Code Title Hours
MPBH 414 Introduction to Global Health 3MPBH 417Global Maternal & Child Health3
MPBH 422 Population Health Planning & Management 3MPBH 431Grant Writing3
Choose one of the following:  13BEHL 407Social Determinants of Health and BioethicsBEHL 432Global BioethicsTotal Hours15
Public Health Policy and Management
This concentration can be completed entirely online, and also can be
taken with in-person courses. This curriculum studies the organization,
structure, and delivery of health-related services, and associated
population health outcomes. Students may customize their academic
focus in either public health policy, administration, or both.
Code Title Hours
MPBH 416 Health Services Research Methods 3MPBH 425Policy Analysis3
Choose one of the following 3BEHL 402Justice & Health CareBEHL 404 Biomedical Ethics and LawBEHL 407Social Determinants of Health and BioethicsBEHL 411 Systems Ethics FrameworksBEHL 412Organizational Ethics I: Business, Professionalism,
and JusticeBEHL 432 Global BioethicsChoose two of the following6
Policy-orientedMPBH 420Public Health Law: Theories and CasesMPBH 424 Health Economics and Healthcare FinancingManagement-orientedMPBH 422 Population Health Planning & ManagementCMAN 533Fiscal Management in Health Care OrganizationsTotal Hours15
Applied Practice Experience (1 credit)
Also known as the MPH practicum, it provides the student with practical
experience in a public health setting, requiring the student to apply
and integrate skills and knowledge learned in courses. The applied
practice experience (APE) must be 210 hours or more. Students must
apply ﬁve program competencies to their APE and produce at least
two deliverables, which will become part of their portfolio. Examples
of APE sites include MRSA Research Center, North Shore Mosquito
Abatement District, Summer Field Research in Ghana, Health and
Medicine Policy Research Group, American Cancer Society, American
Diabetes Association, Chicago Department of Public Health, and Mount
Sinai Hospital.
Integrated Learning Experience (2 credits)
The integrated learning experience is a student-led capstone project
culminating with a presentation and written manuscript. The project
should demonstrate student's ability to apply acquired skills and
competencies to a public health problem that simulates a professional
practice experience. Depending on their interests, some students may
analyze data collected during their practicum to help complete their
capstone.
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:

--- Page 1303 ---
1334  Public Health (BS/MPH)
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from coursesthat are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the

--- Page 1304 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1335
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•Beginning with courses in ethics, environmental sciences, biology,
mathematics, social sciences, and the humanities alongside
epidemiology, biostatistics, health behavior and health promotion,
and public health policy gained in the undergraduate public health
program, students will graduate with public health competencies
in the areas of evidence-based approaches, public health and
health care systems, planning and management, policy, leadership,
communication, interprofessional practice, and systems thinking.
Secondary Education/International
Affairs (BSEd/MA)
The growing interconnectedness of the world’s almost 200 countries,
termed globalization, and the rising impacts of foreign affairs on our
daily lives increasingly require individuals with advanced knowledge of
International Affairs. The Accelerated BSEd/MA in Secondary Education
and International Affairs allows students to explore global problems
and interactions from an interdisciplinary perspective that makes use
of eight Arts and Sciences academic departments and four additional
colleges. Students will have the flexibility to tailor their program to ﬁt
their individual interests. Students can fulﬁll a capstone experience by
participating in an internship, taking a study abroad class, writing a paper
for publication, or writing a master’s thesis.
Loyola University Chicago and the City of Chicago together serve as the
ideal location for an MA in International Affairs: Loyola embodies a long
commitment to interdisciplinary education; and Chicago is consistently
ranked as one of the top ten global cities in the world. The program offers
a unique urban setting for students interested in the advanced study of
International Affairs.
The majority of full-time students are expected to ﬁnish the program
in 5 years, as opposed to the six years if both programs are pursued
separately. Undergraduate students from participating programs at
Loyola will be able to pursue an accelerated BSEd/MA in Secondary
Education and International Affairs.
Students will also be able to take graduate courses in the School of
Communication, the School of Education (International Education), the
School of Law, Parkinson School of Health Sciences and Public Health,
Quinlan School of Business, and the School of Social Work.Related Programs
Major
•Secondary Education (BSEd)  (p. 904)
Master's
•Secondary Education (MEd)  (p. 2014 )
Curriculum
For the BSEd, students will complete requirements for the Bachelor's
degree, and graduate level courses may be used as electives.  For the MA,
students will take a total of ten classes (30 credit hours) to complete the
program: Four required core classes, including a capstone experience,
and an additional six elective classes, with no more than three offered by
a single department in the College of Arts & Sciences or another School
at Loyola.
Code Title Hours
BSEd RequirementsCIEP 350Adolescent Literature 13
ELPS 219 History of American Education 23ELPS 302Philosophy of Education3
TLSC 110 The Profession and Our Program (TLLSC) 1TLSC 120Bringing Language, Learning & Development
Theory into Practice2
TLSC 130 Sequence One: 130 Community Immersion 1TLSC 140Teaching, Learning and Leading for Social Justice1
TLSC 150 Constructive Learning Environments For Diverse
Students1TLSC 160Analyzing Culturally-Responsive Classroom
Instruction1
TLSC 210 Educational Policy For Diverse Students 2TLSC 221Individualized Instruction and Assessment for
Diverse Learners2
TLSC 222 Authentic Assessment and Instruction for Bilingual
Learners2TLSC 300AProfessional Learning Communities0
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities 1TLSC 310Language and Literacy for Diverse Students2
TLSC 320 Using Classroom Data in a Collaborative Env to
Advance Student Achievement2TLSC 330Discipline-Speciﬁc Literacy for Diverse Students2
TLSC 340 Teaching and Learning in an Area of Specialization 2TLSC 350Teaching and Learning with a Global Framework4
TLSC 360 Developing Rigorous and Relevant Instruction &
Assessment3TLSC 370Design&Implement Rigorous&Rlvnt
Instrctn&Assmt: Tching Perform Assmt Prep3
TLSC 380 Tching, Lrning & Leading with Schools &
Communities Internship: Stud Tching12International Affairs MA RequirementsCoreINTA 420Comparative Political Systems3
INTA 430 Theories of International Politics 3INTA 475Political Analysis I3
Capstone Experience 3

--- Page 1305 ---
1336  Secondary Education/International Affairs (BSEd/MA)Select one of the following:INTA 470 Fieldwork in PLSC-InternshipPLSC 499Directed ReadingsPLSC 605 Master's StudyElectives  (p. 1336 ) 318In addition to the four core classes, students will take an additional
six elective courses, with no more than three offered by a single
department in the College of Arts and Sciences or another School
at Loyola. The core INTA courses in Political Science do not count
toward this three-course total, and thus a student may take three
Political Science courses in addition to the three core (required)
courses.Total Hours83
1For Secondary Education and English majors only.
2For Secondary Education with either English or Mathematics only.
3Two Graduate-level International Affairs courses must be taken
Senior Year. These courses can count as major electives or general
electives. These two courses double-count for International Affairs MA
requirements.
All of Loyola’s Bachelor of Science in Education (BSEd) degrees use the
Teaching, Learning, and Leading with Schools and Communities (TLLSC)
curriculum as their foundation. TLLSC is an approach that will help you
stand out when you’re searching for your ﬁrst job.
The TLLSC curriculum focuses on hands-on learning. Your studies
will be built around four Cornerstones—partnering with schools
and communities, classroom diversity, ongoing classroom experience,
and participating in professional learning communities.
As you learn and grow, you’ll progress through the three  Phases 
(https://www.luc.edu/education/academics/areasofstudy/
teachinglearningandleadingwithschoolsandcommunities/
bsedprogramphases/ )of the program. These phases will guide you
through a comprehensive experience that will prepare you to make a
difference with learners in diverse settings.
List of International Affairs MA Elective Courses
The participating programs that will contribute classes include: Global
Studies, History, Philosophy, Political Science, Psychology, Sociology,
and Theology, Criminal Justice & Criminology, as well as the Schools of
Communication, Education, Business, Law, Health Sciences and Public
Health, and Social Work.
Please note that the courses listed might not be offered every year and
new courses may be added to this list. Students should talk with the
Graduate Program Director if they want to take a course that is not on
the list of elective courses to see whether the course can serve as an
elective.
College of Arts and Sciences
Code Title Hours
Criminal Justice and Criminology DepartmentCJC 416International Criminal Justice3
Methods CoursesCJC 403Research Methods and Program Evaluation3
CJC 404 Applied Data Analysis and Interpretation 4History DepartmentHIST 441 Women's & Gender History: Europe 3HIST 459Environmental History3
HIST 464 Transnational Urban History 3Methods CoursesHIST 483 Oral History: Method and Practice 3Modern Languages and Literatures DepartmentLanguage Research Tool: Although there is no language requirement,
students interested in honing their foreign language skills will have
the option of taking a 400-level language course (i.e., a course
beyond 101, 102, 103, and 104), and having that course count as one
of the six elective courses. Current language possibilities offered at
Loyola include Chinese, French, German, Italian, and Spanish.MLL also offers graduate-level courses in Spanish as part of their
master’s degree in Spanish. These courses are as follows and would
be open only to interested students with advanced writing, speaking,
and reading skills in Spanish. These courses are as follows:SPAN 405 Critical Methods (pan-Hispanic world) 3SPAN 490Hispanic Culture & Civilization (Latin American
ﬁlm, with a focus on human rights)3
Philosophy DepartmentPHIL 459Philosophy of Law3
PHIL 463 Virtue Ethics (includes non-Western philosophy) 3PHIL TBDCritical Race Theory (originally taught as a “special
topics” course; is being turned into a permanent
course)PHIL 480 Social & Political Philosophy (focuses on global
development on a regular basis)3Methods CoursesPHIL 400 Philosophy Research Tools 3Political Science DepartmentPLSC 421 Democratic Political Systems 3PLSC 422Authoritarian Political Systems3
PLSC 431 Formulation US Foreign Policy 3PLSC 432Comparative Foreign Policy Analysis3
PLSC 433 International Organization 3PLSC 435International Political Economics3
PLSC 436 International Conflict 3Methods CoursesPLSC 401 Intro to Research Design & Method 3PLSC 476Political Analysis II3
Psychology DepartmentPSYC 460Social Psychological Theory3
PSYC 461 Attitude and Attitude Change 3PSYC 474Research in Group Dynamics3
PSYC 484 Prejudice and Intergroup Relations 3Methods CoursesPSYC 486 Methods of Program Evaluation 3Sociology DepartmentSOCL 418 Demography 3SOCL 423Social Movements3
SOCL 426 Sociology of Gender 3SOCL 441Sociology of Religion3
SOCL 447 Sociology of Culture 3SOCL 461Race & Ethnicity3
Methods Courses

--- Page 1306 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1337SOCL 410Logic of Sociological Inquiry3
SOCL 412 Qualitative Methods in Social Research 3SOCL 414Statistical Methods Analysis I3
SOCL 415 Statistical Methods of Analysis II 3Theology DepartmentTHEO 459 Contemporary Theology 1-12THEO 460Seminar in History of Theology1-12
THEO 464 Religion & Politics in Christian History 3THEO 470Foundations Crititical Issues Theological Ethics1-12
THEO 480 Seminar in Christian Ethics 1-12
School of Education (International Education)
Code Title Hours
ELPS 405 Introduction to Educational Policy Analysis 3ELPS 448International Higher Education3
ELPS 455 Comparative Education 3ELPS 540Seminar in the History of Education3
ELPS 550 Seminar on Globalization and Education 3ELPS 555Seminar Comparative Education3
School of Communication
Code Title Hours
COMM 401 Foundations of Global Strategic Communication 3COMM 402Organizational Leadership and Change
Management3
COMM 422 Global and Multicultural Audiences and
Stakeholders3
School of Social Work
Code Title Hours
SOWK 502 Power, Oppression, Privilege, and Social Justice 3SOWK 654Global Social Work: Reflective Practice for Justice
and Peace3
SOWK 730 Immigration Dynamics and U.S. Social Policy 3SOWK 731Social Work Practice with Refugees and
Immigrants3
SOWK 732 Migration, Social Justice, and Human Rights 3SOWK 733North American Migration Dynamics, Challenges &
Opportunity1-3
School of Law 
Code Title Hours
LAW 176 International Trade Law 11-3LAW 371International Business Trans 11-3
LAW 372 International Law and Practice 3LAW 388Global Access to Medicine: A Patent Perspective3
LAW 459 Intro to English Legal Profession 1LAW 568European Union Law 11-3
1Explanatory note about 1, 2, 3, and variable credit hour courses from
the School of Law: “For the law courses showing a range of hours (e.g.,
1-3 credit hours), students have the option to choose the number of
credits for enrollment within the range. For students opting for the
higher credits (i.e., enrollment in 3 credit hours rather than 1 credit hour
would require additional assignments and/or an examination). If the
MA students in these courses need to be enrolled in 3 credit hours,
the following notation can be included with the course listing:  ‘MAstudents must choose the 3 credit option for enrollment in this course’. ”
Please note that courses to be included in this MA program will require
students choosing the 3-credit option.
School of Law - Classes Offered at the John Felice Rome Center
Code Title Hours
PLAW 101 Comparative and Ethical Lawyering for the Rule of
Law3PLAW 102History, Theory and Practice of Rule of Law for
Development3
PLAW 103 Theory and Practice of Assessments in Rule of
Law Advising2PLAW 104International Development Architecture3
PLAW 105 Sustainable Development Through International
Commerce and Investment2PLAW 106Design of Rule of Law Programs and Proposal
Preparation2
PLAW 107 Rule of Law in Conflict Prevention and
Peacebuilding2PLAW 108Legal Systems and Methods3
PLAW 250 Research and Writing on the Rule of Law 3PLAW 907Rule of Law Project Management, Monitoring &
Evaluation3
Parkinson School of Health Sciences and Public Health
Code Title Hours
MPBH 400 Determinants of Population Health 3MPBH 414Introduction to Global Health3
MPBH 417 Global Maternal and Child Health 3MPBH 422Population Health Planning & Management3
MPBH 424 Health Economics and Healthcare Financing 3MPBH 432Health Impact Assessment3
Quinlan School of Business
Code Title Hours
ECON 424 International Business Economics 3FINC 455International Financial Management3
HRER 422 Global HR Management 3HRER 502Global Employment Relations3
MARK 465 International Marketing 3MARK 461Research Methods in Marketing3
MGMT 446 International Business Ethics 3SCMG 486Global Logistics3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
 English Subject Area
Course Title Hours
Year One
Fall
TLSC 300A Professional Learning Communities 0

--- Page 1307 ---
1338  Secondary Education/International Affairs (BSEd/MA)TLSC 110The Profession and Our Program (TLLSC)1
TLSC 120 Bringing Language, Learning &
Development Theory into Practice2TLSC 130Sequence One: 130 Community Immersion1
UCWR 110 Writing Responsibly 3COREHistorical Knowledge Tier I3
ENGL English Major Course 3UNIV 101First Year Seminar1Submit required documentation and background check prior to
program entry  Hours14
Spring
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities 1TLSC 140Teaching, Learning and Leading for Social
Justice1
TLSC 150 Constructive Learning Environments For
Diverse Students1TLSC 160Analyzing Culturally-Responsive Classroom
Instruction1
Select one of the following: 3ENGL 317The Writing of Poetry 
ENGL 318 The Writing of Fiction  ENGL 319Writing Creative Nonﬁction 
ENGL English Major Course 3COREQuantitative3CORETheological & Religious Studies Tier I3 Hours16
Year Two
Fall
TLSC 300A Professional Learning Communities 0TLSC 210Educational Policy For Diverse Students2
TLSC 221 Individualized Instruction and Assessment
for Diverse Learners2TLSC 222Authentic Assessment and Instruction for
Bilingual Learners2
CIEP 350 Adolescent Literature 13ENGL 293Advanced Writing3
ELPS 219 History of American Education 3COREScientiﬁc Tier I3 Hours18
SpringTLSC 300BProfessional Learning Communities1
ENGL 303 Grammar: Principles & Pedagogy 3ENGL 293Advanced Writing3
CORE Philosophical Knowledge Tier I 3COREScientiﬁc Tier II3CORESocietal Knowledge Tier I3 Hours16
Year Three
Fall
TLSC 300A Professional Learning Communities 0TLSC 310Language and Literacy for Diverse
Students2TLSC 320 Using Classroom Data in a Collaborative
Env to Advance Student Achievement2TLSC 330Discipline-Speciﬁc Literacy for Diverse
Students2
CORE Societal Tier II 3ENGLEnglish Major Course3
ENGL English Major Course 3LANGForeign Language 101-Level3Apply for One-Year internship by October 1  Hours18
Spring
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities 1TLSC 340Teaching and Learning in an Area of
Specialization2
TLSC 350 Teaching and Learning with a Global
Framework4ENGLEnglish Major Course3
ENGL English Major Course 3CORETheological and Religious Studies Tier II3
LANG Foreign Language 102-Level 3Take English Language Arts Content Area Test from the IL
Licensure Testing Service  Hours19
Year Four
FallTLSC 300AProfessional Learning Communities0
TLSC 360 Developing Rigorous and Relevant
Instruction & Assessment3TLSC 370Design&Implement Rigorous&Rlvnt
Instrctn&Assmt: Tching Perform Assmt
Prep3
ELPS 302 Philosophy of Education 3ENGLEnglish Major Course3
ENGL English Major Course 3COREEthics3Apply for May Graduation in LOCUS by October 1  Hours18
Spring
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities 1TLSC 380Tching, Lrning & Leading with Schools &
Communities Internship: Stud Tching6-12
Two (2) International Affairs Courses  26Must have passed English Language Arts Content Area Test prior
to Sequence 8 Student Teaching  Hours13-19
SummerTwo (2) International Affairs Courses  26 Hours6
Year Five
FallThree (3) International Affairs Courses  29 Hours9

--- Page 1308 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1339
SpringThree (3) International Affairs Courses  29 Hours9 Total Hours156-162
1Secondary English section of CIEP 350 Adolescent Literature  is offered
in the Fall semester only.
2Students are expected to take two graduate-level courses in each
semester of their senior year and a total of six graduate-level courses
in their ﬁfth year. There is no required course sequence, but we strongly
suggest that students ﬁrst take the required courses ( PLSC 420
Comparative Political Systems , PLSC 430 Theories of International
Politics , and PLSC 475 Political Analysis I ) whenever they are offered
before taking elective courses. ”
 English Department Requirements  (p. 404)
History Subject Area
Course Title Hours
Year One
Fall
TLSC 300A Professional Learning Communities 0TLSC 110The Profession and Our Program (TLLSC)1
TLSC 120 Bringing Language, Learning &
Development Theory into Practice2TLSC 130Sequence One: 130 Community Immersion1
UCWR 110 Writing Responsibly 3CORELiterary Knowledge & Experience Tier I3
HIST History Major Course 3UNIV 101First Year Seminar1Submit required documentation and background check prior to
program entry  Hours14
Spring
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities 1TLSC 140Teaching, Learning and Leading for Social
Justice1
TLSC 150 Constructive Learning Environments For
Diverse Students1TLSC 160Analyzing Culturally-Responsive Classroom
Instruction1
HIST History Major Course 3HISTHistory Major Course3
CORE Scientiﬁc Tier I 3CORETheological & Religious Studies Tier I3 Hours16
Year Two
FallTLSC 300AProfessional Learning Communities0
TLSC 210 Educational Policy For Diverse Students 2TLSC 221Individualized Instruction and Assessment
for Diverse Learners2
TLSC 222 Authentic Assessment and Instruction for
Bilingual Learners2HISTHistory Major Course3HIST History Major Course 3COREArtistic Knowledge3
Select one of the following: 3ENVS 218Biodiversity & Biogeography ENVS 283Environmental Sustainability  Hours18
Spring
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities 1HISTHistory Major Course3
HIST History Major Course 3COREPhilosophical Knowledge Tier I3
CORE Quantitative Analysis 3SOCL 101Society in a Global Age3LANGForeign Language 101-Level3 Hours19
Year Three
Fall
TLSC 300A Professional Learning Communities 0TLSC 310Language and Literacy for Diverse
Students2
TLSC 320 Using Classroom Data in a Collaborative
Env to Advance Student Achievement2TLSC 330Discipline-Speciﬁc Literacy for Diverse
Students2
PLSC 101 American Politics ( Tier II Societal ) 3HIST 299Historical Methods ( Writing Intensive )3
HIST History Major Course 3LANGForeign Language 102-Level3Apply for One-Year internship by October 1  Hours18
Spring
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities 1TLSC 340Teaching and Learning in an Area of
Specialization2
TLSC 350 Teaching and Learning with a Global
Framework4HISTHistory Major Course3
CORE Theological and Religious Studies Tier II 3COREEthics3Take Content Area Test in Social Science: History through the IL
Licensure Testing Service  Hours16
Year Four
Fall
TLSC 300A Professional Learning Communities 0TLSC 360Developing Rigorous and Relevant
Instruction & Assessment3
TLSC 370 Design&Implement Rigorous&Rlvnt
Instrctn&Assmt: Tching Perform Assmt
Prep3ELPS 302Philosophy of Education3
HIST History Major Course 3CORELiterary Tier II3

--- Page 1309 ---
1340  Secondary Education/International Affairs (BSEd/MA)
ECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics 3Apply for May Graduation in LOCUS by October 1  Hours18
SpringTLSC 300BProfessional Learning Communities1
TLSC 380 Tching, Lrning & Leading with Schools &
Communities Internship: Stud Tching6-12HIST 398History Internship3
One (1) International Affairs Courses  13Must have passed IL Content Area Exam prior to Sequence 8
Student Teaching  Hours13-19
SummerThree (3) International Affairs Courses  19 Hours9
Year Five
FallThree (3) International Affairs Courses  19 Hours9
SpringThree (3) International Affairs Courses  19 Hours9 Total Hours159-165
History Department Requirements  (p. 503)
Mathematics Subject Area
Course Title Hours
Year One
Fall
TLSC 300A Professional Learning Communities 0TLSC 110The Profession and Our Program (TLLSC)1
TLSC 120 Bringing Language, Learning &
Development Theory into Practice2TLSC 130Sequence One: 130 Community Immersion1
UCWR 110 Writing Responsibly 3MATH 161Calculus I4
CORE Literary Knowledge & Experience Tier I 3UNIV 101First Year Seminar1Submit required documentation and background check prior to
program entry  Hours15
Spring
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities 1TLSC 140Teaching, Learning and Leading for Social
Justice1
TLSC 150 Constructive Learning Environments For
Diverse Students1TLSC 160Analyzing Culturally-Responsive Classroom
Instruction1
MATH 162 Calculus II 4COMP 170Introduction to Object-Oriented
Programming3
CORE Scientiﬁc Tier I 3CORETheological & Religious Studies Tier I3 Hours17
Year Two
FallTLSC 300AProfessional Learning Communities0
TLSC 210 Educational Policy For Diverse Students 2TLSC 221Individualized Instruction and Assessment
for Diverse Learners2
TLSC 222 Authentic Assessment and Instruction for
Bilingual Learners2MATH 212Linear Algebra3
MATH 201 Introduction to Discrete Mathematics &
Number Theory3ELPS 219History of American Education3COREScientiﬁc Tier II3 Hours18
Spring
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities 1MATH 263Multivariable Calculus4
Select one of the following: 3MATH 318Combinatorics 1 
STAT 203 Introduction to Probability & Statistics  COREPhilosophical Knowledge Tier I3
CORE Historical Knowledge Tier I 3CORESocietal Knowledge Tier I3COREArtistic Knowledge3 Hours20
Year Three
Fall
TLSC 300A Professional Learning Communities 0TLSC 310Language and Literacy for Diverse
Students2
TLSC 320 Using Classroom Data in a Collaborative
Env to Advance Student Achievement2TLSC 330Discipline-Speciﬁc Literacy for Diverse
Students2
CORE Societal Tier II 3Select one of the following:3
MATH 301 History of Mathematics  MATH 344Geometry 2 
MATH 360 Introduction to Game Theory 3LANGForeign Language 101-Level3Apply for One-Year internship by October 1  Hours18
Spring
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities 1TLSC 340Teaching and Learning in an Area of
Specialization2
TLSC 350 Teaching and Learning with a Global
Framework4Select one of the following:3
MATH 318 Combinatorics 1 STAT 203Introduction to Probability & Statistics 

--- Page 1310 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1341
MATH 313 Abstract Algebra 3CORETheological and Religious Studies Tier II3
LANG Foreign Language 102-Level 3Take IL Content Area Test in Mathematics through the IL
Licensure Testing Service  Hours19
Year Four
FallTLSC 300AProfessional Learning Communities0
TLSC 360 Developing Rigorous and Relevant
Instruction & Assessment3TLSC 370Design&Implement Rigorous&Rlvnt
Instrctn&Assmt: Tching Perform Assmt
Prep3
ELPS 302 Philosophy of Education 3Select one of the following:3
MATH 301 History of Mathematics  MATH 344Geometry 2 
CORE Literary Tier II 3COREEthics3Apply for May Graduation in LOCUS by October 1  Hours18
Spring
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities 1TLSC 380Tching, Lrning & Leading with Schools
& Communities Internship: Stud Tching
(Engaged Learning )6-12
Two (2) International Affairs Courses  36Must have passed Mathematics Content Area Test prior to
Sequence 8 Student Teaching  Hours13-19
SummerTwo (2) International Affairs Courses  36 Hours6
Year Five
FallThree (3) International Affairs Courses  39 Hours9
SpringThree (3) International Affairs Courses  39 Hours9 Total Hours162-168
1MATH 318 Combinatorics  is offered every two years.  If offered this
term, you must take it.
2MATH 301 History of Mathematics  and MATH 344 Geometry  are
offered during alternate fall semesters.
3Students are expected to take two graduate-level courses in each
semester of their senior year and a total of six graduate-level courses
in their ﬁfth year. There is no required course sequence, but we strongly
suggest that students ﬁrst take the required courses ( PLSC 420
Comparative Political Systems , PLSC 430 Theories of International
Politics , and PLSC 475 Political Analysis I ) whenever they are offered
before taking elective courses. Mathematics Department Requirements  (p. 532)
Political Science Subject Area
Course Title Hours
Year One
Fall
TLSC 300A Professional Learning Communities 0TLSC 110The Profession and Our Program (TLLSC)1
TLSC 120 Bringing Language, Learning &
Development Theory into Practice2TLSC 130Sequence One: 130 Community Immersion1Submit required documentation and background check prior to
program entry  Hours4
Spring
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities 1TLSC 140Teaching, Learning and Leading for Social
Justice1
TLSC 150 Constructive Learning Environments For
Diverse Students1TLSC 160Analyzing Culturally-Responsive Classroom
Instruction1 Hours4
Year Two
FallTLSC 300AProfessional Learning Communities0
TLSC 210 Educational Policy For Diverse Students 2TLSC 221Individualized Instruction and Assessment
for Diverse Learners2TLSC 222Authentic Assessment and Instruction for
Bilingual Learners2 Hours6
SpringTLSC 300BProfessional Learning Communities1 Hours1
Year Three
Fall
TLSC 300A Professional Learning Communities 0TLSC 310Language and Literacy for Diverse
Students2
TLSC 320 Using Classroom Data in a Collaborative
Env to Advance Student Achievement2TLSC 330Discipline-Speciﬁc Literacy for Diverse
Students2Apply for One-Year internship by October 1  Hours6
Spring
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities 1TLSC 340Teaching and Learning in an Area of
Specialization2
TLSC 350 Teaching and Learning with a Global
Framework4Take IL Content Area Test through the IL Licensure Testing
Service  Hours7

--- Page 1311 ---
1342  Secondary Education/International Affairs (BSEd/MA)
Year Four
FallTLSC 300AProfessional Learning Communities0
TLSC 360 Developing Rigorous and Relevant
Instruction & Assessment3TLSC 370Design&Implement Rigorous&Rlvnt
Instrctn&Assmt: Tching Perform Assmt
Prep3
ELPS 302 Philosophy of Education 3Apply for May Graduation in LOCUS by October 1  Hours9
SpringTLSC 300BProfessional Learning Communities1
TLSC 380 Tching, Lrning & Leading with Schools
& Communities Internship: Stud Tching
(Engaged Learning )6-12Two (2) International Affairs Courses  16Must have passed Content Area Test prior to Sequence 8 Student
Teaching  Hours13-19
SummerTwo (2) International Affairs Courses  16 Hours6
Year Five
FallThree (3) International Affairs Courses  19 Hours9
SpringThree (3) International Affairs Courses  19 Hours9 Total Hours74-80
1Students are expected to take two graduate-level courses in each
semester of their senior year and a total of six graduate-level courses
in their ﬁfth year. There is no required course sequence, but we strongly
suggest that students ﬁrst take the required courses ( PLSC 420
Comparative Political Systems , PLSC 430 Theories of International
Politics , and PLSC 475 Political Analysis I ) whenever they are offered
before taking elective courses.
Political Science Department Requirements  (p. 638)
Psychology Subject Area
Course Title Hours
Year One
Fall
TLSC 300A Professional Learning Communities 0TLSC 110The Profession and Our Program (TLLSC)1
TLSC 120 Bringing Language, Learning &
Development Theory into Practice2TLSC 130Sequence One: 130 Community Immersion1Submit required documentation and background check prior to
program entry  Hours4Spring
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities 1TLSC 140Teaching, Learning and Leading for Social
Justice1
TLSC 150 Constructive Learning Environments For
Diverse Students1TLSC 160Analyzing Culturally-Responsive Classroom
Instruction1 Hours4
Year Two
FallTLSC 300AProfessional Learning Communities0
TLSC 210 Educational Policy For Diverse Students 2TLSC 221Individualized Instruction and Assessment
for Diverse Learners2TLSC 222Authentic Assessment and Instruction for
Bilingual Learners2 Hours6
SpringTLSC 300BProfessional Learning Communities1 Hours1
Year Three
Fall
TLSC 300A Professional Learning Communities 0TLSC 310Language and Literacy for Diverse
Students2
TLSC 320 Using Classroom Data in a Collaborative
Env to Advance Student Achievement2TLSC 330Discipline-Speciﬁc Literacy for Diverse
Students2Apply for One-Year internship by October 1  Hours6
Spring
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities 1TLSC 340Teaching and Learning in an Area of
Specialization2
TLSC 350 Teaching and Learning with a Global
Framework4Take IL Content Area Test through the IL Licensure Testing
Service  Hours7
Year Four
FallTLSC 300AProfessional Learning Communities0
TLSC 360 Developing Rigorous and Relevant
Instruction & Assessment3TLSC 370Design&Implement Rigorous&Rlvnt
Instrctn&Assmt: Tching Perform Assmt
Prep3
ELPS 302 Philosophy of Education 3Apply for May Graduation in LOCUS by October 1  Hours9
SpringTLSC 300BProfessional Learning Communities1

--- Page 1312 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1343
TLSC 380 Tching, Lrning & Leading with Schools
& Communities Internship: Stud Tching
(Engaged Learning )6-12Two (2) International Affairs Courses  16Must have passed Content Area Test prior to Sequence 8 Student
Teaching  Hours13-19
SummerTwo (2) International Affairs Courses  16 Hours6
Year Five
FallThree (3) International Affairs Courses  19 Hours9
SpringThree (3) International Affairs Courses  19 Hours9 Total Hours74-80
1Students are expected to take two graduate-level courses in each
semester of their senior year and a total of six graduate-level courses
in their ﬁfth year. There is no required course sequence, but we strongly
suggest that students ﬁrst take the required courses ( PLSC 420
Comparative Political Systems , PLSC 430 Theories of International
Politics , and PLSC 475 Political Analysis I ) whenever they are offered
before taking elective courses.
Psychology Department Requirements  (p. 650)
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3

--- Page 1313 ---
1344  Social Work (BSW/MSW)
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering theoption of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
Students will graduate from our program having achieved:
•a foundation for understanding and critiquing research related to
International Affairs, including methods training that leverages both
qualitative and quantitative data [International Affairs]
•knowledge of the principal theories of comparative politics and
international relations, as well as the key areas of research in these
two subﬁelds [International Affairs]
•an interdisciplinary understanding and appreciation of International
Affairs through coursework available within eight different
departments in the College of Arts and Sciences and four additional
Schools at Loyola [International Affairs]
•enhanced writing and critical thinking skills and dispositions through
class-based projects and a capstone experience [International Affairs]
•strengthened methods, research, or writing skills tailored to students
interests with advanced methods courses, language training, or the
writing of a master’s thesis. [International Affairs]
•You'll have accrued the equivalent of one year of full-time teaching
experience through all the hands-on, experiential learning
opportunities in Chicago's classrooms and community organizations,
so you will be ready to be at the head of your own classroom. With
the foundational knowledge from your Loyola education, you will
utilize theories, data, and research practices when making decisions
in your classroom and for your students and when assessing the
effectiveness of teaching on learning. [Secondary Education]
Social Work (BSW/MSW)
The School of Social Work Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's program
offers an excellent social work curriculum with a strong liberal arts base,
and a wide range of opportunities for practical experience.
This program allows BSW students to complete their undergraduate
degree in four years, and their MSW degree in just one year.
Related Programs
Major
•Social Work (BSW)  (p. 951)
Master's
•Social Work (MSW)  (p. 2148 )
Minor
•Social Work Minor  (p. 954)
Curriculum
During the ﬁfth year, students will select one of two specializations
offered in the MSW program. Students can choose from the Micro

--- Page 1314 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1345
Practice Specialization or the Leadership, Mezzo, and Macro Practice
Specialization.
Note: All BSW students must submit an application for the ﬁve-year
program in their senior year.
Code Title Hours
BSW Requirements  1SOWK 200Introduction to Social Work3
SOWK 301 Practice Skills with Individuals and Families 3SOWK 303Group Work Practice in Social Work: Micro/Mezzo/
Macro3
SOWK 305 Life Span Development, Human Behavior, Trauma,
& Theory3SOWK 307Social Work Policy and Community Intervention3
SOWK 308 Integrated Micro, Mezzo, and Macro Practice 23
or SOWK 302 Integrated Micro/Mezzo/Macro Theory and PracticeSOWK 330Internship I and Simulated Experience3.5
SOWK 340 Internship II and Simulated Experience 3.5SOWK 350Preparation for Practice3
SOWK 362 Integrative Seminar 1SOWK 370Power, Oppression, Privilege, and Social Justice3
SOWK 380 Assessment of Client Concerns in Context 3SOWK 390Research and Evaluation in Social Work Practice3
MSW RequirementsSpecialized CoursesCourses Required of All StudentsSOWK 680Advanced Micro-Level Practice3
SOWK 682 Advanced Mezzo and Micro Practice 23
or SOWK 681 Advanced Mezzo & Macro PracticeSWII 632Internship Instruction III & Simulated Experiences0.5
SWII 632S Integrative Seminar 1SWII 633Internship Instruction IV & Simulated Experiences0.5
Specializations & Tracks 9All students must choose a Specialization and Track.Micro Practice SpecializationSchools/Professional Educator's License (PEL) TrackCIEP 401 The Exceptional ChildSOWK 609ASchool Social Work Policy and Practice ISOWK 609B School Social Work Policy and Practice IICertiﬁed Alcohol and Other Drug Counselors (CADC) TrackSOWK 621 Clinical Practice in AddictionSOWK 622Substance Abuse Treatment in GroupsSOWK 722 Introduction to Alcohol and Other Drug DisordersMigration Studies TrackSOWK 730 Immigration Dynamics and U.S. Social PolicySOWK 731Social Work Practice with Refugees and
ImmigrantsSOWK 732 Migration, Social Justice, and Human RightsAdvanced Clinical Practice TrackSee Course Options for the Advanced Clinical TrackSee Course Options for the Advanced Clinical Track  3Leadership, Mezzo & Macro Practice (LMMP) SpecializationLeadership, Community, Advocacy, and Policy (LCAP) TrackSOWK 650 Leadership & Supervision in Service OrganizationsSOWK 652Organizations, Program Development, and
EvaluationSOWK 653 Community Organizing and Policy PracticeElectivesAll students will choose to take two electives. Any 600 or 700-level
course may be considered an elective.6Total Hours61
115 credit hours are required for social science courses.
(PSYC 101  General Psychology , SOCL 101  Society in a Global Age  + 9
credits of social science electives)
2Students who have completed SOWK 302  should expect to take
SOWK 681  in their MSW year.  Students who have completed
SOWK 308  should expect to take SOWK 682  in their MSW year. 
SOWK 308  will begin to be offered in Fall 2025 and later.
3Course Options  (p. 2194 )
Internship
Students complete one internship during the ﬁfth year for a total of 600
hours. The internship is aligned with the student’s area of specialization.
Specializations and Tracks
The Master of Social Work program have the following specialization and
track options:
•Leadership, Mezzo, and Macro Practice (LMMP) Specialization
•Leadership, Community, Advocacy, and Policy (LCAP) Track
(p. 2191 )
•Micro Practice Specialization
•Advanced Clinical Practice Track  (p. 2194 )
•Certiﬁed Alcohol and Other Drugs Counselor Training Program
(CADC) Track  (p. 2197 )
•Migration Studies Track  (p. 2200 )
•Schools/Professional Educator License (PEL) Track  (p. 2203 )
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Micro Practice Specialization
Course Title Hours
Year 1
FallSOWK 200Introduction to Social Work ( Freshman/
Sophomore/Junior year )3 Hours3
Year 2
FallSOWK 370Power, Oppression, Privilege, and Social
Justice ( Sophomore/Junior year )3 Hours3

--- Page 1315 ---
1346  Social Work (BSW/MSW)
Year 3
Fall
SOWK 305 Life Span Development, Human Behavior,
Trauma, & Theory3SOWK 350Preparation for Practice3 Hours6
SpringSOWK 307Social Work Policy and Community
Intervention3 Hours3
Year 4
FallSOWK 301Practice Skills with Individuals and
Families3
SOWK 303 Group Work Practice in Social Work: Micro/
Mezzo/Macro3SOWK 330Internship I and Simulated Experience3.5
SOWK 362 Integrative Seminar 1SOWK 380Assessment of Client Concerns in Context3 Hours13.5
SpringSOWK 308Integrated Micro, Mezzo, and Macro
Practice3
SOWK 340 Internship II and Simulated Experience 3.5SOWK 390Research and Evaluation in Social Work
Practice3 Hours9.5
Year 5
FallSOWK 680Advanced Micro-Level Practice3
SWII 632 Internship Instruction III & Simulated
Experiences0.5SWII 632SIntegrative Seminar1
Elective 3Track Course3Track Course3 Hours13.5
Spring
SOWK 682 Advanced Mezzo and Micro Practice 3SWII 633Internship Instruction IV & Simulated
Experiences0.5
Track Course 3Elective3 Hours9.5 Total Hours61
Leadership, Mezzo, & Macro Practice (LMMP) Specialization
Course Title Hours
Year 1
FallSOWK 200Introduction to Social Work ( Freshman/
Sophomore/Junior year )3 Hours3Year 2
FallSOWK 370Power, Oppression, Privilege, and Social
Justice ( Sophomore/Junior year )3 Hours3
Year 3
Fall
SOWK 305 Life Span Development, Human Behavior,
Trauma, & Theory3SOWK 350Preparation for Practice3 Hours6
SpringSOWK 307Social Work Policy and Community
Intervention3 Hours3
Year 4
FallSOWK 301Practice Skills with Individuals and
Families3
SOWK 303 Group Work Practice in Social Work: Micro/
Mezzo/Macro3SOWK 330Internship I and Simulated Experience3.5
SOWK 362 Integrative Seminar 1SOWK 380Assessment of Client Concerns in Context3 Hours13.5
SpringSOWK 302Integrated Micro/Mezzo/Macro Theory and
Practice3
SOWK 340 Internship II and Simulated Experience 3.5SOWK 390Research and Evaluation in Social Work
Practice3 Hours9.5
Year 5
FallSOWK 652Organizations, Program Development, and
Evaluation3
SOWK 653 Community Organizing and Policy Practice 3SOWK 681Advanced Mezzo & Macro Practice3
SWII 632 Internship Instruction III & Simulated
Experiences0.5SWII 632SIntegrative Seminar1 Hours10.5
SpringSOWK 650Leadership & Supervision in Service
Organizations3
SOWK 680 Advanced Micro-Level Practice 3SWII 631Field Instruction IV & Simulated Experience1
Elective 3Elective3 Hours13 Total Hours61.5

--- Page 1316 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1347
Additional Undergraduate Graduation
Requirements
All Undergraduate students are required to complete the University Core,
at least one Engaged Learning course, and UNIV 101.  SCPS stude nts are
not required to take UNIV 101.  Nursing students in the Accelerated BSN
program are not required to take core or UNIV 101.  You can ﬁnd more
information in the University Requirements  (p. 1405 ) area.
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁciallymatriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while

--- Page 1317 ---
1348  Social Work (BSW/MSW)
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
MSW Program Generalist Learning
Outcomes
Competency 1: Demonstrate Ethical and Professional
Behavior
Social workers understand the value base of the profession and its
ethical standards, as well as relevant policies, laws, and regulations that
may affect practice with individuals, families, groups, organizations, and
communities. Social workers understand that ethics are informed by
principles of  human rights and apply them toward realizing social, racial,
economic, and environmental justice in their practice. Social workersunderstand frameworks of ethical decision making and apply principles
of critical thinking to those frameworks in practice, research, and policy
arenas.
Social workers recognize and manage personal values and the distinction
between personal and professional values. Social workers understand
how  their evolving worldview, personal experiences, and affective
reactions influence their professional judgment and behavior. Social
workers take  measures to care for themselves professionally and
personally, understanding that self-care is paramount for competent and
ethical social work  practice. Social workers use rights-based, anti- racist,
and anti-oppressive lenses to understand and critique the profession’s
history, mission,  roles, and responsibilities and recognize historical and
current contexts of oppression in shaping institutions and social work.
Social workers understand the role of other professionals when engaged
in interprofessional practice. Social workers recognize the importance of
lifelong learning and  are committed to continually updating their skills to
ensure relevant and effective practice. Social workers understand digital
technology and the ethical use of technology in social work practice.
Social workers:
1.make ethical decisions by applying the standards of the National
Association of Social Workers Code of Ethics, relevant laws and
regulations, models for ethical decision making, ethical conduct of
research, and additional codes of ethics within the profession as
appropriate to the context;
2.demonstrate professional behavior; appearance; and oral, written, and
electronic communication;
3.use technology ethically and appropriately to facilitate practice
outcomes; and
4.use supervision and consultation to guide professional judgment and
behavior.
Competency 2: Advance Human Rights and Social,
Racial, Economic, and Environmental Justice
Social workers understand that every person regardless of position in
society has fundamental human rights. Social workers are knowledgeable
about the global intersecting and ongoing injustices throughout history
that result in oppression and racism, including social work’s role and
response.
Social workers critically evaluate the distribution of power and privilege
in society in order to promote social, racial, economic, and environmental
justice by reducing inequities and ensuring dignity and respect for
all. Social workers advocate for and engage in strategies to eliminate
oppressive structural barriers to ensure that social resources, rights,
and responsibilities are distributed equitably, and that civil, political,
economic, social, and cultural human rights are protected.
Social workers:
1.advocate for human rights at the individual, family, group,
organizational, and community system levels; and
2.engage in practices that advance human rights to promote social,
racial, economic, and environmental justice.
Competency 3: Engage Anti-Racism, Diversity, Equity,
and Inclusion (ADEI) in Practice
Social workers understand how racism and oppression shape human
experiences and how these two constructs influence practice at the
individual, family, group, organizational, and community levels and in

--- Page 1318 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1349
policy and research. Social workers understand the pervasive impact of
White supremacy  and privilege and use their knowledge, awareness, and
skills to engage in anti-racist practice. Social workers understand how
diversity and intersectionality shape human experiences and identity
development and affect equity and inclusion. The dimensions of diversity
are understood as the intersectionality of factors including but not limited
to age, caste, class, color, culture, disability and ability, ethnicity, gender,
gender identity and expression, generational status, immigration status,
legal status, marital status, political ideology, race, nationality, religion
and spirituality, sex, sexual orientation, and tribal sovereign status. Social
workers understand that this intersectionality means that a person’s
life experiences may include oppression, poverty, marginalization, and
alienation  as well as privilege and power. Social workers understand
the societal and historical roots of social and racial injustices and
the forms and mechanisms of oppression and discrimination. Social
workers understand cultural humility and recognize the extent to which
a culture’s structures and values, including social, economic, political,
racial, technological, and cultural exclusions, may create privilege and
power resulting in systemic oppression.
Social workers:
1.demonstrate anti-racist and anti-oppressive social work practice at
the individual, family, group, organizational, community, research, and
policy levels; and
2.demonstrate cultural humility by applying critical reflection,
self-awareness, and self- regulation to manage the influence
of bias, power, privilege, and values in working with clients and
constituencies, acknowledging them as experts of their own lived
experiences.
Competency 4: Engage in Practice-informed Research
and Research-informed Practice
Social workers use ethical, culturally informed, anti-racist, and anti-
oppressive approaches in conducting research and building knowledge.
Social workers use research to inform their practice decision making
and articulate how their practice experience informs research and
evaluation decisions. Social workers critically evaluate and critique
current, empirically sound research to inform decisions pertaining to
practice, policy, and programs. Social workers understand the inherent
bias in research and evaluate design, analysis, and interpretation
using an anti-racist and anti-oppressive perspective. Social workers
know how to access, critique, and synthesize the current literature to
develop appropriate research questions and hypotheses. Social workers
demonstrate knowledge and skills regarding qualitative and quantitative
research methods and analysis, and they interpret data derived from
these methods. Social workers demonstrate knowledge about methods
to assess reliability and validity in social work research. Social workers
can articulate and share research ﬁndings in ways that are usable to a
variety of clients and constituencies. Social workers understand the value
of evidence derived from interprofessional and diverse research methods,
approaches, and sources.
Social workers:
1.apply research ﬁndings to inform and improve practice, policy, and
programs; and
2.identify ethical, culturally informed, anti-racist, and anti-op pressive
strategies that address inherent biases for use in quantitative and
qualitative research methods to advance the purposes of social work.Competency 5: Engage in Policy Practice
Social workers identify social policy at the local, state, federal, and global
level that affect well-being, human rights and justice, service delivery,
and access to social services. Social workers recognize the historical,
social, racial, cultural, economic, organizational, environmental, and
global influences that affect social policy. Social workers understand
and critique the history and current structures of social policies and
services and the role of policy in service delivery through rights- based,
anti-oppressive, and anti-racist lenses. Social workers influence policy
formulation, analysis, implementation, and evaluation within their
practice settings with individuals, families, groups, organizations, and
communities. Social workers actively engage in and advocate for anti-
racist and anti-oppressive policy practice to effect change in those
settings.
Social workers:
1.use social justice, anti-racist, and anti-oppressive lenses to assess
how social welfare policies affect the delivery of and access to social
services; and
2.apply critical thinking to analyze, formulate, and advocate for
policies that advance human rights and social, racial, economic, and
environmental justice.
Competency 6: Engage with Individuals, Families,
Groups, Organizations, and Communities
Social workers understand that engagement is an ongoing component of
the dynamic and interactive process of social work practice with and on
behalf of individuals, families, groups, organizations, and communities.
Social workers value the importance of human relationships. Social
workers understand theories of human behavior and person-in-
environment and critically evaluate and apply this knowledge to facilitate
engagement with clients and constituencies, including individuals,
families, groups, organizations, and communities. Social workers are
self-reflective and understand how bias, power, and privilege as well as
their personal values and personal experiences may affect their ability
to engage effectively with diverse clients and constituencies. Social
workers use the principles of interprofessional collaboration to facilitate
engagement with clients, constituencies, and other professionals as
appropriate.
Social workers:
1.apply knowledge of human behavior and person-in-environment, as
well as interprofessional conceptual frameworks, to engage with
clients and constituencies; and
2.use empathy, reflection, and interpersonal skills to engage in
culturally responsive practice with clients and constituencies.
Competency 7: Assess Individuals, Families, Groups,
Organizations, and Communities
Social workers understand that assessment is an ongoing component
of the dynamic and interactive process of social work practice. Social
workers understand theories of human behavior and person-in-
environment, as well as interprofessional conceptual frameworks, and
they critically evaluate and apply this knowledge in culturally responsive
assessment with clients and constituencies, including individuals,
families, groups, organizations, and communities. Assessment
involves a collaborative process of deﬁning presenting challenges and
identifying strengths with individuals, families, groups, organizations,
and communities to develop a mutually agreed-upon plan. Social

--- Page 1319 ---
1350  Social Work (BSW/MSW)
workers recognize the implications of the larger practice context in the
assessment process and use interprofessional collaboration in this
process. Social workers are self-reflective and understand how bias,
power, privilege, and their personal values and experiences may affect
their assessment and decision making.
Social workers:
1.apply theories of human behavior and person-in-environment, as
well as other culturally responsive and interprofessional conceptual
frameworks, when assessing clients and constituencies; and
2.demonstrate respect for client self-determination during the
assessment process by collaborating with clients and constituencies
in developing a mutually agreed-upon plan.
Competency 8: Intervene with Individuals, Families,
Groups, Organizations, and Communities
Social workers understand that intervention is an ongoing component
of the dynamic and interactive process of social work practice. Social
workers understand theories of human behavior, person-in-environment,
and other interprofessional conceptual frameworks, and they critically
evaluate and apply this knowledge in selecting culturally responsive
interventions with clients  and constituencies, including individuals,
families, groups, organizations, and communities. Social workers
understand methods of identifying, analyzing, and implementing
evidence-informed interventions and participate in interprofessional
collaboration to achieve client and constituency goals. Social workers
facilitate effective transitions and endings.
Social workers:
1.engage with clients and constituencies to critically choose and
implement culturally responsive, evidence-informed interventions to
achieve client and constituency goals; and
2.incorporate culturally responsive methods to negotiate, mediate, and
advocate with and on behalf of clients and constituencies.
Competency 9: Evaluate Practice with Individuals,
Families, Groups, Organizations, and Communities
Social workers understand that evaluation is an ongoing component
of the dynamic and interactive process of social work practice with
and on behalf of diverse individuals, families, groups, organizations,
and communities. Social workers evaluate processes and outcomes
to increase practice, policy, and service delivery effectiveness. Social
workers apply anti-racist and anti-oppressive perspectives in evaluating
outcomes. Social workers understand theories of human behavior
and person-in-environment, as well as interprofessional conceptual
frameworks,  and critically evaluate and apply this knowledge in
evaluating outcomes. Social workers use qualitative and quantitative
methods for evaluating outcomes and practice effectiveness.
Social workers:
1.select and use culturally responsive methods for evaluation of
outcomes; and
2.critically analyze outcomes and apply evaluation ﬁndings to
improve practice effectiveness with individuals, families, groups,
organizations, and communities.MSW Program Specialized Micro Learning
Outcomes
Competency 1: Demonstrate Ethical and Professional
Behavior
Social workers understand the value base of the profession and its
ethical standards, as well as relevant policies, laws, and regulations that
may affect practice with individuals, families, groups, organizations, and
communities. Social workers understand that ethics are informed by
principles of human rights and apply them toward realizing social, racial,
economic, and environmental justice in their practice. Social workers
understand frameworks of ethical decision making and apply principles
of critical thinking to those frameworks in practice, research, and policy
arenas. Social workers recognize and manage personal values and the
distinction between personal and professional values. Social workers
understand how their evolving worldview, personal experiences, and
affective reactions influence their professional judgment and behavior.
Social workers take measures to care for themselves professionally and
personally, understanding that self-care is paramount for competent and
ethical social work practice. Social workers use rights-based, antiracist,
and anti-oppressive lenses to understand and critique the profession’s
history, mission, roles, and responsibilities and recognize historical and
current contexts of oppression in shaping institutions and social work.
Social workers understand the role of other professionals when engaged
in interprofessional practice. Social workers recognize the importance of
lifelong learning and are committed to continually updating their skills to
ensure relevant and effective practice. Social workers understand digital
technology and the ethical use of technology in social work practice.
Social workers:
•Demonstrate professional use of self as a social worker, reflecting
knowledge of personal professional strengths, limitations, challenges,
and cooperatively resolving interpersonal conflicts.  
•Demonstrate ethical use of advanced modalities in practice and any
related technological applications in the micro ﬁeld of social work.
•Recognize and manage ethical violations and resolve conflicting
ethical obligations.  
Competency 2:  Advance Human Rights and Social,
Racial, Economic, and Environmental Justice
Social workers understand that every person regardless of position in
society has fundamental human rights. Social workers are knowledgeable
about the global intersecting and ongoing injustices throughout history
that result in oppression and racism, including social work’s role and
response. Social workers critically evaluate the distribution of power
and privilege in society in order to promote social, racial, economic, and
environmental justice by reducing inequities and ensuring dignity and
respect for all. Social workers advocate for and engage in strategies to
eliminate oppressive structural barriers to ensure that social resources,
rights, and responsibilities are distributed equitably and that civil,
political, economic, social, and cultural human rights are protected.
Social workers:
•Articulate human rights violations the client and client’s system are
experiencing, including environmental and economic issues that
endanger the health of the client system.
•Demonstrate understanding of the impact of intersectionality of
marginalized identities, systemic racism, and associated oppressions
and plan practice accordingly.

--- Page 1320 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1351
•Demonstrate ways in which social workers can advocate for human
rights at the individual, family, group, organizational, and community
system levels as it relates to the micro ﬁeld of social work practice
Competency 3:  Engage in Anti-racism, Diversity, Equity,
and Inclusion (ADEI) in Practice
Social workers understand how racism and oppression shape human
experiences and how these two constructs influence practice at the
individual, family, group, organizational, and community levels and in
policy and research. Social workers understand the pervasive impact of
White supremacy and privilege and use their knowledge, awareness, and
skills to engage in anti-racist practice. Social workers understand how
diversity and intersectionality shape human experiences and identity
development and affect equity and inclusion. The dimensions of diversity
are understood as the intersectionality of factors including but not limited
to age, caste, class, color, culture, disability and ability, ethnicity, gender,
gender identity and expression, generational status, immigration status,
legal status, marital status, political ideology, race, nationality, religion
and spirituality, sex, sexual orientation, and tribal sovereign status. Social
workers understand that this intersectionality means that a person’s
life experiences may include oppression, poverty, marginalization, and
alienation as well as privilege and power. Social workers understand
the societal and historical roots of social and racial injustices and
the forms and mechanisms of oppression and discrimination. Social
workers understand cultural humility and recognize the extent to which
a culture’s structures and values, including social, economic, political,
racial, technological, and cultural exclusions, may create privilege and
power resulting in systemic oppression.
Social workers:
•Understand and demonstrate an understanding of anti-racism
practice at the individual, group, organizational, community, research,
and policy levels that will allow for diversity, equity, and inclusion
practice in the micro-level ﬁeld of social work. 
•Demonstrate an understanding of discrimination patterns in society
and how micro-level oppression impacts micro-level social work
practice regarding race, class, gender, sexual orientation, gender
identity, ability, age, and any other social categories in which
oppression occurs.
•Demonstrate the ability to formulate how an anti-racist practice will
advance the client and client system’s human rights. 
Competency 4: Engage In Practice-Informed Research
and Research-Informed Practice  
Social workers use ethical, culturally informed, anti-racist, and anti-
oppressive approaches in conducting research and building knowledge.
Social workers use research to inform their practice decision making
and articulate how their practice experience informs research and
evaluation decisions. Social workers critically evaluate and critique
current, empirically sound research to inform decisions pertaining to
practice, policy, and programs. Social workers understand the inherent
bias in research and evaluate design, analysis, and interpretation
using an anti-racist and anti-oppressive perspective. Social workers
know how to access, critique, and synthesize the current literature to
develop appropriate research questions and hypotheses. Social workers
demonstrate knowledge and skills regarding qualitative and quantitative
research methods and analysis, and they interpret data derived from
these methods. Social workers demonstrate knowledge about methods
to assess reliability and validity in social work research. Social workers
can articulate and share research ﬁndings in ways that are usable to avariety of clients and constituencies. Social workers understand the value
of evidence derived from interprofessional and diverse research methods,
approaches, and sources.
Social workers:
•Demonstrate understanding of and be able to contribute to the
evaluation of social research regarding advanced micro practice. 
•Critically evaluate and select potential practice models relevant to the
client’s systems.  
•Use their experience from their internship or practicum placement to
identify real-life challenges and address the practical needs of clients
•Engage in partnerships with experienced social workers to help
bridge the gap between theory and practice and broaden knowledge
of social work practice as it relates to the micro ﬁeld of social work.
Competency 5: Engage in Policy Practice 
Social workers identify social policy at the local, state, federal, and global
level that affects wellbeing, human rights and justice, service delivery,
and access to social services. Social workers recognize the historical,
social, racial, cultural, economic, organizational, environmental, and
global influences that affect social policy. Social workers understand
and critique the history and current structures of social policies and
services and the role of policy in service delivery through rightsbased,
anti-oppressive, and anti-racist lenses. Social workers influence policy
formulation, analysis, implementation, and evaluation within their
practice settings with individuals, families, groups, organizations, and
communities. Social workers actively engage in and advocate for anti-
racist and anti-oppressive policy practice to effect change in those
settings.
Social workers:
•Communicate to stakeholders and policymakers the implications of
policies and policy change in the lives of clients.  
•Conduct and design a plan for organizational analysis and change,
working with relevant constituencies to evaluate interventions that
impact clients and communities utilizing best practice models
reflecting social work values, ethics, and the organization's mission.  
•Collect, maintain, interpret, and analyze data from both internal and
external organizational environments, the community of stakeholders,
and diverse client groups to identify and prioritize social problems.  
•Recognize how oppression and social injustice affect client groups,
organizations, and communities and intervene proactively for human
rights and justice.  
•Understand strategies and techniques for advocating at local, state,
and federal levels in policy development.  
Competency 6: Engage with Individuals, Families,
Groups, Organizations, and Communities  
Social workers understand that engagement is an ongoing component of
the dynamic and interactive process of social work practice with and on
behalf of individuals, families, groups, organizations, and communities.
Social workers value the importance of human relationships. Social
workers understand theories of human behavior and person-in-
environment and critically evaluate and apply this knowledge to facilitate
engagement with clients and constituencies, including individuals,
families, groups, organizations, and communities. Social workers are
self-reflective and understand how bias, power, and privilege as well as
their personal values and personal experiences may affect their ability

--- Page 1321 ---
1352  Social Work (BSW/MSW)
to engage effectively with diverse clients and constituencies. Social
workers use the principles of interprofessional collaboration to facilitate
engagement with clients, constituencies, and other professionals as
appropriate.
Social workers:
•Apply culturally appropriate resources available to assist with
problem-solving. 
•Recognize and describe self-reflective competency in identifying bias,
countertransference, and potential microaggressions when engaging
diverse client systems. 
•Implement and describe the use of reflective listening tools when
needed to engage and empower members of families and groups.  
Competency 7: Assess Individuals, Families, Groups,
Organizations, and Communities
Social workers understand that assessment is an ongoing component
of the dynamic and interactive process of social work practice. Social
workers understand theories of human behavior and person-in-
environment, as well as interprofessional conceptual frameworks, and
they critically evaluate and apply this knowledge in culturally responsive
assessment with clients and constituencies, including individuals,
families, groups, organizations, and communities. Assessment
involves a collaborative process of deﬁning presenting challenges and
identifying strengths with individuals, families, groups, organizations,
and communities to develop a mutually agreed-upon plan. Social
workers recognize the implications of the larger practice context in the
assessment process and use interprofessional collaboration in this
process. Social workers are self-reflective and understand how bias,
power, privilege, and their personal values and experiences may affect
their assessment and decision making.
Social workers:
•Collect and organize data to support their professional decision-
making as well as demonstrate critical thinking to interpret
information from clients and constituencies. 
•Illustrate knowledge of human behavior and the social environment,
person-in-environment, and other multidisciplinary theoretical
frameworks in the analysis of assessment data from clients and
constituencies, understanding the lack of political neutrality in their
work.  
•Exemplify a process in which mutually agreed-on intervention goals
and objectives are generated based on the critical assessment of
strengths, needs, and challenges within clients and constituencies in
their social environment; and  
•Convey a deeper understanding of how to select appropriate
intervention strategies informed by assessment, research knowledge,
and values and preferences of clients and constituencies through the
exercise of antiracist practice principles. 
Competency 8: Intervene with Individuals, Families,
Groups, Organizations, and Communities
Social workers understand that intervention is an ongoing component
of the dynamic and interactive process of social work practice. Social
workers understand theories of human behavior, person-in-environment,
and other interprofessional conceptual frameworks, and they critically
evaluate and apply this knowledge in selecting culturally responsive
interventions with clients and constituencies, including individuals,
families, groups, organizations, and communities. Social workersunderstand methods of identifying, analyzing, and implementing
evidence-informed interventions and participate in interprofessional
collaboration to achieve client and constituency goals. Social workers
facilitate effective transitions and endings.
Social workers:
•Practices self-reflective understanding of the professional use of
self in interventions with diverse types of client systems in order to
understand and challenge oppressive social forces as well as to avoid
perpetuating racist biases, microaggressions, and disempowerment
of clients.  
•Use supervision and consultation appropriate to developing skills for
advanced and interdisciplinary practice.   
•Demonstrate an ability to intervene collaboratively and collectively
with clients in choosing treatment plans and their implementation. 
Competency 9: Evaluate Practice with Individuals,
Families, Groups, Organizations, and Communities
Social workers understand that evaluation is an ongoing component
of the dynamic and interactive process of social work practice with
and on behalf of diverse individuals, families, groups, organizations,
and communities. Social workers evaluate processes and outcomes
to increase practice, policy, and service delivery effectiveness. Social
workers apply anti-racist and anti-oppressive perspectives in evaluating
outcomes. Social workers understand theories of human behavior
and person-in-environment, as well as interprofessional conceptual
frameworks, and critically evaluate and apply this knowledge in
evaluating outcomes. Social workers use qualitative and quantitative
methods for evaluating outcomes and practice effectiveness.
Social workers:
•Demonstrate understanding of the logic and method of single case
evaluation of practice from diverse theoretical and methodological
perspectives. 
•Competently demonstrate case evaluation, including identifying
problems and their resolution, the fulﬁllment of goals co-identiﬁed
with client, and managing systemic problems that impinge on client
well-being. 
•Demonstrate competence in incorporating client feedback processes
in planning and carrying out the intervention plan.   
MSW Program Specialized LMMP
Learning Outcomes
Competency 1: Demonstrate Ethical and Professional
Behavior  
Social workers understand the value base of the profession and its
ethical standards, as well as relevant policies, laws, and regulations that
may affect practice with individuals, families, groups, organizations, and
communities. Social workers understand that ethics are informed by
principles of human rights and apply them toward realizing social, racial,
economic, and environmental justice in their practice. Social workers
understand frameworks of ethical decision making and apply principles
of critical thinking to those frameworks in practice, research, and policy
arenas. Social workers recognize and manage personal values and the
distinction between personal and professional values. Social workers
understand how their evolving worldview, personal experiences, and
affective reactions influence their professional judgment and behavior.
Social workers take measures to care for themselves professionally and

--- Page 1322 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1353
personally, understanding that self-care is paramount for competent and
ethical social work practice. Social workers use rights-based, antiracist,
and anti-oppressive lenses to understand and critique the profession’s
history, mission, roles, and responsibilities and recognize historical and
current contexts of oppression in shaping institutions and social work.
Social workers understand the role of other professionals when engaged
in interprofessional practice. Social workers recognize the importance of
lifelong learning and are committed to continually updating their skills to
ensure relevant and effective practice. Social workers understand digital
technology and the ethical use of technology in social work practice.
Social workers:
•Practice self-reflection and self-evaluation in working through
competing personal and professional values. 
•Apply and anti-racist and anti-oppressive framework to macro
practice decision-making, considering NASW and IFSW ethical codes,
research and practice-based knowledge, and applicable legal and
policy information. 
•Promote policies for organizational, community, and policy change
that reflect social work values and challenge inequities. 
•Demonstrate an understanding of social work supervision as an
accountability mechanism in supporting ethical and professional
social work practice. 
•Identify discrimination and marginalization and prioritize the voices
of affected populations. 
Competency 2:  Advance Human Rights and Social,
Racial, Economic, and Environmental Justice 
Social workers understand that every person regardless of position in
society has fundamental human rights. Social workers are knowledgeable
about the global intersecting and ongoing injustices throughout history
that result in oppression and racism, including social work’s role and
response. Social workers critically evaluate the distribution of power
and privilege in society in order to promote social, racial, economic, and
environmental justice by reducing inequities and ensuring dignity and
respect for all. Social workers advocate for and engage in strategies to
eliminate oppressive structural barriers to ensure that social resources,
rights, and responsibilities are distributed equitably and that civil,
political, economic, social, and cultural human rights are protected.
Social workers:
•Integrate knowledge of international human rights conventions and
covenants, as well as human rights theories and frameworks, into
practice that addresses social, economic, and environmental justice. 
•Critically examine the political process to participate in
organizational, community, and policy change addressing human
rights and social justice 
•Identify human rights and justice issues of clients and constituents. 
•Develop strategies to address human rights and justice issues and to
evaluate outcomes with key stakeholders. 
Competency 3:  Engage Anti-Racism, Diversity, Equity,
and Inclusion (ADEI) in Practice 
Social workers understand how racism and oppression shape human
experiences and how these two constructs influence practice at the
individual, family, group, organizational, and community levels and in
policy and research. Social workers understand the pervasive impact of
White supremacy and privilege and use their knowledge, awareness, and
skills to engage in anti-racist practice. Social workers understand howdiversity and intersectionality shape human experiences and identity
development and affect equity and inclusion. The dimensions of diversity
are understood as the intersectionality of factors including but not limited
to age, caste, class, color, culture, disability and ability, ethnicity, gender,
gender identity and expression, generational status, immigration status,
legal status, marital status, political ideology, race, nationality, religion
and spirituality, sex, sexual orientation, and tribal sovereign status. Social
workers understand that this intersectionality means that a person’s
life experiences may include oppression, poverty, marginalization, and
alienation as well as privilege and power. Social workers understand
the societal and historical roots of social and racial injustices and
the forms and mechanisms of oppression and discrimination. Social
workers understand cultural humility and recognize the extent to which
a culture’s structures and values, including social, economic, political,
racial, technological, and cultural exclusions, may create privilege and
power resulting in systemic oppression.
Social workers:
•Demonstrate proﬁciency in choosing and using a variety of
communication styles to engage with people of various political
ideologies, religious and cultural backgrounds, and points of view. 
•Create engagement strategies that are inclusive and consider
systems of power and intersectional identities, including areas of
racism, sexism, nativism, etc.  
•Recognize the discrepancies that may arise between respecting
cultural differences of clients and constituencies and the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights 
•Develop leadership and other teams that reflect the diversity of the
communities in which they work. 
Competency 4: Engage in Practice-Informed Research
and Research-Informed Practice
Social workers use ethical, culturally informed, anti-racist, and anti-
oppressive approaches in conducting research and building knowledge.
Social workers use research to inform their practice decision making
and articulate how their practice experience informs research and
evaluation decisions. Social workers critically evaluate and critique
current, empirically sound research to inform decisions pertaining to
practice, policy, and programs. Social workers understand the inherent
bias in research and evaluate design, analysis, and interpretation
using an anti-racist and anti-oppressive perspective. Social workers
know how to access, critique, and synthesize the current literature to
develop appropriate research questions and hypotheses. Social workers
demonstrate knowledge and skills regarding qualitative and quantitative
research methods and analysis, and they interpret data derived from
these methods. Social workers demonstrate knowledge about methods
to assess reliability and validity in social work research. Social workers
can articulate and share research ﬁndings in ways that are usable to a
variety of clients and constituencies. Social workers understand the value
of evidence derived from interprofessional and diverse research methods,
approaches, and sources.
Social workers:
•Critically analyzes research results on best practices in management
and supervision from a variety of disciplines. 
•Develop research questions with input from stakeholders and
analysis of how the research process may impact, both positively
and negatively, clients, programs, organizations, communities, and/
or policies. Intentionally include the voices and experiences of those
most affected by any type of inequality into the research process 

--- Page 1323 ---
1354  Social Work (BSW/MSW)
•Critically analyze research ﬁndings and practice models to
inform practice at all levels of macro practice, including teams,
organizations, community, and policy 
•Identify possible barriers and resistance to the conduct and
dissemination of research, as well as any ethical, political, and other
dilemmas that may arise. 
Competency 5: Engage in Policy Practice  
Social workers identify social policy at the local, state, federal, and global
level that affects wellbeing, human rights and justice, service delivery,
and access to social services. Social workers recognize the historical,
social, racial, cultural, economic, organizational, environmental, and
global influences that affect social policy. Social workers understand
and critique the history and current structures of social policies and
services and the role of policy in service delivery through rights-based,
anti-oppressive, and anti-racist lenses. Social workers influence policy
formulation, analysis, implementation, and evaluation within their
practice settings with individuals, families, groups, organizations, and
communities. Social workers actively engage in and advocate for anti-
racist and anti-oppressive policy practice to effect change in those
settings.
Social workers:
•Communicate to stakeholders and policymakers the implications of
policies and policy change in the lives of clients. 
•Conduct and design a plan of organizational analysis and change,
working with relevant constituencies, to evaluate interventions
that impact clients and communities utilizing best practice models
reflecting social work values, ethics, and the mission of the
organization. 
•Collect, maintain, interpret, and analyze data from both internal and
external organizational environments, the community of stakeholders
and diverse client groups to identify and prioritize social problems. 
•Recognize how oppression and social injustice affects client groups,
organizations and communities and being proactive in intervening  for
human rights and justice.  
•Understand strategies and techniques for advocating at local, state,
and federal levels in policy development. 
Competency 6: Engage with Individuals, Families,
Groups, Organizations, and Communities  
Social workers understand that engagement is an ongoing component of
the dynamic and interactive process of social work practice with and on
behalf of individuals, families, groups, organizations, and communities.
Social workers value the importance of human relationships. Social
workers understand theories of human behavior and person-in-
environment and critically evaluate and apply this knowledge to facilitate
engagement with clients and constituencies, including individuals,
families, groups, organizations, and communities. Social workers are
self-reflective and understand how bias, power, and privilege as well as
their personal values and personal experiences may affect their ability
to engage effectively with diverse clients and constituencies. Social
workers use the principles of interprofessional collaboration to facilitate
engagement with clients, constituencies, and other professionals as
appropriate.
Social workers:•Demonstrate ability to identify a comprehensive range of
stakeholders in the relevant practice setting: organization,
community, and/or policy. 
•Demonstrate self-awareness and professional behavior in engaging
with individuals, teams, community groups and organizations. 
•Demonstrate verbal, written, and digital skills to engage multiple,
diverse constituencies. 
•Understand and demonstrate effective group and team facilitation
and mediation process skills that facilitate engagement and
collaboration. 
•Deﬁne and recognize their own and others’ leadership skills to
effectively promote stakeholder engagement and change. 
Competency 7: Assess Individuals, Families, Groups,
Organizations, and Communities  
Social workers understand that assessment is an ongoing component
of the dynamic and interactive process of social work practice. Social
workers understand theories of human behavior and person-in-
environment, as well as interprofessional conceptual frameworks, and
they critically evaluate and apply this knowledge in culturally responsive
assessment with clients and constituencies, including individuals,
families, groups, organizations, and communities. Assessment
involves a collaborative process of deﬁning presenting challenges and
identifying strengths with individuals, families, groups, organizations,
and communities to develop a mutually agreed-upon plan. Social
workers recognize the implications of the larger practice context in the
assessment process and use interprofessional collaboration in this
process. Social workers are self-reflective and understand how bias,
power, privilege, and their personal values and experiences may affect
their assessment and decision making.
Social workers:
•Analyze power distributions to identify influential decision-makers,
whether formal or informal, among individuals, teams, organizations,
communities, and other institutional entities 
•Identify and create mezzo and macro interventions based on an
assessment and analysis of assets, needs, beneﬁts, service gaps,
rights, and power and resource distributions. 
•Demonstrate ability to collaborate with stakeholders throughout the
assessment process. 
•Analyze collected data and communicate summaries of the data in
written and oral form as appropriate.  
•Present options for intervention based on data-informed
assessments. 
•Articulate the beneﬁts and drawbacks of various metrics, analytical
methods and tools, and data sources (primary & secondary,
quantitative & qualitative)  
Competency 8: Intervene with Individuals, Families,
Groups, Organizations, and Communities  
Social workers understand that intervention is an ongoing component
of the dynamic and interactive process of social work practice. Social
workers understand theories of human behavior, person-in-environment,
and other interprofessional conceptual frameworks, and they critically
evaluate and apply this knowledge in selecting culturally responsive
interventions with clients and constituencies, including individuals,
families, groups, organizations, and communities. Social workers
understand methods of identifying, analyzing, and implementing
evidence-informed interventions and participate in interprofessional

--- Page 1324 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1355
collaboration to achieve client and constituency goals. Social workers
facilitate effective transitions and endings.
Social workers:
•Articulates ethically sound, social work value-centered supervision
strategies for employees, including performance reviews and
corrective action plans.  
•Engage with stakeholders in the identiﬁcation of issues and
policies that impact individual well-being and the communities and
organizations that support them. 
•Mobilize constituents to participate and lead in issue analysis and
formulation of corresponding advocacy agendas with effective
strategies and tactics to advance meaningful change for social
justice, equity, and inclusion. 
•Participate in coalitions, networks, professional associations, and
community based organizing efforts to leverage political capital to
challenge unjust structures of power and effect positive change.   
•Formulate and persuasively communicate cogent arguments through
effective written and oral formats that reach diverse audiences and
utilize varied platforms.  
Competency 9: Evaluate Practice with Individuals,
Families, Groups, Organizations, and Communities  
Social workers understand that evaluation is an ongoing component
of the dynamic and interactive process of social work practice with
and on behalf of diverse individuals, families, groups, organizations,
and communities. Social workers evaluate processes and outcomes
to increase practice, policy, and service delivery effectiveness. Social
workers apply anti-racist and anti-oppressive perspectives in evaluating
outcomes. Social workers understand theories of human behavior
and person-in-environment, as well as interprofessional conceptual
frameworks, and critically evaluate and apply this knowledge in
evaluating outcomes. Social workers use qualitative and quantitative
methods for evaluating outcomes and practice effectiveness.
Social workers:
•Demonstrate ethical knowledge and awareness of evaluation
guidelines that can be employed in assessment of practice and
ensure conﬁdentiality of engaged participants. 
•Comprehend evaluation norms, benchmarks and guidelines as
approved by NASW and CSWE that allow accurate and impartial
assessments at all levels of social work practice.  
•Illustrate comprehensive knowledge of human rights-based
understanding of evaluation design, methods, approaches,
and analysis that can be applied in simple to complex settings
within social work mezzo and macro policy and organizational
environments.  
•Distinguish, explain, and apply various types of theories of change
and logic models to understand systems thinking to identify
and facilitate growth-oriented evaluative mindsets among all
stakeholders.  
Social Work/International Affairs
(BSW/MA)
The growing interconnectedness of the world’s almost 200 countries,
termed globalization, and the rising impacts of foreign affairs on our
daily lives increasingly require individuals with advanced knowledge
of International Affairs. The Accelerated BA/MA in Social Work andInternational Affairs allows students to explore global problems and
interactions from an interdisciplinary perspective that makes use of
eight Arts and Sciences academic departments and four additional
colleges. Students will have the flexibility to tailor their program to ﬁt
their individual interests. Students can fulﬁll a capstone experience by
participating in an internship, taking a study abroad class, writing a paper
for publication, or writing a master’s thesis.
Loyola University Chicago and the City of Chicago together serve as the
ideal location for an MA in International Affairs: Loyola embodies a long
commitment to interdisciplinary education; and Chicago is consistently
ranked as one of the top ten global cities in the world. The program offers
a unique urban setting for students interested in the advanced study of
International Affairs.
The majority of full-time students are expected to ﬁnish the program
in 5 years, as opposed to the six years if both programs are pursued
separately. Undergraduate students from participating programs at
Loyola will be able to pursue an accelerated BSW/MA in Social Work and
International Affairs.
Students will also be able to take graduate courses in the School of
Communication, the School of Education (International Education), the
School of Law, Parkinson School of Health Sciences and Public Health,
Quinlan School of Business, and the School of Social Work.
Related Programs
Major
•Social Work (BSW)  (p. 951)
Combined
•Social Work (BSW/MSW)  (p. 1344 )
•Social Work/Children's Law and Policy (MSW/MJ)  (p. 2245 )
CURRICULUM
Code Title Hours
BSW RequirementsRequired CoursesSOWK 200 Introduction to Social Work 3SOWK 301Practice Skills with Individuals and Families3
SOWK 302 Integrated Micro/Mezzo/Macro Theory and
Practice3SOWK 303Group Work Practice in Social Work: Micro/Mezzo/
Macro3
SOWK 305 Life Span Development, Human Behavior, Trauma,
& Theory3SOWK 307Social Work Policy and Community Intervention3
SOWK 330 Internship I and Simulated Experience 3.5SOWK 340Internship II and Simulated Experience3.5
SOWK 350 Preparation for Practice 3SOWK 362Integrative Seminar1
SOWK 370 Power, Oppression, Privilege, and Social Justice 3SOWK 380Assessment of Client Concerns in Context3
SOWK 390 Research and Evaluation in Social Work Practice 3Social Science Courses15
PSYC 101 General PsychologySOCL 101Society in a Global Age

--- Page 1325 ---
1356  Social Work/International Affairs (BSW/MA)
9 Credits of Social Science electives  1International Affairs MA RequirementsRequired CoursesCoreINTA 475 Political Analysis I 3INTA 420Comparative Political Systems3
INTA 430 Theories of International Politics 3Capstone Experience3
Select one of the following:INTA 470Fieldwork in PLSC-InternshipPLSC 499 Directed ReadingsPLSC 605Master's StudyElectives  (p. 1356 )In addition to the four core classes, students will take an additional
six elective courses, with no more than three offered by a single
department in the College of Arts and Sciences or another School
at Loyola. The core INTA courses in Political Science do not count
toward this three-course total, and thus a student may take three
Political Science courses in addition to the three core (required)
courses.18
Total Hours74
1Social science electives can be drawn from multiple LUC majors and
are approved by the BSW program.
2At least two Graduate-level International Affairs courses must be taken
Senior Year. These courses can count as major electives or general
electives. These courses double-count for International Affairs MA
requirements.
List of MA Elective Courses
The participating programs that will contribute classes include: Global
Studies, History, Philosophy, Political Science, Psychology, Sociology,
and Theology, Criminal Justice & Criminology, as well as the Schools of
Communication, Education, Business, Law, Health Sciences and Public
Health, and Social Work.
Please note that the courses listed might not be offered every year and
new courses may be added to this list. Students should talk with the
Graduate Program Director if they want to take a course that is not on
the list of elective courses to see whether the course can serve as an
elective.
College of Arts and Sciences
Code Title Hours
Criminal Justice and Criminology DepartmentCJC 416International Criminal Justice3
Methods CoursesCJC 403Research Methods and Program Evaluation3
CJC 404 Applied Data Analysis and Interpretation 4History DepartmentHIST 441 Women's & Gender History: Europe 3HIST 459Environmental History3
HIST 464 Transnational Urban History 3Methods CoursesHIST 483 Oral History: Method and Practice 3Modern Languages and Literatures DepartmentLanguage Research Tool: Although there is no language requirement,
students interested in honing their foreign language skills will have
the option of taking a 400-level language course (i.e., a course
beyond 101, 102, 103, and 104), and having that course count as one
of the six elective courses. Current language possibilities offered at
Loyola include Chinese, French, German, Italian, and Spanish.MLL also offers graduate-level courses in Spanish as part of their
master’s degree in Spanish. These courses are as follows and would
be open only to interested students with advanced writing, speaking,
and reading skills in Spanish. These courses are as follows:SPAN 405 Critical Methods (pan-Hispanic world) 3SPAN 490Hispanic Culture & Civilization (Latin American
ﬁlm, with a focus on human rights)3
Philosophy DepartmentPHIL 459Philosophy of Law3
PHIL 463 Virtue Ethics (includes non-Western philosophy) 3PHIL TBDCritical Race Theory (originally taught as a “special
topics” course; is being turned into a permanent
course)PHIL 480 Social & Political Philosophy (focuses on global
development on a regular basis)3Methods CoursesPHIL 400 Philosophy Research Tools 3Political Science DepartmentPLSC 421 Democratic Political Systems 3PLSC 422Authoritarian Political Systems3
PLSC 431 Formulation US Foreign Policy 3PLSC 432Comparative Foreign Policy Analysis3
PLSC 433 International Organization 3PLSC 435International Political Economics3
PLSC 436 International Conflict 3Methods CoursesPLSC 401 Intro to Research Design & Method 3PLSC 476Political Analysis II3
Psychology DepartmentPSYC 460Social Psychological Theory3
PSYC 461 Attitude and Attitude Change 3PSYC 474Research in Group Dynamics3
PSYC 484 Prejudice and Intergroup Relations 3Methods CoursesPSYC 486 Methods of Program Evaluation 3Sociology DepartmentSOCL 418 Demography 3SOCL 423Social Movements3
SOCL 426 Sociology of Gender 3SOCL 441Sociology of Religion3
SOCL 447 Sociology of Culture 3SOCL 461Race & Ethnicity3
Methods CoursesSOCL 410Logic of Sociological Inquiry3
SOCL 412 Qualitative Methods in Social Research 3SOCL 414Statistical Methods Analysis I3
SOCL 415 Statistical Methods of Analysis II 3Theology Department

--- Page 1326 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1357
THEO 459 Contemporary Theology 1-12THEO 460Seminar in History of Theology1-12
THEO 464 Religion & Politics in Christian History 3THEO 470Foundations Crititical Issues Theological Ethics1-12
THEO 480 Seminar in Christian Ethics 1-12
School of Education (International Education) 
Code Title Hours
ELPS 405 Introduction to Educational Policy Analysis 3ELPS 448International Higher Education3
ELPS 455 Comparative Education 3ELPS 540Seminar in the History of Education3
ELPS 550 Seminar on Globalization and Education 3ELPS 555Seminar Comparative Education3
School of Communication 
Code Title Hours
COMM 401 Foundations of Global Strategic Communication 3COMM 402Organizational Leadership and Change
Management3
COMM 422 Global and Multicultural Audiences and
Stakeholders3
School of Social Work
Code Title Hours
SOWK 502 Power, Oppression, Privilege, and Social Justice 3SOWK 654Global Social Work: Reflective Practice for Justice
and Peace3
SOWK 730 Immigration Dynamics and U.S. Social Policy 3SOWK 731Social Work Practice with Refugees and
Immigrants3
SOWK 732 Migration, Social Justice, and Human Rights 3SOWK 733North American Migration Dynamics, Challenges &
Opportunity1-3
School of Law 
Code Title Hours
LAW 176 International Trade Law 11-3LAW 371International Business Trans 11-3
LAW 372 International Law and Practice 3LAW 388Global Access to Medicine: A Patent Perspective3
LAW 459 Intro to English Legal Profession 1LAW 568European Union Law 11-3
1Explanatory note about 1, 2, 3, and variable credit hour courses from
the School of Law: “For the law courses showing a range of hours (e.g.,
1-3 credit hours), students have the option to choose the number of
credits for enrollment within the range. For students opting for the
higher credits (i.e., enrollment in 3 credit hours rather than 1 credit hour
would require additional assignments and/or an examination). If the
MA students in these courses need to be enrolled in 3 credit hours,
the following notation can be included with the course listing:  ‘MA
students must choose the 3 credit option for enrollment in this course’. ”
Please note that courses to be included in this MA program will require
students choosing the 3-credit option.School of Law - Classes Offered at the John Felice Rome Center
Code Title Hours
PLAW 101 Comparative and Ethical Lawyering for the Rule of
Law3PLAW 102History, Theory and Practice of Rule of Law for
Development3
PLAW 103 Theory and Practice of Assessments in Rule of
Law Advising2PLAW 104International Development Architecture3
PLAW 105 Sustainable Development Through International
Commerce and Investment2PLAW 106Design of Rule of Law Programs and Proposal
Preparation2
PLAW 107 Rule of Law in Conflict Prevention and
Peacebuilding2PLAW 108Legal Systems and Methods3
PLAW 250 Research and Writing on the Rule of Law 3PLAW 907Rule of Law Project Management, Monitoring &
Evaluation3
Parkinson School of Health Sciences and Public Health 
Code Title Hours
MPBH 400 Determinants of Population Health 3MPBH 414Introduction to Global Health3
MPBH 417 Global Maternal & Child Health 3MPBH 422Population Health Planning & Management3
MPBH 424 Health Economics and Healthcare Financing 3MPBH 432Health Impact Assessment3
  Quinlan School of Business 
Code Title Hours
ECON 424 International Business Economics 3FINC 455International Financial Management3
HRER 422 Global HR Management 3HRER 502Global Employment Relations3
MARK 465 International Marketing 3MARK 461Research Methods in Marketing3
MGMT 446 International Business Ethics 3SCMG 486Global Logistics3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
In order to provide optimal flexibility in the program, there is no
required course sequence. However, students are expected to take
two graduate-level  course s in each semester of their senior year and
a total of six graduate-level  course s in their ﬁfth year. There is no
required  course  sequence , but we strongly suggest that students ﬁrst
take the required  course s (PLSC 420, PLSC 430, and PLSC 475) whenever
they are offered before taking elective  course s.
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  

--- Page 1327 ---
1358  Social Work/International Affairs (BSW/MA)
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.

--- Page 1328 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1359
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•a foundation for understanding and critiquing research related to
International Affairs, including methods training that leverages both
qualitative and quantitative data [International Affairs]
•knowledge of the principal theories of comparative politics and
international relations, as well as the key areas of research in these
two subﬁelds [International Affairs]
•an interdisciplinary understanding and appreciation of International
Affairs through coursework available within eight different
departments in the College of Arts and Sciences and four additional
Schools at Loyola [International Affairs]
•enhanced writing and critical thinking skills and dispositions through
class-based projects and a capstone experience [International Affairs]
•strengthened methods, research, or writing skills tailored to students
interests with advanced methods courses, language training, or the
writing of a master’s thesis. [International Affairs]
•For the BSW, see Social Work Competencies.BSW Program Generalist Learning
Outcomes
Competency 1: Demonstrate Ethical and Professional
Behavior
Social workers understand the value base of the profession and its
ethical standards, as well as relevant policies, laws, and regulations that
may affect practice with individuals, families, groups, organizations, and
communities. Social workers understand that ethics are informed by
principles of  human rights and apply them toward realizing social, racial,
economic, and environmental justice in their practice. Social workers
understand frameworks of ethical decision making and apply principles
of critical thinking to those frameworks in practice, research, and policy
arenas.
Social workers recognize and manage personal values and the distinction
between personal and professional values. Social workers understand
how  their evolving worldview, personal experiences, and affective
reactions influence their professional judgment and behavior. Social
workers take  measures to care for themselves professionally and
personally, understanding that self-care is paramount for competent and
ethical social work  practice. Social workers use rights-based, anti- racist,
and anti-oppressive lenses to understand and critique the profession’s
history, mission, roles, and responsibilities and recognize historical and
current contexts of oppression in shaping institutions and social work.
Social workers understand the role of other professionals when engaged
in interprofessional practice. Social workers recognize the importance of
lifelong learning and are committed to continually updating their skills to
ensure relevant and effective practice. Social workers understand digital
technology and the ethical use of technology in social work practice.
Social workers:
1.make ethical decisions by applying the standards of the National
Association of Social Workers Code of Ethics, relevant laws and
regulations, models for ethical decision making, ethical conduct of
research, and additional codes of ethics within the profession as
appropriate to the context;
2.demonstrate professional behavior; appearance; and oral, written, and
electronic communication;
3.use technology ethically and appropriately to facilitate practice
outcomes; and
4.use supervision and consultation to guide professional judgment and
behavior.
Competency 2: Advance Human Rights and Social,
Racial, Economic, and Environmental Justice
Social workers understand that every person regardless of position in
society has fundamental human rights. Social workers are knowledgeable
about the global intersecting and ongoing injustices throughout history
that result in oppression and racism, including social work’s role and
response.
Social workers critically evaluate the distribution of power and privilege
in society in order to promote social, racial, economic, and environmental
justice by reducing inequities and ensuring dignity and respect for
all. Social workers advocate for and engage in strategies to eliminate
oppressive structural barriers to ensure that social resources, rights,
and responsibilities are distributed equitably, and that civil, political,
economic, social, and cultural human rights are protected.

--- Page 1329 ---
1360  Social Work/International Affairs (BSW/MA)
Social workers:
1.advocate for human rights at the individual, family, group,
organizational, and community system levels; and
2.engage in practices that advance human rights to promote social,
racial, economic, and environmental justice.
Competency 3: Engage Anti-Racism, Diversity, Equity,
and Inclusion (ADEI) in Practice
Social workers understand how racism and oppression shape human
experiences and how these two constructs influence practice at the
individual, family, group, organizational, and community levels and in
policy and research. Social workers understand the pervasive impact of
White supremacy and privilege and use their knowledge, awareness, and
skills to engage in anti-racist practice. Social workers understand how
diversity and intersectionality shape human experiences and identity
development and affect equity and inclusion. The dimensions of diversity
are understood as the intersectionality of factors including but not limited
to age, caste, class, color, culture, disability and ability, ethnicity, gender,
gender identity and expression, generational status, immigration status,
legal status, marital status, political ideology, race, nationality, religion
and spirituality, sex, sexual orientation, and tribal sovereign status. Social
workers understand that this intersectionality means that a person’s
life experiences may include oppression, poverty, marginalization, and
alienation as well as privilege and power. Social workers understand
the societal and historical roots of social and racial injustices and
the forms and mechanisms of oppression and discrimination. Social
workers understand cultural humility and recognize the extent to which
a culture’s structures and values, including social, economic, political,
racial, technological, and cultural exclusions, may create privilege and
power resulting in systemic oppression.
Social workers:
1.demonstrate anti-racist and anti-oppressive social work practice at
the individual, family, group, organizational, community, research, and
policy levels; and
2.demonstrate cultural humility by applying critical reflection,
self-awareness, and self- regulation to manage the influence
of bias, power, privilege, and values in working with clients and
constituencies, acknowledging them as experts of their own lived
experiences.
Competency 4: Engage in Practice-informed Research
and Research-informed Practice
Social workers use ethical, culturally informed, anti-racist, and anti-
oppressive approaches in conducting research and building knowledge.
Social workers use research to inform their practice decision making
and articulate how their practice experience informs research and
evaluation decisions. Social workers critically evaluate and critique
current, empirically sound research to inform decisions pertaining to
practice, policy, and programs. Social workers understand the inherent
bias in research and evaluate design, analysis, and interpretation
using an anti-racist and anti-oppressive perspective. Social workers
know how to access, critique, and synthesize the current literature to
develop appropriate research questions and hypotheses. Social workers
demonstrate knowledge and skills regarding qualitative and quantitative
research methods and analysis, and they interpret data derived from
these methods. Social workers demonstrate knowledge about methods
to assess reliability and validity in social work research. Social workers
can articulate and share research ﬁndings in ways that are usable to a
variety of clients and constituencies. Social workers understand the valueof evidence derived from interprofessional and diverse research methods,
approaches, and sources.
Social workers:
1.apply research ﬁndings to inform and improve practice, policy, and
programs; and
2.identify ethical, culturally informed, anti-racist, and anti-op pressive
strategies that address inherent biases for use in quantitative and
qualitative research methods to advance the purposes of social work.
Competency 5: Engage in Policy Practice
Social workers identify social policy at the local, state, federal, and global
level that affect well-being, human rights and justice, service delivery,
and access to social services. Social workers recognize the historical,
social, racial, cultural, economic, organizational, environmental, and
global influences that affect social policy. Social workers understand
and critique the history and current structures of social policies and
services and the role of policy in service delivery through rights- based,
anti-oppressive, and anti-racist lenses. Social workers influence policy
formulation, analysis, implementation, and evaluation within their
practice settings with individuals, families, groups, organizations, and
communities. Social workers actively engage in and advocate for anti-
racist and anti-oppressive policy practice to effect change in those
settings.
Social workers:
1.use social justice, anti-racist, and anti-oppressive lenses to assess
how social welfare policies affect the delivery of and access to social
services; and
2.apply critical thinking to analyze, formulate, and advocate for
policies that advance human rights and social, racial, economic, and
environmental justice.
Competency 6: Engage with Individuals, Families,
Groups, Organizations, and Communities
Social workers understand that engagement is an ongoing component of
the dynamic and interactive process of social work practice with and on
behalf of individuals, families, groups, organizations, and communities.
Social workers value the importance of human relationships. Social
workers understand theories of human behavior and person-in-
environment and critically evaluate and apply this knowledge to facilitate
engagement with clients and constituencies, including individuals,
families, groups, organizations, and communities. Social workers are
self-reflective and understand how bias, power, and privilege as well as
their personal values and personal experiences may affect their ability
to engage effectively with diverse clients and constituencies. Social
workers use the principles of interprofessional collaboration to facilitate
engagement with clients, constituencies, and other professionals as
appropriate.
Social workers:
1.apply knowledge of human behavior and person-in-environment, as
well as interprofessional conceptual frameworks, to engage with
clients and constituencies; and
2.use empathy, reflection, and interpersonal skills to engage in
culturally responsive practice with clients and constituencies.

--- Page 1330 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1361
Competency 7: Assess Individuals, Families, Groups,
Organizations, and Communities
Social workers understand that assessment is an ongoing component
of the dynamic and interactive process of social work practice. Social
workers understand theories of human behavior and person-in-
environment, as well as interprofessional conceptual frameworks, and
they critically evaluate and apply this knowledge in culturally responsive
assessment with clients and constituencies, including individuals,
families, groups, organizations, and communities. Assessment
involves a collaborative process of deﬁning presenting challenges and
identifying strengths with individuals, families, groups, organizations,
and communities to develop a mutually agreed-upon plan. Social
workers recognize the implications of the larger practice context in the
assessment process and use interprofessional collaboration in this
process. Social workers are self-reflective and understand how bias,
power, privilege, and their personal values and experiences may affect
their assessment and decision making.
Social workers:
1.apply theories of human behavior and person-in-environment, as
well as other culturally responsive and interprofessional conceptual
frameworks, when assessing clients and constituencies; and
2.demonstrate respect for client self-determination during the
assessment process by collaborating with clients and constituencies
in developing a mutually agreed-upon plan.
Competency 8: Intervene with Individuals, Families,
Groups, Organizations, and Communities
Social workers understand that intervention is an ongoing component
of the dynamic and interactive process of social work practice. Social
workers understand theories of human behavior, person-in-environment,
and other interprofessional conceptual frameworks, and they critically
evaluate and apply this knowledge in selecting culturally responsive
interventions with clients and constituencies, including individuals,
families, groups, organizations, and communities. Social workers
understand methods of identifying, analyzing, and implementing
evidence-informed interventions and participate in interprofessional
collaboration to achieve client and constituency goals. Social workers
facilitate effective transitions and endings.
Social workers:
1.engage with clients and constituencies to critically choose and
implement culturally responsive, evidence-informed interventions to
achieve client and constituency goals; and
2.incorporate culturally responsive methods to negotiate, mediate, and
advocate with and on behalf of clients and constituencies.
Competency 9: Evaluate Practice with Individuals,
Families, Groups, Organizations, and Communities
Social workers understand that evaluation is an ongoing component
of the dynamic and interactive process of social work practice with
and on behalf of diverse individuals, families, groups, organizations,
and communities. Social workers evaluate processes and outcomes
to increase practice, policy, and service delivery effectiveness. Social
workers apply anti-racist and anti-oppressive perspectives in evaluating
outcomes. Social workers understand theories of human behavior
and person-in-environment, as well as interprofessional conceptual
frameworks, and critically evaluate and apply this knowledge inevaluating outcomes. Social workers use qualitative and quantitative
methods for evaluating outcomes and practice effectiveness.
Social workers:
1.select and use culturally responsive methods for evaluation of
outcomes; and
2.critically analyze outcomes and apply evaluation ﬁndings to
improve practice effectiveness with individuals, families, groups,
organizations, and communities.
Sociology (BA/MA)
The Sociology Department offers a 5 year BA/MA degree, allowing you
to begin graduate school in your senior year, and to ﬁnish the MA degree
at the end of your 5th year.  This is a wonderful opportunity to gain an
advanced degree without the time and expense of the longer 2 year MA
degree offered by most programs. This is approximately one year less
than normally required to earn both degrees. Graduates of this program
will be well prepared to enter the labor force, a professional school or
pursue a PhD.
Related Programs
Major
•Sociology (BA)  (p. 665)
•Sociology-Anthropology (BA)  (p. 669)
Combined
•Sociology/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1364 )
Curriculum
The BA/MA program generally requires four more sociology courses
taken in the student's ﬁrst four years than the eleven normally required
for a BA sociology major. The four extra courses must be graduate-level
courses, and are usually taken in the student's senior year. Consequently,
BA/MA students will generally have four fewer non-sociology electives
than ordinary BA students. In some cases, students may only take two
graduate courses during their senior year, and take the other two during
their ﬁfth year along with the other graduate courses they take that year
(in these instances students may take longer than ﬁve years to ﬁnish the
program).  
Code Title Hours
BA RequirementsRequired CoursesSOCL 101 Society in a Global Age 3SOCL 205Sociological Thought 13
SOCL 206 Principles of Social Research 3SOCL 301Statistics for Social Research4
SOCL 365 Social Theory & Social Research 23Elective Courses18
Complete six total electives; ﬁve must be from SOCL 210-SOCL 380.
3,4,5MA Requirements  6Required CoursesSOCL 405History Sociological Thought3
SOCL 410 Logic of Sociological Inquiry 3SOCL 412Qualitative Methods in Social Research3

--- Page 1331 ---
1362  Sociology (BA/MA)
SOCL 414 Statistical Methods Analysis I 3Choose one of the following MA track speciﬁc course:3
General TrackSOCL 406Modern Sociological TheoryApplied and Public TrackSOCL 494Internship 7Elective Courses (See list)  (p. 1362 )15Total Hours64
1Any Sociology 100-level course is considered to be a prerequisite
for SOCL 205  Sociological Thought , except by special permission of the
instructor.
2SOCL 205  Sociological Thought , SOCL 206  Principles of Social
Research , and  SOCL 301  Statistics for Social Research  are
prerequisites for  SOCL 365  Social Theory & Social Research .
These courses provide social science students with the theory and
methodology background needed for more advanced work.
3Only one semester of  SOCL 380  Internship  may be counted toward
the major (although this is a six credit hour course, it counts as one
course).
4In choosing electives, majors should consult with their department
advisor.  One course from another social science may be substituted
with departmental permission.
5A list of all Sociology (SOCL) course descriptions can be found  here
(p. 2895 ).
6Students who only took two graduate courses during their senior  year
of the BA/MA program will have to take eight graduate-level sociology
courses to complete the program. 
7If the student intends to do the applied MA track, they are advised not
to take the undergraduate internship ( SOCL 380  Internship ) but to take
the graduate internship instead ( SOCL 494  Internship )
MA Elective List
Code Title Hours
Select ﬁve of the following: 15SOCL 406Modern Sociological Theory3
SOCL 415 Statistical Methods of Analysis II 3SOCL 418Demography3
SOCL 421 Theories Social Change 3SOCL 423Social Movements3
SOCL 425 Inequality and Society 3SOCL 426Sociology of Gender3
SOCL 427 Political Sociology 3SOCL 428Poverty and Social Welfare3
SOCL 432 Socialization Thru Life Cycle 3SOCL 438The Family3
SOCL 439 Community Change 3SOCL 440Organizations & Organizational Change3
SOCL 441 Sociology of Religion 3SOCL 442Religious Conflict & Change3
SOCL 446 Knowledge, Power & Expertise 3SOCL 447Sociology of Culture3
SOCL 448 Technology & Material Culture 3SOCL 452Complex Organizations3
SOCL 453 Occupations and Professions 3SOCL 461Race & Ethnicity3
SOCL 462 The Urban Metropolis 3SOCL 463Sociology & Natural Environment3
SOCL 471 Sociology of Deviance & Control 3SOCL 473Criminology3
SOCL 481 Medical Sociology 3SOCL 490Workshop: Applied Sociology1
SOCL 491 Sociological Discourse 3SOCL 494Internship3
SOCL 497 Independent Research 13SOCL 498Independent Research 13
SOCL 499 Directed Study 13
1Only one independent research/directed study course counted toward
MA.
Thesis or Portfolio
Students in the BA/MA program must do either a thesis or a portfolio.
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s

--- Page 1332 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1363
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while

--- Page 1333 ---
1364  Sociology/International Affairs (BA/MA)
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•identify the broad theoretical orientations of the discipline [General
Track]
•frame sociological research questions [General Track]
•synthesize social scientiﬁc literature [General Track]
•select appropriate data sources [General Track]
•collect and present data in accordance with ethical and professional
standards [General Track]
•use one or more data collection methods to carry out a research
project, such as interviews, participant observation, surveys, or
archival evidence [General Track]
•analyze quantitative or qualitative data [General Track]
•write a sociological research report [General Track]
•apply sociological knowledge to governmental, non-proﬁt, or for-proﬁt
organizational activities [Applied Track]
•contribute to the work of a governmental, non-proﬁt, or for-proﬁt
organization through an internship [Applied Track]
•frame a research question relevant to an organization [Applied Track]
•select appropriate data sources [Applied Track]
•collect and present data in accordance with ethical and professional
standards [Applied Track]
•use one or more data collection methods, such as interviews,
participant observation, or surveys [Applied Track]
•analyze quantitative or qualitative data [Applied Track]
•write a sociologically-informed report that is relevant to an
organization [Applied Track]
Sociology/International Affairs (BA/
MA)
The growing interconnectedness of the world’s almost 200 countries,
termed globalization, and the rising impacts of foreign affairs on our
daily lives increasingly require individuals with advanced knowledge
of International Affairs. The Accelerated BA/MA in Sociology and
International Affairs allows students to explore global problems and
interactions from an interdisciplinary perspective that makes use of
eight Arts and Sciences academic departments and four additional
colleges. Students will have the flexibility to tailor their program to ﬁt
their individual interests. Students can fulﬁll a capstone experience by
participating in an internship, taking a study abroad class, writing a paper
for publication, or writing a master’s thesis.
Loyola University Chicago and the City of Chicago together serve as the
ideal location for an MA in International Affairs: Loyola embodies a long
commitment to interdisciplinary education; and Chicago is consistently
ranked as one of the top ten global cities in the world. The program offers
a unique urban setting for students interested in the advanced study of
International Affairs.
The majority of full-time students are expected to ﬁnish the program
in 5 years, as opposed to the six years if both programs are pursued
separately. Undergraduate students from participating programs at
Loyola will be able to pursue an accelerated BA/MA in Sociology and
International Affairs.Students will also be able to take graduate courses in the School of
Communication, the School of Education (International Education), the
School of Law, Parkinson School of Health Sciences and Public Health,
Quinlan School of Business, and the School of Social Work.
Related Programs
Major
•Sociology (BA)  (p. 665)
•Sociology-Anthropology (BA)  (p. 669)
Combined
•Sociology (BA/MA)  (p. 1361 )
Curriculum
For the BA, students will complete requirements for the Bachelor's
degree, and graduate level courses may be used as electives.  For the MA,
students will take a total of ten classes (30 credit hours) to complete the
program: Four required core classes, including a capstone experience,
and an additional six elective classes, with no more than three offered by
a single department in the College of Arts & Sciences or another School
at Loyola.
Code Title Hours
Sociology BA RequirementsRequired CoursesSOCL 205 Sociological Thought 13SOCL 206Principles of Social Research3
SOCL 301 Statistics for Social Research 4SOCL 365Social Theory & Social Research 23
ElectivesComplete seven total electives; ﬁve must be from SOCL 210-
SOCL 380.  3,4,521
International Affairs MA RequirementsRequired CoursesCOREINTA 475Political Analysis I3
INTA 420 Comparative Political Systems 3INTA 430Theories of International Politics3
Capstone Experience 3Select one of the following:INTA 470 Fieldwork in PLSC-InternshipPLSC 499Directed ReadingsPLSC 605 Master's StudyElectives  (p. 1365 ) 6In addition to the four core classes, students will take an additional
six elective courses, with no more than three offered by a single
department in the College of Arts and Sciences or another School
at Loyola. The core INTA courses in Political Science do not count
toward this three-course total, and thus a student may take three
Political Science courses in addition to the three core (required)
courses.18
Total Hours64
1Any Sociology 100-level course is considered to be a prerequisite
for SOCL 205  Sociological Thought , except by special permission of the
instructor.

--- Page 1334 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1365
2SOCL 205  Sociological Thought , SOCL 206  Principles of Social
Research , and  SOCL 301  Statistics for Social Research  are
prerequisites for  SOCL 365  Social Theory & Social Research .
These courses provide social science students with the theory and
methodology background needed for more advanced work.
3Only one semester of SOCL 380  Internship  may be counted toward the major
(although this is a six credit hour course, it counts as one course).
4In choosing electives, majors should consult with their department
advisor.  One course from another social science may be substituted
with departmental permission.
5A list of all Sociology (SOCL) course descriptions can be found  here
(p. 2895 ).
6Two Graduate-level International Affairs courses must be taken Senior Year.
These courses can count as major electives or general electives. These two
courses double-count for International Affairs MA requirements.
List of MA Elective Courses
The participating programs that will contribute classes include: Global
Studies, History, Philosophy, Political Science, Psychology, Sociology,
and Theology, Criminal Justice & Criminology, as well as the Schools of
Communication, Education, Business, Law, Health Sciences and Public
Health, and Social Work.
Please note that the courses listed might not be offered every year and
new courses may be added to this list. Students should talk with the
Graduate Program Director if they want to take a course that is not on
the list of elective courses to see whether the course can serve as an
elective.
College of Arts and Sciences
Code Title Hours
Criminal Justice and Criminology DepartmentCJC 416International Criminal Justice3
Methods CoursesCJC 403Research Methods and Program Evaluation3
CJC 404 Applied Data Analysis and Interpretation 4History DepartmentHIST 441 Women's & Gender History: Europe 3HIST 459Environmental History3
HIST 464 Transnational Urban History 3Methods CoursesHIST 483 Oral History: Method and Practice 3Modern Languages and Literatures DepartmentLanguage Research Tool: Although there is no language requirement,
students interested in honing their foreign language skills will have
the option of taking a 400-level language course (i.e., a course
beyond 101, 102, 103, and 104), and having that course count as one
of the six elective courses. Current language possibilities offered at
Loyola include Chinese, French, German, Italian, and Spanish.MLL also offers graduate-level courses in Spanish as part of their
master’s degree in Spanish. These courses are as follows and would
be open only to interested students with advanced writing, speaking,
and reading skills in Spanish. These courses are as follows:SPAN 405 Critical Methods (pan-Hispanic world) 3SPAN 490Hispanic Culture & Civilization (Latin American
ﬁlm, with a focus on human rights)3
Philosophy DepartmentPHIL 459Philosophy of Law3PHIL 463 Virtue Ethics (includes non-Western philosophy) 3PHIL TBDCritical Race Theory (originally taught as a “special
topics” course; is being turned into a permanent
course)PHIL 480 Social & Political Philosophy (focuses on global
development on a regular basis)3Methods CoursesPHIL 400 Philosophy Research Tools 3Political Science DepartmentPLSC 421 Democratic Political Systems 3PLSC 422Authoritarian Political Systems3
PLSC 431 Formulation US Foreign Policy 3PLSC 432Comparative Foreign Policy Analysis3
PLSC 433 International Organization 3PLSC 435International Political Economics3
PLSC 436 International Conflict 3Methods CoursesPLSC 401 Intro to Research Design & Method 3PLSC 476Political Analysis II3
Psychology DepartmentPSYC 460Social Psychological Theory3
PSYC 461 Attitude and Attitude Change 3PSYC 474Research in Group Dynamics3
PSYC 484 Prejudice and Intergroup Relations 3Methods CoursesPSYC 486 Methods of Program Evaluation 3Sociology DepartmentSOCL 418 Demography 3SOCL 423Social Movements3
SOCL 426 Sociology of Gender 3SOCL 441Sociology of Religion3
SOCL 447 Sociology of Culture 3SOCL 461Race & Ethnicity3
Methods CoursesSOCL 410Logic of Sociological Inquiry3
SOCL 412 Qualitative Methods in Social Research 3SOCL 414Statistical Methods Analysis I3
SOCL 415 Statistical Methods of Analysis II 3Theology DepartmentTHEO 459 Contemporary Theology 1-12THEO 460Seminar in History of Theology1-12
THEO 464 Religion & Politics in Christian History 3THEO 470Foundations Crititical Issues Theological Ethics1-12
THEO 480 Seminar in Christian Ethics 1-12
School of Education (International Education)
Code Title Hours
ELPS 405 Introduction to Educational Policy Analysis 3ELPS 448International Higher Education3
ELPS 455 Comparative Education 3ELPS 540Seminar in the History of Education3
ELPS 550 Seminar on Globalization and Education 3ELPS 555Seminar Comparative Education3

--- Page 1335 ---
1366  Sociology/International Affairs (BA/MA)
 School of Communication
Code Title Hours
COMM 401 Foundations of Global Strategic Communication 3COMM 402Organizational Leadership and Change
Management3
COMM 422 Global and Multicultural Audiences and
Stakeholders3
School of Social Work
Code Title Hours
SOWK 502 Power, Oppression, Privilege, and Social Justice 3SOWK 654Global Social Work: Reflective Practice for Justice
and Peace3
SOWK 730 Immigration Dynamics and U.S. Social Policy 3SOWK 731Social Work Practice with Refugees and
Immigrants3
SOWK 732 Migration, Social Justice, and Human Rights 3SOWK 733North American Migration Dynamics, Challenges &
Opportunity1-3
School of Law 
Code Title Hours
LAW 176 International Trade Law 11-3LAW 371International Business Trans 11-3
LAW 372 International Law and Practice 3LAW 388Global Access to Medicine: A Patent Perspective3
LAW 459 Intro to English Legal Profession 1LAW 568European Union Law 11-3
1Explanatory note about 1, 2, 3, and variable credit hour courses from
the School of Law: “For the law courses showing a range of hours (e.g.,
1-3 credit hours), students have the option to choose the number of
credits for enrollment within the range. For students opting for the
higher credits (i.e., enrollment in 3 credit hours rather than 1 credit hour
would require additional assignments and/or an examination). If the
MA students in these courses need to be enrolled in 3 credit hours,
the following notation can be included with the course listing:  ‘MA
students must choose the 3 credit option for enrollment in this course’. ”
Please note that courses to be included in this MA program will require
students choosing the 3-credit option.
 School of Law - Classes Offered at the John Felice Rome Center
Code Title Hours
PLAW 101 Comparative and Ethical Lawyering for the Rule of
Law3PLAW 102History, Theory and Practice of Rule of Law for
Development3
PLAW 103 Theory and Practice of Assessments in Rule of
Law Advising2PLAW 104International Development Architecture3
PLAW 105 Sustainable Development Through International
Commerce and Investment2PLAW 106Design of Rule of Law Programs and Proposal
Preparation2
PLAW 107 Rule of Law in Conflict Prevention and
Peacebuilding2PLAW 108Legal Systems and Methods3PLAW 250 Research and Writing on the Rule of Law 3PLAW 907Rule of Law Project Management, Monitoring &
Evaluation3
Parkinson School of Health Sciences and Public Health 
Code Title Hours
MPBH 400 Determinants of Population Health 3MPBH 414Introduction to Global Health3
MPBH 417 Global Maternal and Child Health 3MPBH 422Population Health Planning & Management3
MPBH 424 Health Economics and Healthcare Financing 3MPBH 432Health Impact Assessment3
Quinlan School of Business 
Code Title Hours
ECON 424 International Business Economics 3FINC 455International Financial Management3
HRER 422 Global HR Management 3HRER 502Global Employment Relations3
MARK 465 International Marketing 3MARK 461Research Methods in Marketing3
MGMT 446 International Business Ethics 3SCMG 486Global Logistics3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
In order to provide optimal flexibility in the program, there is no
required course sequence. However, students are expected to take
two graduate-level  course s in each semester of their senior year and
a total of six graduate-level  course s in their ﬁfth year. There is no
required  course  sequence , but we strongly suggest that students ﬁrst
take the required  course s (PLSC 420, PLSC 430, and PLSC 475) whenever
they are offered before taking elective  course s.
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:

--- Page 1336 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1367
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from coursesthat are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the

--- Page 1337 ---
1368  Software Engineering (BS/MS)
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
Students will graduate from our program having achieved:
•a foundation for understanding and critiquing research related to
International Affairs, including methods training that leverages both
qualitative and quantitative data [International Affairs]
•knowledge of the principal theories of comparative politics and
international relations, as well as the key areas of research in these
two subﬁelds [International Affairs]
•an interdisciplinary understanding and appreciation of International
Affairs through coursework available within eight different
departments in the College of Arts and Sciences and four additional
Schools at Loyola [International Affairs]
•enhanced writing and critical thinking skills and dispositions through
class-based projects and a capstone experience [International Affairs]
•strengthened methods, research, or writing skills tailored to students
interests with advanced methods courses, language training, or the
writing of a master’s thesis. [International Affairs]
•Critical Thinking - demonstrate the ability to analyze and evaluate
multiple and competing social, political, and/or cultural arguments.
[Sociology]
•Sociological Imagination - the ability to articulate and evaluate
how individual biographies are shaped by social structures, social
institutions, cultural routines, and multiple of elements of social
difference and/or inequality. [Sociology]
•Communication - the ability to formulate effective and convincing
written and verbal arguments. [Sociology]
•Diversity – an awareness of how people of different cultural, religious,
and political belief systems interpret the world around them through
those beliefs. [Sociology]
•Sociological Theory - the ability to use and evaluate both classical
and contemporary perspectives in sociological theory. [Sociology]
•Methodology - the ability to interpret and evaluate several of
the major social science research methodologies, as well as
the relationship between research questions and appropriate
methods. [Sociology]
•Substantive Areas - the ability to demonstrate knowledge of multiple
key substantive areas within the ﬁeld of sociology and evaluate
competing perspectives. [Sociology]
•Social Justice in the Jesuit Tradition - the ability to articulate and
evaluate how sociological insights should inform a commitment to
social justice. [Sociology]Software Engineering (BS/MS)
The BS/MS programs in Information Technology, Software Engineering,
and Computer Science are ﬁve-year programs that give academically
successful Loyola undergraduates the opportunity to pursue the MS
degree in Information Technology, Software Engineering, or Computer
Science while completing their BS degree. The applicant can be
pursuing any of the BS degrees offered by the Department of Computer
Science, including the joint majors with Mathematics or Physics or the
interdisciplinary Bioinformatics.
These programs reduce the total number of courses needed and the total
time needed for the combined degrees. Speciﬁcally, students in the BS/
MS program are allowed to “double count” 9 credits (generally three 3-
credit courses) of their Loyola COMP courses towards both their BS and
MS degrees. Each double-counted course must be a 400-level course
taken in the student’s senior year in place of a corresponding 300-level
course. This leaves a total of 21 credits (seven courses) to be taken after
completion of the Bachelors' degree.
Students may not automatically enroll in the BS/MS program
during Freshman admission. They must speciﬁcally apply to the
Graduate School, generally in their Junior year by using  The Graduate
Application Form  (https://gpem.luc.edu/apply/ ). See  Application
Requirements  (https://academics.cs.luc.edu/undergraduate/
bsmsprograms.html#application-requirements ) and  Application
Information  (https://academics.cs.luc.edu/undergraduate/
bsmsprograms.html#application-information ) for more details.
Related Programs
Combined
•Computer Science (BS/MS)  (p. 1068 )
•Information Technology (BS/MS)  (p. 1254 )
CURRICULUM
The stand-alone MS programs each require 30 credits of graduate
courses. This generally takes one and a half years to complete. BS/MS
students must also take 30 credits of courses at the 400 level or greater.
The main advantages come from the fact that some of the MS courses
may be double-counted, applying to the BS also, and there can be a shift
in some of the required MS courses based on what students took in the
BS portion. In particular students in the BS/MS program are allowed to
“double count” 9 credits (generally three 3-credit courses) of their Loyola
COMP courses for both their BS and MS degrees. Each must be a 400
level course taken in the student’s senior year  in place  of a 300 level major
course. Also, a student wishing to take 123 or more credits while an
undergraduate, can have 3 of the extra credits be for a fourth 400 level
COMP course, and count that toward the MS if the extra course is needed
for no undergraduate requirement, from the university, college, core, major
or minor. Hence a BS/MS student with 120 credits and 9 400-level COMP
credits counted for the BS is required to take only 21 credits (instead of
30 credits) of additional 400-level courses. If a student takes a further 3-
credit 400 level COMP course beyond the 120 credits needed for the BS,
then only 18 further credits are needed. In either case, students can ﬁnish
the program in ﬁve years.
Code Title Hours
Major RequirementsSelect one of the following:3-4
MATH 131 Applied Calculus I

--- Page 1338 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1369MATH 161Calculus I 1Select one of the following: 3ISSCM 241Business StatisticsPSYC 304 StatisticsSTAT 103Fundamentals of StatisticsSTAT 203 Introduction to Probability & StatisticsCOMP 141Introduction to Computing Tools and Techniques3
COMP 163 Discrete Structures 3
or MATH 201 Introduction to Discrete Mathematics & Number
TheoryCOMP 170Introduction to Object-Oriented Programming3
COMP 264 Introduction to Computer Systems 3COMP 271Data Structures I3
COMP 272 Data Structures II 3COMP 313Object-Oriented Design3
COMP 317 Social, Legal, and Ethical Issues in Computing 3COMP 330Software Engineering3
Software Engineering Restricted ElectivesSelect nine credit hours from the following:9
COMP 332 Requirements EngineeringCOMP 335Formal Methods in Software EngineeringCOMP 370 Software QualityCOMP 371Programming LanguagesCOMP 373 Advanced Object-Oriented ProgrammingCOMP 382Compiler ConstructionPracticum CapstoneSelect six credit hours from the following:  26
COMP 312 Open Source Software PracticumCOMP 390Broadening Participation in STEM (Computing,
Math & Science)COMP 391 Internship in Computer ScienceCOMP 398Independent StudyComputer Science 300-Level ElectivesSelect ten credit hours from any COMP 300-Level Courses  310
Computer Science Free ElectiveSelect one of the following:3
COMP 125 Visual Information ProcessingCOMP 150Introduction to ComputingCOMP 300-Level Course  3MS RequirementsCOMP 413 Intermediate Object-Oriented Development 3COMP 417Social and Ethical Issues in Computing3
Three Courses from Restricted Elective Groups 9Group 1 (at least one course)COMP 424 Client-Side Web DesignCOMP 433Web Services ProgrammingCOMP 434 Enterprise Software DevelopmentCOMP 437Intro Concurrent ProgrammingCOMP 439 Distributed SystemsCOMP 442Server-Side Software DevelopmentCOMP 460 Algorithms & ComplexityCOMP 471Theory of Programming LanguagesCOMP 473 Advanced Object Oriented ProgrammingCOMP 474Software EngineeringGroup 2COMP 410Operating SystemsCOMP 412 Open Source ComputingCOMP 420Software Systems AnalysisCOMP 436 Markup LanguagesCOMP 441Human-Computer InteractionCOMP 453 Database ProgrammingCOMP 464High-Performance ComputingFive (5) COMP Graduate Level Electives  415Total Hours82
1By arrangement with the Undergraduate Program Director, the
extra credit from  MATH 161 Calculus I  may be applied towards the
“Computer Science Free Electives” category.
2See the details of registering in the links for each course. Students are
encouraged to complete these credits during junior and senior years to
draw on prior experience. Note:
•COMP 312  is a 3-credit course
•COMP 390  is limited to 3 total credits
•COMP 391  and  COMP 398  will usually be limited to 6 total credits
each, but permission may sometimes be granted for more.
3A list of available COMP 300-level courses can be found  here  (https://
catalog.luc.edu/undergraduate/arts-sciences/computer-science/
#coursestext ).
4Electives can be any  COMP 400 level class
(p. 1576 ), except the preparation courses
(COMP 400A , COMP 400B , COMP 400C , COMP 400D , COMP 400E ).
Students may take up to a maximum of 6 credit hours of  COMP 490
Independent Project  and/or  COMP 499 Internship .
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
Fall
COMP 141 Introduction to Computing Tools and
Techniques3COMP 150Introduction to Computing 13
MATH 131 Applied Calculus I 23UNIV 101First Year Seminar1
CORE: College Writing Seminar 3CORE: Philosophical Knowledge Tier 13 Hours16
SpringCOMP 163Discrete Structures3
COMP 170 Introduction to Object-Oriented
Programming 33STAT 103Fundamentals of Statistics 43

--- Page 1339 ---
1370  Software Engineering (BS/MS)
CORE: Ethics 3CORE: Historical Knowledge Tier 13 Hours15
Year 2
FallCOMP 264Introduction to Computer Systems3
COMP 271 Data Structures I 3COMP 317Social, Legal, and Ethical Issues in
Computing3
CAS Language Requirement 101 level  53CORE: Theology and Religious Studies Tier 13 Hours15
SpringCOMP 272Data Structures II3
COMP 330 Software Engineering 3CAS Language Requirement 102 level3
CORE: Scientiﬁc Knowledge Tier 1 3CORE: Societal & Cultural Knowledge Tier 13 Hours15
Year 3
FallCOMP Free Elective1
COMP Free Elective 3CORE: Artistic Knowledge & Experience3
CORE: Literary Knowledge & Experience Tier 1 3CORE: Philosophical Knowledge Tier 23Software Engineering Restricted Elective3 Hours16
Spring
COMP 313 Object-Oriented Design 3CORE: Historical Knowledge Tier 23
CORE: Scientiﬁc Knowledge Tier 2 3CORE: Theology and Religious Studies Tier 23Software Engineering Restricted Elective3 Hours15
Year 4
Fall
CAS Elective 3COMP Practicum3
CORE: Literary Knowledge & Experience Tier 2 3CORE: Societal & Cultural Knowledge Tier 23Software Engineering Restricted Elective3 Hours15
Spring
CAS Elective 3COMP 400-Level Course3
COMP 400-Level Course 3COMP 400-Level Course3COMP Practicum3 Hours15Year 5Complete MS requirements in consultation with Graduate
Program Director.21 Hours21 Total Hours143
1COMP 150 Introduction to Computing  will apply to COMP Free
Electives; students with prior experience in computer programming,
for example a high school course modeled on the  Exploring Computer 
Science  (https://www.exploringcs.org/ ) or Computer Science Principles
(https://apcentral.collegeboard.org/courses/ap-computer-science-
principles/ ) curriculum may replace this course with a different COMP
Free Elective at any time during the program.  A score of 4 or 5 on the
AP CS Principles Exam will earn actual credit for this course.
2May substitute  MATH 161 Calculus I  and may use the extra credit
towards COMP Free Electives.
3A score of 4 or 5 on the AP CS A Exam will earn credit for this course.
4May substitute  STAT 203 Introduction to Probability &
Statistics  or ISSCM 241 Business Statistics  or PSYC 304 Statistics .
5Language must be completed through the 102 course level or through
an exam  (https://www.luc.edu/cas/college-requirements/ ).
Additional Rules of the BS/MS Program
1.All students need to take  COMP 271 Data Structures I  as part of their
undergraduate major.
2.Students pursuing an MS in Software Engineering or Computer
Science must take  COMP 313 Object-Oriented Design  by their senior
year.
3.Students may take at most 6 credits total of internship at the
undergraduate and graduate level,  COMP 391 Internship in Computer
Science  plus  COMP 499 Internship .
4.A student with credit for a 300 level COMP course that was taught
in a combined class with a 400 level course may not take the 400
level course later for separate credit without permission from the
Graduate Program Director. In particular for students with credit
for COMP 317 Social, Legal, and Ethical Issues in Computing ,
the MS requirement for  COMP 417 Social and Ethical Issues in
Computing  is waived, to be replaced by 3 MS elective credits.
Similarly, in programs requiring  COMP 413 Intermediate Object-
Oriented Development , COMP 313 Object-Oriented Design  will satisfy
the requirement, but still, the course will need to be replaced by 3 MS
elective credits.
5.In MS programs with restricted electives lists with two or more
courses required from a larger explicit list, one of the courses may
be waived if the corresponding 300 level undergraduate course was
successfully completed at Loyola. The course must still be replaced
by a 3-credit MS program elective.
6.All further individual MS program requirements must be met with the
inclusion of the allowed 400 level courses taken as an undergraduate.
Requirements for Completion of the BS/MS Program
After admission to the BS/MS program, a student may request to be
registered in their senior year for up to four 400 level COMP courses, with
three of them replacing undergraduate major courses, and a fourth  if the
student will graduate with at least 123 credits and not need the fourth
course as a part of  any undergraduate requirement. Students generally
take the remainder of their 30 credits of 400-level MS classes during
their ﬁfth year. This schedule can be modiﬁed for students with AP or
transfer credit who desire to ﬁnish the combined program in less than

--- Page 1340 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1371
ﬁve years. Students in the program are expected to consult regularly
with the Graduate Program Director to ensure that they are on track for
completion of both the BS and MS degrees. The following are required to
complete a BS/MS degree program:
•Successful completion of one of the BS degrees in the Department
of Computer Science or Bioinformatics or a joint major with
Mathematics or Physics
•The 400-level graduate courses, excluding those counted while an
undergraduate, completed with a GPA of 3.0 or higher
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easilyidentiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while

--- Page 1341 ---
1372  Special Education/International Affairs (BSEd/MA)
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•Students will gain familiarity with software development in a wide
range of application contexts, using a range of programming
languages and tools.
Special Education/International
Affairs (BSEd/MA)
The growing interconnectedness of the world’s almost 200 countries,
termed globalization, and the rising impacts of foreign affairs on our
daily lives increasingly require individuals with advanced knowledge ofInternational Affairs. The Accelerated BSEd/MA in Special Education
and International Affairs allows students to explore global problems
and interactions from an interdisciplinary perspective that makes use
of eight Arts and Sciences academic departments and four additional
colleges. Students will have the flexibility to tailor their program to ﬁt
their individual interests. Students can fulﬁll a capstone experience by
participating in an internship, taking a study abroad class, writing a paper
for publication, or writing a master’s thesis.
Loyola University Chicago and the City of Chicago together serve as the
ideal location for an MA in International Affairs: Loyola embodies a long
commitment to interdisciplinary education; and Chicago is consistently
ranked as one of the top ten global cities in the world. The program offers
a unique urban setting for students interested in the advanced study of
International Affairs.
The majority of full-time students are expected to ﬁnish the program
in 5 years, as opposed to the six years if both programs are pursued
separately. Undergraduate students from participating programs
at Loyola will be able to pursue an accelerated BSEd/MA in Special
Education and International Affairs.
Students will also be able to take graduate courses in the School of
Communication, the School of Education (International Education), the
School of Law, Parkinson School of Health Sciences and Public Health,
Quinlan School of Business, and the School of Social Work.
Related Programs
Major
•Special Education (BSEd)  (p. 909)
Minor
•Special Education Minor  (p. 912)
Curriculum
For the BSEd, students will complete requirements for the Bachelor's
degree, and graduate level courses may be used as electives. For the MA,
students will take a total of ten classes (30 credit hours) to complete the
program: Four required core classes, including a capstone experience,
and an additional six elective classes, with no more than three offered by
a single department in the College of Arts & Sciences or another School
at Loyola.
Code Title Hours
BSEd RequirementsCIEP 104Mathematics for Teachers I3
CIEP 206 Children's Literature 3CIEP 332School Wide Applications3
CIEP 359 Teaching Reading 3ELPS 219History of American Education3
ELPS 302 Philosophy of Education 3TLSC 110The Profession and Our Program (TLLSC)1
TLSC 120 Bringing Language, Learning & Development
Theory into Practice2TLSC 130Sequence One: 130 Community Immersion1
TLSC 140 Teaching, Learning and Leading for Social Justice 1TLSC 150Constructive Learning Environments For Diverse
Students1

--- Page 1342 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1373
TLSC 160 Analyzing Culturally-Responsive Classroom
Instruction1TLSC 210Educational Policy For Diverse Students2
TLSC 221 Individualized Instruction and Assessment for
Diverse Learners2TLSC 222Authentic Assessment and Instruction for Bilingual
Learners2
TLSC 260 Typical and A-Typical Development 2TLSC 261Signiﬁcant Disabilities and Life Planning2
TLSC 262 Assistive and Adaptive Technology 2TLSC 263Transition Planning2
TLSC 300A Professional Learning Communities 0TLSC 300BProfessional Learning Communities1
TLSC 310 Language and Literacy for Diverse Students 2TLSC 320Using Classroom Data in a Collaborative Env to
Advance Student Achievement2
TLSC 330 Discipline-Speciﬁc Literacy for Diverse Students 2TLSC 340Teaching and Learning in an Area of Specialization2
TLSC 350 Teaching and Learning with a Global Framework 4TLSC 360Developing Rigorous and Relevant Instruction &
Assessment3
TLSC 370 Design&Implement Rigorous&Rlvnt
Instrctn&Assmt: Tching Perform Assmt Prep3TLSC 380Tching, Lrning & Leading with Schools &
Communities Internship: Stud Tching12
Optional CoursesTLSC 231Teaching Science/Writing in Elem and Middle
GradesTLSC 232 Integrated Teaching/Learning Social Studies &
Writing in Elementary GradesInternational Affairs MA RequirementCoreINTA 420Comparative Political Systems3
INTA 430 Theories of International Politics 3INTA 475Political Analysis I3
Capstone Experience 3Select one of the following:INTA 470 Fieldwork in PLSC-InternshipPLSC 499Directed ReadingsPLSC 605 Master's StudyElectives  (p. 1373 ) 118In addition to the four core classes, students will take an additional
six elective courses, with no more than three offered by a single
department in the College of Arts and Sciences or another School
at Loyola. The core INTA courses in Political Science do not count
toward this three-course total, and thus a student may take three
Political Science courses in addition to the three core (required)
courses.Total Hours100
1Two Graduate-level International Affairs courses must be taken
Senior Year. These courses can count as major electives or general
electives. These two courses double-count for International Affairs MA
requirements.All of Loyola’s Bachelor of Science in Education (BSEd) degrees use the
Teaching, Learning, and Leading with Schools and Communities (TLLSC)
curriculum as its foundation. It’s an approach that will help you stand out
when you’re searching for your ﬁrst job.
The TLLSC curriculum focuses on hands-on learning. Your studies
will be built around four Cornerstones—partnering with schools and
communities, classroom diversity, ongoing classroom experience, and
participating in professional learning communities.
As you learn and grow, you’ll progress through the three  Phases
(https://www.luc.edu/education/academics/areasofstudy/
teachinglearningandleadingwithschoolsandcommunities/
bsedprogramphases/ ) of the program. These phases will guide you
through a comprehensive experience that will prepare you to make a
difference with learners in diverse settings.
List of International Affairs MA Elective Courses
The participating programs that will contribute classes include: Global
Studies, History, Philosophy, Political Science, Psychology, Sociology,
and Theology, Criminal Justice & Criminology, as well as the Schools of
Communication, Education, Business, Law, Health Sciences and Public
Health, and Social Work.
Please note that the courses listed might not be offered every year and
new courses may be added to this list. Students should talk with the
Graduate Program Director if they want to take a course that is not on
the list of elective courses to see whether the course can serve as an
elective.
College of Arts and Sciences
Code Title Hours
Criminal Justice and Criminology DepartmentCJC 416International Criminal Justice3
Methods CoursesCJC 403Research Methods and Program Evaluation3
CJC 404 Applied Data Analysis and Interpretation 4History DepartmentHIST 441 Women's & Gender History: Europe 3HIST 459Environmental History3
HIST 464 Transnational Urban History 3Methods CoursesHIST 483 Oral History: Method and Practice 3Modern Languages and Literatures DepartmentLanguage Research Tool: Although there is no language requirement,
students interested in honing their foreign language skills will have
the option of taking a 400-level language course (i.e., a course
beyond 101, 102, 103, and 104), and having that course count as one
of the six elective courses. Current language possibilities offered at
Loyola include Chinese, French, German, Italian, and Spanish.MLL also offers graduate-level courses in Spanish as part of their
master’s degree in Spanish. These courses are as follows and would
be open only to interested students with advanced writing, speaking,
and reading skills in Spanish. These courses are as follows:SPAN 405 Critical Methods (pan-Hispanic world) 3SPAN 490Hispanic Culture & Civilization (Latin American
ﬁlm, with a focus on human rights)3
Philosophy DepartmentPHIL 459Philosophy of Law3

--- Page 1343 ---
1374  Special Education/International Affairs (BSEd/MA)
PHIL 463 Virtue Ethics (includes non-Western philosophy) 3PHIL TBDCritical Race Theory (originally taught as a “special
topics” course; is being turned into a permanent
course)PHIL 480 Social & Political Philosophy (focuses on global
development on a regular basis)3Methods CoursesPHIL 400 Philosophy Research Tools 3Political Science DepartmentPLSC 421 Democratic Political Systems 3PLSC 422Authoritarian Political Systems3
PLSC 431 Formulation US Foreign Policy 3PLSC 432Comparative Foreign Policy Analysis3
PLSC 433 International Organization 3PLSC 435International Political Economics3
PLSC 436 International Conflict 3Methods CoursesPLSC 401 Intro to Research Design & Method 3PLSC 476Political Analysis II3
Psychology DepartmentPSYC 460Social Psychological Theory3
PSYC 461 Attitude and Attitude Change 3PSYC 474Research in Group Dynamics3
PSYC 484 Prejudice and Intergroup Relations 3Methods CoursesPSYC 486 Methods of Program Evaluation 3Sociology DepartmentSOCL 418 Demography 3SOCL 423Social Movements3
SOCL 426 Sociology of Gender 3SOCL 441Sociology of Religion3
SOCL 447 Sociology of Culture 3SOCL 461Race & Ethnicity3
Methods CoursesSOCL 410Logic of Sociological Inquiry3
SOCL 412 Qualitative Methods in Social Research 3SOCL 414Statistical Methods Analysis I3
SOCL 415 Statistical Methods of Analysis II 3Theology DepartmentTHEO 459 Contemporary Theology 1-12THEO 460Seminar in History of Theology1-12
THEO 464 Religion & Politics in Christian History 3THEO 470Foundations Crititical Issues Theological Ethics1-12
THEO 480 Seminar in Christian Ethics 1-12
School of Education (International Education)
Code Title Hours
ELPS 405 Introduction to Educational Policy Analysis 3ELPS 448International Higher Education3
ELPS 455 Comparative Education 3ELPS 540Seminar in the History of Education3
ELPS 550 Seminar on Globalization and Education 3ELPS 555Seminar Comparative Education3School of Communication
Code Title Hours
COMM 401 Foundations of Global Strategic Communication 3COMM 402Organizational Leadership and Change
Management3
COMM 422 Global and Multicultural Audiences and
Stakeholders3
School of Social Work
Code Title Hours
SOWK 502 Power, Oppression, Privilege, and Social Justice 3SOWK 654Global Social Work: Reflective Practice for Justice
and Peace3
SOWK 730 Immigration Dynamics and U.S. Social Policy 3SOWK 731Social Work Practice with Refugees and
Immigrants3
SOWK 732 Migration, Social Justice, and Human Rights 3SOWK 733North American Migration Dynamics, Challenges &
Opportunity1-3
School of Law 
Code Title Hours
LAW 176 International Trade Law 11-3LAW 371International Business Trans 11-3
LAW 372 International Law and Practice 3LAW 388Global Access to Medicine: A Patent Perspective3
LAW 459 Intro to English Legal Profession 1LAW 568European Union Law 11-3
1Explanatory note about 1, 2, 3, and variable credit hour courses from
the School of Law: “For the law courses showing a range of hours (e.g.,
1-3 credit hours), students have the option to choose the number of
credits for enrollment within the range. For students opting for the
higher credits (i.e., enrollment in 3 credit hours rather than 1 credit hour
would require additional assignments and/or an examination). If the
MA students in these courses need to be enrolled in 3 credit hours,
the following notation can be included with the course listing:  ‘MA
students must choose the 3 credit option for enrollment in this course’. ”
Please note that courses to be included in this MA program will require
students choosing the 3-credit option.
School of Law - Classes Offered at the John Felice Rome Center
Code Title Hours
PLAW 101 Comparative and Ethical Lawyering for the Rule of
Law3PLAW 102History, Theory and Practice of Rule of Law for
Development3
PLAW 103 Theory and Practice of Assessments in Rule of
Law Advising2PLAW 104International Development Architecture3
PLAW 105 Sustainable Development Through International
Commerce and Investment2PLAW 106Design of Rule of Law Programs and Proposal
Preparation2
PLAW 107 Rule of Law in Conflict Prevention and
Peacebuilding2PLAW 108Legal Systems and Methods3

--- Page 1344 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1375
PLAW 250 Research and Writing on the Rule of Law 3PLAW 907Rule of Law Project Management, Monitoring &
Evaluation3
Parkinson School of Health Sciences and Public Health
Code Title Hours
MPBH 400 Determinants of Population Health 3MPBH 414Introduction to Global Health3
MPBH 417 Global Maternal and Child Health 3MPBH 422Population Health Planning & Management3
MPBH 424 Health Economics and Healthcare Financing 3MPBH 432Health Impact Assessment3
Quinlan School of Business
Code Title Hours
ECON 424 International Business Economics 3FINC 455International Financial Management3
HRER 422 Global HR Management 3HRER 502Global Employment Relations3
MARK 465 International Marketing 3MARK 461Research Methods in Marketing3
MGMT 446 International Business Ethics 3SCMG 486Global Logistics3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework. An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study. Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
Year One
Fall
TLSC 300A Professional Learning Communities 0TLSC 110The Profession and Our Program (TLLSC)1
TLSC 120 Bringing Language, Learning &
Development Theory into Practice2TLSC 130Sequence One: 130 Community Immersion1
UCWR 110 Writing Responsibly 3UNIV 101First Year Seminar1
CORE Scientiﬁc Literacy Tier I 3CORELiterary Knowledge & Experience Tier II3Submit all required documentation and background check prior to
program entry  Hours14
Spring
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities 1TLSC 140Teaching, Learning and Leading for Social
Justice1
TLSC 150 Constructive Learning Environments For
Diverse Students1TLSC 160Analyzing Culturally-Responsive Classroom
Instruction1
CIEP 104 Mathematics for Teachers I 3CIEP 206Children's Literature3
CORE Artistic Knowledge 3COREHistorical Knowledge Tier II3 Hours16
Year Two
FallTLSC 300AProfessional Learning Communities0
TLSC 210 Educational Policy For Diverse Students 2TLSC 221Individualized Instruction and Assessment
for Diverse Learners2
TLSC 222 Authentic Assessment and Instruction for
Bilingual Learners2ELPS 219History of American Education3
CORE Theological & Religious Studies Tier I 3CORESocietal & Cultural Knowledge Tier I3 Hours15
SpringTLSC 300BProfessional Learning Communities ( SPED )1
CIEP 359 Teaching Reading 3TLSC 231Teaching Science/Writing in Elem and
Middle Grades3
TLSC 232 Integrated Teaching/Learning Social
Studies & Writing in Elementary Grades3TLSC 260Typical and A-Typical Development2
TLSC 261 Signiﬁcant Disabilities and Life Planning 2TLSC 262Assistive and Adaptive Technology2
TLSC 263 Transition Planning 2Candidates seeking an endorsement in Elementary Education
should take the Elementary Content Area Test through the IL
Licensure Testing Service  Hours18
Year Three
FallTLSC 300AProfessional Learning Communities0
TLSC 310 Language and Literacy for Diverse
Students2TLSC 320Using Classroom Data in a Collaborative
Env to Advance Student Achievement2
TLSC 330 Discipline-Speciﬁc Literacy for Diverse
Students2COREPhilosophical Knowledge Tier I3
PLSC 101 American Politics 3ELECTIVEGeneral Elective Apply for One-Year Internship by October 1  Hours12
Spring
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities 1TLSC 340Teaching and Learning in an Area of
Specialization2
TLSC 350 Teaching and Learning with a Global
Framework4PHYS 101Liberal Arts Physics ( Tier II Scientiﬁc )3
CORE Theological and Religious Studies Tier II 3COREEthics3

--- Page 1345 ---
1376  Special Education/International Affairs (BSEd/MA)
Take the Content Area Test for Learning Behavior Specialist I
(#290). Register through the IL Licensure Testing Service As an alternative to #290, you may take both #155 and #163 until
these tests retire in 2023.  Hours16
Year Four
FallTLSC 300AProfessional Learning Communities0
TLSC 360 Developing Rigorous and Relevant
Instruction & Assessment3TLSC 370Design&Implement Rigorous&Rlvnt
Instrctn&Assmt: Tching Perform Assmt
Prep3
ELPS 302 Philosophy of Education 3CIEP 332School Wide Applications3
Apply for May Graduation in LOCUS by October 1  Register for Educational Teacher Performance Assessment
(edTPA) through Pearson Inc. Two (2) International Affairs Courses  16 Hours18
Spring
TLSC 300B Professional Learning Communities 1TLSC 380Tching, Lrning & Leading with Schools &
Communities Internship: Stud Tching6-12
Must have passed any Content Area Tests prior to Sequence 8
Student Teaching Must pass edTPA Two (2) International Affairs Courses  16 Hours13-19
Year Five
FallThree (3) International Affairs Courses  19 Hours9
SpringThree (3) International Affairs Courses  19 Hours9 Total Hours140-146
1Students are expected to take two graduate-level courses in each
semester of their senior year and a total of six graduate-level courses
in their ﬁfth year. There is no required course sequence, but we strongly
suggest that students ﬁrst take the required courses ( PLSC 420
Comparative Political Systems , PLSC 430 Theories of International
Politics , and PLSC 475 Political Analysis I ) whenever they are offered
before taking elective courses.
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  •Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.

--- Page 1346 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1377
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
Students will graduate from our program having achieved:
•a foundation for understanding and critiquing research related to
International Affairs, including methods training that leverages both
qualitative and quantitative data [International Affairs]
•knowledge of the principal theories of comparative politics and
international relations, as well as the key areas of research in these
two subﬁelds [International Affairs]
•an interdisciplinary understanding and appreciation of International
Affairs through coursework available within eight different
departments in the College of Arts and Sciences and four additional
Schools at Loyola [International Affairs]
•enhanced writing and critical thinking skills and dispositions through
class-based projects and a capstone experience [International Affairs]
•strengthened methods, research, or writing skills tailored to students
interests with advanced methods courses, language training, or the
writing of a master’s thesis. [International Affairs]
•You'll have accrued the equivalent of one year of full-time teaching
experience through all the hands-on, experiential learning
opportunities in Chicago's classrooms and community organizations,
so you will be ready to be at the head of your own classroom. With
the foundational knowledge from your Loyola education, you will
utilize theories, data, and research practices when making decisions

--- Page 1347 ---
1378  Statistics/Applied Statistics (BS/MS)
in your classroom and for your students and when assessing the
effectiveness of teaching on learning. [Special Education]
Statistics/Applied Statistics (BS/MS)
The BS/MS (Accelerated Bachelor's-Master's) program in Applied
Statistics is a ﬁve-year program that gives academically successful
Loyola undergraduates the opportunity to pursue the MS degree in
Applied Statistics while completing their BS degree. The applicant
can be pursuing any of the BS degrees offered by the Department of
Mathematics and Statistics. There are several advantages to enrolling in
the BS/MS program.
•The MS program requirement to take the GRE is waived for students
applying to the BS/MS program. The application fee to the program is
also waived.
•Students can begin taking their Masters courses during their senior
year of undergraduate study.
•The MS program in Applied Statistics requires 30 credits of graduate
courses. This generally takes one and a half years to complete.
Students in the BS/MS program are permitted to “double count” up to
three of their Loyola 400-level STAT courses for both their BS and MS
degrees; since this depends upon whether the BS is in Data Science,
Mathematics or Statistics, speak with the Director for further details.
Hence BS/MS students are required to take as few as 21 credits
(instead of 30 credits) of additional 400-level courses in the ﬁfth year,
and can ﬁnish the program in ﬁve years.
Further Information
If you have additional questions about the program, please
contact  Timothy O'Brien  (https://www.luc.edu/math/proﬁles/
obrientimothy.shtml/ ), Graduate Program Director for Applied Statistics.
Related Programs
Minor
•Statistics Minor  (p. 537)
Combined
•Mathematics (BS/MS)  (p. 1275 )
•Statistics/Mathematics (BS/MS)  (p. 1381 )
Curriculum
AP Credit Policies  (p. 520)
Code Title Hours
BS RequirementsMATH 161Calculus I4
MATH 162 Calculus II 4MATH 263Multivariable Calculus4
MATH 212 Linear Algebra 3STAT 203Introduction to Probability & Statistics3or STAT 335Introduction to Biostatistics
STAT 303 SAS Programming & Applied Statistics 3STAT 304Introduction to Probability3
STAT 305 Introduction to Mathematical Statistics 3STAT 307Statistical Design & Analysis of Experiments
(capstone)3STAT 308 Applied Regression Analysis 3Science RequirementSelect two of the following: 6ANTH 101Human OriginsBIOL 101 General Biology IBIOL 102General Biology IICHEM 160 Chemical Structure and PropertiesCHEM 180Chemical Reactivity IENVS 101 The Scientiﬁc Basis of Environmental IssuesPHYS 121College Physics I with Calculus Lecture/
DiscussionPHYS 122 College Physics II with Calculus Lecture/
DiscussionElectives  1Select three of the following: 9STAT 306Intro to Stochastic ProcessesSTAT 310 Categorical Data AnalysisSTAT 311Applied Survival AnalysisSTAT 321 Computational Aspects of Modeling and
SimulationSTAT 336Advanced BiostatisticsSTAT 337 Quantitative Methods in BioinformaticsSTAT 338Predictive AnalyticsSTAT 351 Nonparametric Statistical MethodsSTAT 370Data Science ConsultingSTAT 388 TopicsMS RequirementsSTAT 401 Introduction to Applied Statistics Using R 1STAT 403SAS Program & Applied Statistics3
STAT 404 Probability & Statistics I 3STAT 405Probability & Statistics II3
STAT 407 Statistical Design 3STAT 408Applied Regression Analysis3
STAT 495 Statistical Consulting Capstone 2Select Four (4) Elective Courses12
STAT 406 Stochastic ProcessesSTAT 410Categorical Data AnalysisSTAT 411 Applied Survival AnalysisSTAT 421Math Modeling & SimulationSTAT 426 Advanced Statistical InferenceSTAT 436Topics in BiostatisticsSTAT 438 Introduction to Predictive AnalyticsSTAT 444Longitudinal Data Analysis and Mixed ModelingSTAT 451 Applied Nonparametric MethodsSTAT 488Topics in StatisticsSTAT 498Independent Study StatisticsTotal Hours69
1These courses can be replaced with 400-level courses that can count
toward both degrees.
The BS degree has waivers for both Quantitative and Scientiﬁc core.

--- Page 1348 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1379
Specializations
Our flexible program allows students to focus on their interests by
choosing a specialization. Possibilities include:SpecializationDescription
Biostatistics The Biostatistics specialization covers
non- and pre-clinical statistical methods,
bioassay, statistical genetics, clinical trials, and
bioinformatics.Environmental
StatisticsThe Environmental Statistics specialization
addresses Geographic Information Systems (GIS),
spatial statistics, and environmetrics.
General Applied
StatisticsThe specialization in General Applied Statistics
includes non-medical applications such as
actuarial, commercial, data-mining, industrial,
marketing, and national defense.Predictive Analytics/
ModelingThe Predictive Modeling specialization focuses on
big data analytics and modeling.
Suggested Sequence of Courses
Note:  This is only one possibility. Among other things, depending on
initial math placement, which can range from MATH 100 to MATH 263,
the schedule will look very different. Especially for students starting at
MATH 161 or above, there is a lot of space to pursue a minor or even a
second major.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
FallMATH 161Calculus I4 Hours4
Spring
MATH 162 Calculus II 4STAT 203Introduction to Probability & Statistics3 Hours7
Year 2
FallMATH 263Multivariable Calculus4
STAT 303 SAS Programming & Applied Statistics 3Science Requirement3 Hours10
SpringMATH 212Linear Algebra3
STAT 308 Applied Regression Analysis 3Science Requirement3 Hours9
Year 3
FallSTAT 304Introduction to Probability3 Hours3
SpringSTAT 305Introduction to Mathematical Statistics3300-level Major Elective3 Hours6Year 4
Fall
STAT 307 Statistical Design & Analysis of
Experiments3400-level Major Course3 Hours6
Spring400-level Major Course3400-level Major Course  Hours3
Year 5Students complete MS requirements in consultation with the
Graduate Program Director.21 Hours21 Total Hours69
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they

--- Page 1349 ---
1380  Statistics/Applied Statistics (BS/MS)
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both theundergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•Upon completing the program, students majoring in statistics will be
able to properly use statistical reasoning as it applies to inferential
methods in a written analysis and/or oral presentation. [Statistics BS]

--- Page 1350 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1381
•Upon completing the program, students majoring in statistics
will be able to create and interpret statistical models including
understanding the limitations of the model in a written analysis and/
or oral presentation. [Statistics BS]
•Upon completing the program, students majoring in statistics will be
able to use statistical software to generate appropriate output for
data analysis. [Statistics BS]
•Students are expected to have mastered the art and science of
choosing and/or developing the appropriate statistical model(s) for
a given dataset-situation, and have mastered the skill of interpreting
the chosen model. [Applied Statistics MS]
•Students are expected to have received sufﬁcient exposure to basic
theorems and proofs used in introductory probability and statistical
inference. [Applied Statistics MS]
•Students are expected to have worked with data from application
ﬁelds such as public/global health, medical, industrial and
environmental research. [Applied Statistics MS]
•Students are expected to have received training to ethically apply
statistical training in the real world. [Applied Statistics MS]
•Students are expected to have obtained hands-on experience
and assimilated course material via our 2cr Statistical Consulting
capstone/practicum class. [Applied Statistics MS]
•Students are expected to have sufﬁciently mastered the course and
practicum material to either obtain gainful employment in the ﬁeld of
attend a Ph.D. program [Applied Statistics MS]
Statistics/Mathematics (BS/MS)
The accelerated BS/MS program gives academically successful Loyola
undergraduates the opportunity to pursue the MS degree in Mathematics
while completing their BS degree. Students earning a BS in Statistics
will acquire knowledge of a broad range of statistical techniques and
methods, an understanding of the mathematical underpinnings of these
methods and techniques, and the computational skills, such as R and
SAS, to apply and implement these methods using real data. Statistics
majors are in high demand in industry in a wide array of ﬁelds such as
medical research, technology companies, pharmaceuticals, insurance,
ﬁnance, government, genetics, public health, sports, and epidemiology to
name a few.
There are several advantages to pursuing the BS/MS program. Chief
among them are time and cost: by taking graduate courses during their
senior year (at the undergraduate tuition rate), students in the BS/MS
program save one semester over the usual path to a Master’s degree.
Additionally, students in the STEM ﬁelds holding an MS degree are more
competitive for jobs.
Related Programs
Major
•Mathematics (BS)  (p. 532)
•Statistics (BS)  (p. 535)
Combined
•Statistics/Applied Statistics (BS/MS)  (p. 1378 )
Curriculum
Students in the BS/MS program are permitted to take up to 10
credit hours of 400-level courses that would apply toward their
MS program requirements while completing their undergraduatedegree. Of these, nine credits may come 400-level courses that have
300-level equivalents that satisfy BS program requirements. The one-
credit course  MATH 401  should also be taken during the student’s
undergraduate career. (While it does not fulﬁll any speciﬁc undergraduate
program requirement, it does count towards the credit-hours requirement
for a degree from the College of Arts & Sciences.)
Code Title Hours
BS Requirements  1MATH 161Calculus I4
MATH 162 Calculus II 4MATH 263Multivariable Calculus4
MATH 212 Linear Algebra 3STAT 203Introduction to Probability & Statistics3or STAT 335Introduction to Biostatistics
STAT 303 SAS Programming & Applied Statistics 3STAT 304Introduction to Probability3
STAT 305 Introduction to Mathematical Statistics 3STAT 307Statistical Design & Analysis of Experiments
(capstone)3
STAT 308 Applied Regression Analysis 3Science RequirementSelect two of the following: 6ANTH 101Human OriginsBIOL 101 General Biology IBIOL 102General Biology IICHEM 160 Chemical Structure and PropertiesCHEM 180Chemical Reactivity IENVS 101 The Scientiﬁc Basis of Environmental IssuesPHYS 121College Physics I with Calculus Lecture/
DiscussionPHYS 122 College Physics II with Calculus Lecture/
DiscussionElectivesSelect three of the following: 9STAT 306Intro to Stochastic ProcessesSTAT 310 Categorical Data AnalysisSTAT 311Applied Survival AnalysisSTAT 321 Computational Aspects of Modeling and
SimulationSTAT 336Advanced BiostatisticsSTAT 337 Quantitative Methods in BioinformaticsSTAT 338Predictive AnalyticsSTAT 344 Longitudinal Data Analysis and Mixed ModellingSTAT 351Nonparametric Statistical MethodsSTAT 370 Data Science ConsultingSTAT 388TopicsMS RequirementsFoundational RequirementsMATH 416 Survey of Algebra 3MATH 454Survey of Analysis3
STAT 404 Probability & Statistics I 3
or STAT 408 Applied Regression AnalysisDepth Requirements

--- Page 1351 ---
1382  Statistics/Mathematics (BS/MS)
A second course in algebra or analysis chosen from: 3MATH 414Algebra IIMATH 415 Topics in Linear AlgebraMATH 452Analysis IIMATH 453 Complex AnalysisA second course in statistics or a cognate ﬁeld chosen from:3
STAT 404 Probability & Statistics ISTAT 405Probability & Statistics IISTAT 408 Applied Regression AnalysisSTAT 410Categorical Data AnalysisCOMP 429 Natural Language ProcessingCOMP 487Deep LearningDSCI 401 Introduction to Data ScienceOr courses in other programs, with approvalAdditional RequirementsMATH 401Introduction to Graduate Study in Mathematics1
MATH 495 Graduate Practicum in Mathematics 2Mathematics & Statistics ElectivesFour electives chosen from Mathematics and approved Statistics
courses at the 400 level.  212Total Hours69
1This degree has waivers for both Quantitative and Scientiﬁc core.
2These courses can be replaced with 400-level courses that can count
toward both degrees.
3A list of possible elective courses may be found  here  (p. 1618 ).
Suggested Sequence of Courses
Note:  This is only one possibility. Among other things, depending on
initial math placement, which can range from MATH 100 to MATH 263,
the schedule will look very different. Especially for students starting at
MATH 161 or above, there is a lot of space to pursue a minor or even a
second major.
Course Title Hours
Year 1
FallMATH 161Calculus I4 Hours4
Spring
MATH 162 Calculus II 4STAT 203Introduction to Probability & Statistics3 Hours7
Year 2
FallMATH 263Multivariable Calculus4
STAT 303 SAS Programming & Applied Statistics 3Science Requirement3 Hours10
SpringMATH 212Linear Algebra3
STAT 308 Applied Regression Analysis 3Science Requirement3 Hours9Year 3
FallSTAT 304Introduction to Probability3 Hours3
SpringSTAT 305Introduction to Mathematical Statistics3 Hours3
Year 4
FallSTAT 307Statistical Design & Analysis of
Experiments3400-level Major Course3 Hours6
Spring
400-level Major Course 3400-level Major Course3 Hours6
Year 5Students complete MS requirements in consultation with the
Graduate Program Director.21 Hours21 Total Hours69
Further Information
Interested students should reach out to the Graduate Program Director
in their sophomore year (or early junior year) to optimize course selection
for their remaining semesters.
Program Policies
•AP Credit Policies  (p. 520)
•No 300-level courses will apply toward graduate requirements. 
•A student with credit for a 300-level MATH/STAT/COMP course that
has an equivalent 400-level offering may not take the 400-level course
for separate credit.
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.

--- Page 1352 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1383
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where thestudent is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.

--- Page 1353 ---
1384  Theology (BA/MA)
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•be able to construct mathematical proofs of basic theorems, and to
write these proofs clearly using correct grammatical constructs and
appropriate mathematical notation;
•have seen applications of mathematics to areas across mathematical
disciplines and outside of mathematical disciplines;
•receive the training sufﬁcient for acceptance into PhD programs or
professional schools, or for hire in mathematics related industries;
•receive training on how to act responsibly and ethically within the
discipline.
Theology (BA/MA)
The Department of Theology offers undergraduates the unique
opportunity to complete a combined BA/MA in Theology in just ﬁve years
(instead of the customary six). Upon completion of the degree, graduates
will be prepared to assume a variety of positions where theological
training and competence are in demand, such as teaching theology in a
high school/academy, developing educational programs for a parish, or
entrance into a doctoral program in theology or religious studies for those
interested in life as a professor.
The 5 year BA/MA in Theology aims to:
•Accelerate the overall time-to-graduation of a student.
•Reduce the total tuition cost of obtaining both degrees.
•Encourage excellent undergraduate students in Theology and
Religious Studies to continue their graduate studies at Loyola.
Related Programs
Major
•Religious Studies (BA)  (p. 678)
•Theology (BA)  (p. 682)
Combined
•Theology/International Affairs (BA/MA)  (p. 1388 )
Curriculum
Students pursuing their BA in Theology take seven entry level and
compulsory courses in that ﬁeld, leaving them with ﬁve Theology
electives to complete in the ﬁrst stage of the program. In the accelerateddegree, students would take four MA level courses during their senior
year - two 400-level courses that would count towards the elective
requirement for the major; two 400-level courses that would count
towards a student's general elective requirement. While there is some
possibility of flexibility here, the courses that would be the most
suitable for the Theology electives are  THEO 460 Seminar in History of
Theology  and two MA level courses in Bible, e.g. Old Testament and New
Testament at the 400 level.
Code Title Hours
BA RequirementsDoctrine Course  13
Select one of the following:THEO 100Christian TheologyTHEO 265 Sacraments and the Christian ImaginationTHEO 266Church & Global CulturesTHEO 267 Jesus ChristBible, Hebrew Bible/Old Testament Course3
Select one of the following:THEO 231Hebrew Bible/Old TestamentTHEO 302 Wisdom Literature and PsalmsTHEO 303PentateuchTHEO 304 Israel Conquest to ExileBible, New Testament3
Select one of the following:THEO 232New TestamentTHEO 311 The Meaning of Jesus ChristTHEO 313Gospels of Matthew, Mark & LukeChristian Thought Course  23Select one of the following:THEO 317 Christian Thought: Ancient-MedievalTHEO 318Christian Thought: Reformation to ModernNon-Christian Religious Tradition Course 3Select one of the following:THEO 107 Introduction to Religious StudiesTHEO 272JudaismTHEO 282 HinduismTHEO 295IslamTHEO 297 BuddhismTHEO 299Religions of AsiaTHEO 350 Topics in IslamTHEO 352Topics in BuddhismTHEO 353 Religious TraditionsTHEO 356Topics in JudaismTHEO 365 Women, Gender and Embodiment in IslamTHEO 366Contemporary Islamic Thought and MovementsEthics Course 3Select one of the following:THEO 185 Christian EthicsTHEO 186Global Religious EthicsTHEO 203 Social Justice and InjusticeTHEO 204Religious Ethics and the Ecological CrisisTHEO 293 Christian MarriageTHEO 340Foundations of Christian Morality

--- Page 1354 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1385
THEO 342 Perspectives on Life and DeathTHEO 343Contemporary Christian SexualityTHEO 344 Theology and EcologyTheology Capstone3
THEO 373 Theology Capstone 3Elective Credits  (p. 1385 )15
Any THEO 200-level or higher courseSelect ﬁve elective courses  4CATH 296 All Things Ignatian: Living and Learning in the
Jesuit TradMA Requirements30
Students may choose one of the following concentration areas.
(p.  )Courses in the concentrations are chosen from theology course
areas with the option for directed readings and independent study for
particular areas of study.Theological StudiesTwo (2) courses in Biblical Studies Area  (p. 1386 )Two (2) courses in Systematic or Historical Theology Area
(p. 1386 )Two (2) courses in Christian Ethics Area  (p. 1386 )Four Gradute-level electivesBiblical Languages and LiteratureFour courses in Major Biblical Language (Hebrew or Greek)Two courses in Minor Biblical Language (Hebrew or Greek)Two courses in Old TestamentTwo courses in New TestamentOne (1) course in Systematic or Historical Theology Area
(p. 1386 )One (1) course in Christian Ethics Area  (p. 1386 )Biblical StudiesFive (5) courses in Biblical Studies Area  (p. 1386 )One (1) course in Systematic or Historical Theology Area
(p. 1386 )One (1) course in Christian Ethics Area  (p. 1386 )Three Graduate ElectivesChristian EthicsFive (5) courses in Christian Ethics Area  (p. 1386 )Two (2) courses in Systematic or Historical Theology Area
(p. 1386 )Two (2) courses in Biblical Studies Area  (p. 1386 )Graduate ElectiveBioethics & Health Care PolicyBEHL 401Clinical Topics in BioethicsTwo (2) courses in Christian Ethics Area  (p. 1386 )Two (2) courses in Biblical Studies Area  (p. 1386 )Two (2) courses in Systematic or Historical Theology Area
(p. 1386 )Three courses in Bioethics  5Total Hours66
1Eligible students may substitute  HONR 101 Western Traditions -
Antiquity to the Middle Ages  / HONR D101 Developments Western
Thought I Discussion  for the Doctrine requirement.2Students may take the Christian Thought courses at the 400-level
- THEO 460 Seminar in History of Theology  - in order to fulﬁll the
requirement to complete two 400 level courses for the BA/MA.
3With prior approval from the undergraduate program director, students
may replace  THEO 373 Theology Capstone  with  THEO 353 Religious
Traditions .
4At least seven (7) of the 12 courses required for the major must be at
the 300-level or higher. With prior approval from the undergraduate
program director, two 400 level Masters courses will be taken senior
year and will be double-counted as credits for both the BA and the MA
degrees. Courses used for other Theology major requirements cannot
be used as electives.
5One course in Bioethics may be taken at the Neiswanger Institute.
Elective Courses
Listing of 200-Level and 300-Level THEO Courses
Code Title Hours
THEO 203 Social Justice and Injustice 3THEO 204Religious Ethics and the Ecological Crisis3
THEO 231 Hebrew Bible/Old Testament 3THEO 232New Testament3
THEO 265 Sacraments and the Christian Imagination 3THEO 266Church & Global Cultures3
THEO 267 Jesus Christ 3THEO 272Judaism3
THEO 276 Black World Religion 3THEO 278Religion & Gender3
THEO 279 Roman Catholicism 3THEO 280Religion & Interdisciplinary Studies3
THEO 281 Christianity Through Time 3THEO 282Hinduism3
THEO 293 Christian Marriage 3THEO 295Islam3
THEO 297 Buddhism 3THEO 299Religions of Asia3
THEO 302 Wisdom Literature and Psalms 3THEO 303Pentateuch3
THEO 304 Israel Conquest to Exile 3THEO 308Biblical Hebrew I3
THEO 309 Biblical Hebrew II 3THEO 311The Meaning of Jesus Christ3
THEO 313 Gospels of Matthew, Mark & Luke 3THEO 317Christian Thought: Ancient-Medieval3
THEO 318 Christian Thought: Reformation to Modern 3THEO 330Liberation Theology3
THEO 331 Theology of Secularization 3THEO 340Foundations of Christian Morality3
THEO 342 Perspectives on Life and Death 3THEO 343Contemporary Christian Sexuality3
THEO 344 Theology and Ecology 3THEO 348Supervised Ministry3
THEO 349 Theological Topics for the Bioethics Capstone 3THEO 350Topics in Islam3
THEO 352 Topics in Buddhism 3

--- Page 1355 ---
1386  Theology (BA/MA)THEO 353Religious Traditions3
THEO 356 Topics in Judaism 3THEO 365Women, Gender and Embodiment in Islam3
THEO 366 Contemporary Islamic Thought and Movements 3THEO 373Theology Capstone3
THEO 376 Language and Faith 3THEO 378Theology and Culture3
THEO 382 Readings-Liturgy 3THEO 383Theology Arts & Literature1-3
THEO 392 Readings in Theology 3THEO 393Seminar3
THEO 395 Theology Tutorial 3
Biblical Studies Area
Code Title Hours
THEO 401 Tutorial in Biblical Studies 3THEO 403Topics in Rabbinic & Medieval Literature3
THEO 404 History of Israel 3THEO 405Formation of The Pentateuch3
THEO 406 Basic Hebrew Grammar 3THEO 407Hebrew Exegesis3
THEO 418 Theological Prophets-Ancient Israel 3THEO 420Seminar3
THEO 421 Directed Reading in Bible Studies 1-3THEO 422Directed Reading in Bible Studies3
THEO 424 The Synoptic Gospels 3THEO 425Luke-Acts & New Testament Church3
THEO 427 St Paul's Contribution to Christianity 3THEO 429Person of Jesus in New Testament3
THEO 515 Gospels in Early Christianity 3THEO 517Early Christian Letters1-12
THEO 519 Latr Nt-Subapost Writ 3THEO 523Cultural-Religious Environment Early Christianity3
THEO 527 Various Community Early Christianity 3
Systematic & Historical Theology Area
Code Title Hours
THEO 436 Christology 3THEO 437Mystery of God in Christian Theology3
THEO 440 Seminar in Systematic Theology 1-12THEO 441Directed Reading in Systematic Theology3
THEO 447 Philosophical Theology 3THEO 449Phenomenology of Religion3
THEO 459 Contemporary Theology 1-12THEO 460Seminar in History of Theology1-12
THEO 461 Directed Readings in History of Theology 3THEO 464Religion & Politics in Christian History3
THEO 530 Seminar - Variable Titles 1-12THEO 536Christian Doctrine-Catholic Theology3
THEO 560 Contemporary Authors 1-12Christian Ethics Area
Code Title Hours
THEO 470 Foundations Crititical Issues Theological Ethics 1-12THEO 475Natural Law & Theological Ethics3
THEO 477 Feminist Issues in Theology and Ethics 3THEO 478Issues in Medical Ethics3
THEO 480 Seminar in Christian Ethics 1-12THEO 481Directed Readings Christian Ethics3
THEO 570 Fundamental Issues in Christian Ethics 1-12THEO 573Roman Catholic Ethics3
THEO 575 Religious Ethics and Social Theory 3THEO 580Christian Social Ethics3
THEO 585 Issues Applied Theology Ethics 3
Concentration Descriptions
The Master of Arts in Theology requires 30 credit hours of coursework
and a comprehensive examination. The following descriptions are
provided to aid in choosing a concentration area:
•Theological Studies : emphasizes exposure to the full range of
theological investigation.
•Biblical Languages and Literature : provides students with the initial
language and biblical study necessary to apply to doctoral programs
in Biblical Studies. Half of the coursework is in biblical Greek and
Hebrew. Note: requires an additional 6 credit hours due to intensive
language requirements.
•Biblical Studies : directed towards students with a particular interest
in Biblical Studies, but does not incorporate the language study
necessary for doctoral work in Biblical Studies.
•Christian Ethics : focuses on coursework in Christian Ethics with
similarities to the concentration in Theological Studies for a
comprehensive overall coursework. 
•Bioethics & Health Care Policy : offered jointly with the Neiswanger
Institute for Bioethics and Healthcare Leadership. This concentration
is appropriate for students interested in pursuing a social ethical
understanding of bioethics. Courses in this concentration address
the history of bioethics including the issues of racism and
eugenics; methods and approaches in medical ethics and bioethics
(ethnography, narrative bioethics, feminist bioethics); and topics in
bioethics such as reproductive medicine and reproductive justice,
genetics, disability ethics, spiritual care ethics, end of life, and
healthcare justice.
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon

--- Page 1356 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1387
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our mostcapable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level

--- Page 1357 ---
1388  Theology/International Affairs (BA/MA)
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•Demonstrate knowledge of the sources and historical development
of beliefs and practices of Christianity with particular attention to the
Roman Catholic tradition.
•Apply scholarly methods to the understanding of scripture.
•Demonstrate familiarity with key theological concepts and
doctrines of the Christian faith (e.g., Christology, trinity, ecclesiology,
sacramental theology, etc.) as enunciated by at least two theologians.
•Demonstrate foundational knowledge of at least one other religious
tradition outside of Christianity.
•Demonstrate an understanding of how Christian perspectives and
sources inform responses to pressing ethical questions.
Theology/International Affairs (BA/
MA)
The growing interconnectedness of the world’s almost 200 countries,
termed globalization, and the rising impacts of foreign affairs on our
daily lives increasingly require individuals with advanced knowledge
of International Affairs. The Accelerated BA/MA in Theology and
International Affairs allows students to explore global problems and
interactions from an interdisciplinary perspective that makes use of
eight Arts and Sciences academic departments and four additional
colleges. Students will have the flexibility to tailor their program to ﬁt
their individual interests. Students can fulﬁll a capstone experience by
participating in an internship, taking a study abroad class, writing a paper
for publication, or writing a master’s thesis.
Loyola University Chicago and the City of Chicago together serve as the
ideal location for an MA in International Affairs: Loyola embodies a long
commitment to interdisciplinary education; and Chicago is consistently
ranked as one of the top ten global cities in the world. The program offers
a unique urban setting for students interested in the advanced study of
International Affairs.The majority of full-time students are expected to ﬁnish the program
in 5 years, as opposed to the six years if both programs are pursued
separately. Undergraduate students from participating programs at
Loyola will be able to pursue an accelerated BA/MA in Theology and
International Affairs.
Students will also be able to take graduate courses in the School of
Communication, the School of Education (International Education), the
School of Law, Parkinson School of Health Sciences and Public Health,
Quinlan School of Business, and the School of Social Work.
Related Programs
Major
•Theology (BA)  (p. 682)
Minor
•Theology Minor  (p. 685)
Combined
•Theology (BA/MA)  (p. 1384 )
Curriculum
For the BA, students will complete requirements for the Bachelor's
degree, and graduate level courses may be used as electives.  For the MA,
students will take a total of ten classes (30 credit hours) to complete the
program: Four required core classes, including a capstone experience,
and an additional six elective classes, with no more than three offered by
a single department in the College of Arts & Sciences or another School
at Loyola.
Code Title Hours
Required BA CoursesDoctrine  13
Select one of the following: 3THEO 100Christian TheologyTHEO 265 Sacraments and the Christian ImaginationTHEO 266Church & Global CulturesTHEO 267 Jesus ChristBible, Hebrew Bible, Old Testament3
Select one of the following:THEO 231Hebrew Bible/Old TestamentTHEO 302 Wisdom Literature and PsalmsTHEO 303PentateuchTHEO 304 Israel Conquest to ExileBible, New Testament3
Select one of the following:THEO 232New TestamentTHEO 311 The Meaning of Jesus ChristTHEO 313Gospels of Matthew, Mark & LukeChristian Thought 3Select one of the following:THEO 317 Christian Thought: Ancient-MedievalTHEO 318Christian Thought: Reformation to ModernNon-Christian Religious Tradition 3Select one of the following:3
THEO 107 Introduction to Religious Studies

--- Page 1358 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1389THEO 272JudaismTHEO 282 HinduismTHEO 350Topics in IslamTHEO 352 Topics in BuddhismTHEO 353Religious TraditionsTHEO 356 Topics in JudaismTHEO 365Women, Gender and Embodiment in IslamTHEO 366 Contemporary Islamic Thought and MovementsTHEO 295IslamTHEO 297 BuddhismTHEO 299Religions of AsiaEthicsSelect one of the following:3
THEO 185 Christian EthicsTHEO 186Global Religious EthicsTHEO 203 Social Justice and InjusticeTHEO 293Christian MarriageTHEO 204 Religious Ethics and the Ecological CrisisTHEO 340Foundations of Christian MoralityTHEO 342 Perspectives on Life and DeathTHEO 343Contemporary Christian SexualityTHEO 344 Theology and EcologyTheology Capstone  2THEO 373 Theology Capstone 23
or THEO 280 Religion & Interdisciplinary StudiesElective Credits  (p. 1389 ) 315
Select ﬁve elective coursesRequired MA CoursesCOREINTA 420Comparative Political Systems3
INTA 430 Theories of International Politics 3INTA 475Political Analysis I3
Capstone Experience 3Select one of the following:INTA 470 Fieldwork in PLSC-InternshipPLSC 499Directed ReadingsPLSC 605 Master's StudyElectives  (p. 1390 ) 418In addition to the four core classes, students will take an additional
six elective courses, with no more than three offered by a single
department in the College of Arts and Sciences or another School
at Loyola. The core INTA courses in Political Science do not count
toward this three-course total, and thus a student may take three
Political Science courses in addition to the three core (required)
courses.Total Hours60
1Eligible students may substitute  HONR 101  Western Traditions -
Antiquity to the Middle Ages /HONR D101  Developments Western
Thought I Discussion  for Doctrine requirement.
2With prior approval from the undergraduate program director, students
may replace  THEO 373  Theology Capstone  or THEO 280 Religion &
Interdisciplinary Studies  (Engaged Learning) with  THEO 353  ReligiousTraditions . THEO 280  Religion & Interdisciplinary Studies  must be taken
as an  Engaged Learning Course .
3With prior approval from the undergraduate program director, up to two
elective courses may be taken outside the Department of Theology.
Four Graduate-level International Affairs courses must be taken
Senior Year. These courses can count as major electives or general
electives. These four courses double-count for International Affairs MA
requirements.
The participating programs that will contribute classes include: Global
Studies, History, Philosophy, Political Science, Psychology, Sociology,
and Theology, Criminal Justice & Criminology, as well as the Schools of
Communication, Education, Business, Law, Health Sciences and Public
Health, and Social Work.
BA Elective Courses
Listing of 200-Level and 300-Level THEO Courses
Code Title Hours
THEO 203 Social Justice and Injustice 3THEO 204Religious Ethics and the Ecological Crisis3
THEO 231 Hebrew Bible/Old Testament 3THEO 232New Testament3
THEO 265 Sacraments and the Christian Imagination 3THEO 266Church & Global Cultures3
THEO 267 Jesus Christ 3THEO 272Judaism3
THEO 276 Black World Religion 3THEO 278Religion & Gender3
THEO 279 Roman Catholicism 3THEO 280Religion & Interdisciplinary Studies3
THEO 281 Christianity Through Time 3THEO 282Hinduism3
THEO 293 Christian Marriage 3THEO 295Islam3
THEO 297 Buddhism 3THEO 299Religions of Asia3
THEO 302 Wisdom Literature and Psalms 3THEO 303Pentateuch3
THEO 304 Israel Conquest to Exile 3THEO 308Biblical Hebrew I3
THEO 309 Biblical Hebrew II 3THEO 311The Meaning of Jesus Christ3
THEO 313 Gospels of Matthew, Mark & Luke 3THEO 317Christian Thought: Ancient-Medieval3
THEO 318 Christian Thought: Reformation to Modern 3THEO 330Liberation Theology3
THEO 331 Theology of Secularization 3THEO 340Foundations of Christian Morality3
THEO 342 Perspectives on Life and Death 3THEO 343Contemporary Christian Sexuality3
THEO 344 Theology and Ecology 3THEO 348Supervised Ministry3
THEO 349 Theological Topics for the Bioethics Capstone 3THEO 350Topics in Islam3

--- Page 1359 ---
1390  Theology/International Affairs (BA/MA)
THEO 352 Topics in Buddhism 3THEO 353Religious Traditions3
THEO 356 Topics in Judaism 3THEO 365Women, Gender and Embodiment in Islam3
THEO 366 Contemporary Islamic Thought and Movements 3THEO 373Theology Capstone3
THEO 376 Language and Faith 3THEO 378Theology and Culture3
THEO 382 Readings-Liturgy 3THEO 383Theology Arts & Literature1-3
THEO 392 Readings in Theology 3THEO 393Seminar3
THEO 395 Theology Tutorial 3
List of MA Elective Courses
Please note that the courses listed might not be offered every year and
new courses may be added to this list. Students should talk with the
Graduate Program Director if they want to take a course that is not on
the list of elective courses to see whether the course can serve as an
elective.
College of Arts and Sciences
Code Title Hours
Criminal Justice and Criminology DepartmentCJC 416International Criminal Justice3
Methods CoursesCJC 403Research Methods and Program Evaluation3
CJC 404 Applied Data Analysis and Interpretation 4History DepartmentHIST 441 Women's & Gender History: Europe 3HIST 459Environmental History3
HIST 464 Transnational Urban History 3Methods CoursesHIST 483 Oral History: Method and Practice 3Modern Languages and Literatures DepartmentLanguage Research Tool: Although there is no language requirement,
students interested in honing their foreign language skills will have
the option of taking a 400-level language course (i.e., a course
beyond 101, 102, 103, and 104), and having that course count as one
of the six elective courses. Current language possibilities offered at
Loyola include Chinese, French, German, Italian, and Spanish.MLL also offers graduate-level courses in Spanish as part of their
master’s degree in Spanish. These courses are as follows and would
be open only to interested students with advanced writing, speaking,
and reading skills in Spanish. These courses are as follows:SPAN 405 Critical Methods (pan-Hispanic world) 3SPAN 490Hispanic Culture & Civilization (Latin American
ﬁlm, with a focus on human rights)3
Philosophy DepartmentPHIL 459Philosophy of Law3
PHIL 463 Virtue Ethics (includes non-Western philosophy) 3PHIL TBDCritical Race Theory (originally taught as a “special
topics” course; is being turned into a permanent
course)PHIL 480 Social & Political Philosophy (focuses on global
development on a regular basis)3Methods CoursesPHIL 400 Philosophy Research Tools 3Political Science DepartmentPLSC 421 Democratic Political Systems 3PLSC 422Authoritarian Political Systems3
PLSC 431 Formulation US Foreign Policy 3PLSC 432Comparative Foreign Policy Analysis3
PLSC 433 International Organization 3PLSC 435International Political Economics3
PLSC 436 International Conflict 3Methods CoursesPLSC 401 Intro to Research Design & Method 3PLSC 476Political Analysis II3
Psychology DepartmentPSYC 460Social Psychological Theory3
PSYC 461 Attitude and Attitude Change 3PSYC 474Research in Group Dynamics3
PSYC 484 Prejudice and Intergroup Relations 3Methods CoursesPSYC 486 Methods of Program Evaluation 3Sociology DepartmentSOCL 418 Demography 3SOCL 423Social Movements3
SOCL 426 Sociology of Gender 3SOCL 441Sociology of Religion3
SOCL 447 Sociology of Culture 3SOCL 461Race & Ethnicity3
Methods CoursesSOCL 410Logic of Sociological Inquiry3
SOCL 412 Qualitative Methods in Social Research 3SOCL 414Statistical Methods Analysis I3
SOCL 415 Statistical Methods of Analysis II 3Theology DepartmentTHEO 459 Contemporary Theology 1-12THEO 460Seminar in History of Theology1-12
THEO 464 Religion & Politics in Christian History 3THEO 470Foundations Crititical Issues Theological Ethics1-12
THEO 480 Seminar in Christian Ethics 1-12
School of Education (International Education)
Code Title Hours
ELPS 405 Introduction to Educational Policy Analysis 3ELPS 448International Higher Education3
ELPS 455 Comparative Education 3ELPS 540Seminar in the History of Education3
ELPS 550 Seminar on Globalization and Education 3ELPS 555Seminar Comparative Education3
 School of Communication
Code Title Hours
COMM 401 Foundations of Global Strategic Communication 3COMM 402Organizational Leadership and Change
Management3

--- Page 1360 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1391
COMM 422 Global and Multicultural Audiences and
Stakeholders3
School of Social Work
Code Title Hours
SOWK 502 Power, Oppression, Privilege, and Social Justice 3SOWK 654Global Social Work: Reflective Practice for Justice
and Peace3
SOWK 730 Immigration Dynamics and U.S. Social Policy 3SOWK 731Social Work Practice with Refugees and
Immigrants3
SOWK 732 Migration, Social Justice, and Human Rights 3SOWK 733North American Migration Dynamics, Challenges &
Opportunity1-3
School of Law 
Code Title Hours
LAW 176 International Trade Law 11-3LAW 371International Business Trans 11-3
LAW 372 International Law and Practice 3LAW 388Global Access to Medicine: A Patent Perspective3
LAW 459 Intro to English Legal Profession 1LAW 568European Union Law 11-3
1Explanatory note about 1, 2, 3, and variable credit hour courses from
the School of Law: “For the law courses showing a range of hours (e.g.,
1-3 credit hours), students have the option to choose the number of
credits for enrollment within the range. For students opting for the
higher credits (i.e., enrollment in 3 credit hours rather than 1 credit hour
would require additional assignments and/or an examination). If the
MA students in these courses need to be enrolled in 3 credit hours,
the following notation can be included with the course listing:  ‘MA
students must choose the 3 credit option for enrollment in this course’. ”
Please note that courses to be included in this MA program will require
students choosing the 3-credit option.
 School of Law - Classes Offered at the John Felice Rome Center
Code Title Hours
PLAW 101 Comparative and Ethical Lawyering for the Rule of
Law3PLAW 102History, Theory and Practice of Rule of Law for
Development3
PLAW 103 Theory and Practice of Assessments in Rule of
Law Advising2PLAW 104International Development Architecture3
PLAW 105 Sustainable Development Through International
Commerce and Investment2PLAW 106Design of Rule of Law Programs and Proposal
Preparation2
PLAW 107 Rule of Law in Conflict Prevention and
Peacebuilding2PLAW 108Legal Systems and Methods3
PLAW 250 Research and Writing on the Rule of Law 3PLAW 907Rule of Law Project Management, Monitoring &
Evaluation3Parkinson School of Health Sciences and Public Health 
Code Title Hours
MPBH 400 Determinants of Population Health 3MPBH 414Introduction to Global Health3
MPBH 417 Global Maternal and Child Health 3MPBH 422Population Health Planning & Management3
MPBH 424 Health Economics and Healthcare Financing 3MPBH 432Health Impact Assessment3
Quinlan School of Business 
Code Title Hours
ECON 424 International Business Economics 3FINC 455International Financial Management3
HRER 422 Global HR Management 3HRER 502Global Employment Relations3
MARK 465 International Marketing 3MARK 461Research Methods in Marketing3
MGMT 446 International Business Ethics 3SCMG 486Global Logistics3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
In order to provide optimal flexibility in the program, there is no
required course sequence. However, students are expected to take
two graduate-level  course s in each semester of their senior year and
a total of six graduate-level  course s in their ﬁfth year. There is no
required  course  sequence , but we strongly suggest that students ﬁrst
take the required  course s (PLSC 420, PLSC 430, and PLSC 475) whenever
they are offered before taking elective  course s.
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1

--- Page 1361 ---
1392  Theology/International Affairs (BA/MA)
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the

--- Page 1362 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1393
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
Students will graduate from our program having achieved:
•a foundation for understanding and critiquing research related to
International Affairs, including methods training that leverages both
qualitative and quantitative data [International Affairs]
•knowledge of the principal theories of comparative politics and
international relations, as well as the key areas of research in these
two subﬁelds [International Affairs]
•an interdisciplinary understanding and appreciation of International
Affairs through coursework available within eight different
departments in the College of Arts and Sciences and four additional
Schools at Loyola [International Affairs]
•enhanced writing and critical thinking skills and dispositions through
class-based projects and a capstone experience [International Affairs]
•strengthened methods, research, or writing skills tailored to students
interests with advanced methods courses, language training, or the
writing of a master’s thesis. [International Affairs]
•Accurately describe basic sources and historical development of
beliefs and practices of Christianity, with a particular focus on the
Roman Catholic tradition. [Theology]
•Analyze a biblical text using academic tools. [Theology]
•Compare at least two different approaches to basic theological
concepts. [Theology]
•Describe beliefs and practices of one religion other than
Christianity. [Theology]
•Name the four sources of Christian ethics: Scripture, tradition, reason,
and experience. [Theology]
•Analyze and critically evaluate arguments from at least two different
Christian ethicists on a contemporary ethical issue. [Theology]
Theoretical Physics and Applied
Mathematics/Applied Statistics (BS/
MS)
The Accelerated Bachelor's Master's program allows undergraduate
students to receive their Master's Degree in a total of ﬁve years.  Students
apply in their junior year and must complete all requirements for the
undergraduate and graduate programs.  They are able to ﬁnish the
program in only one additional year by double counting up to 9 credits
in their senior year towards both their Undergraduate Degree and their
Master's Degree.
Related Programs
Major
•Theoretical Physics and Applied Mathematics (BS)  (p. 537)Combined
•Mathematics/Applied Statistics (BS/MS)  (p. 1279 )
•Theoretical Physics and Applied Mathematics/Mathematics (BS/MS)
(p. 1396 )
Curriculum
AP Credit Policies  (p. 520)
Code Title Hours
BS RequirementsMathematics Course RequirementsMATH 161 Calculus I 4MATH 162Calculus II4
MATH 201 Introduction to Discrete Mathematics & Number
Theory3MATH 212Linear Algebra3
MATH 263 Multivariable Calculus 4MATH 264Ordinary Differential Equations3
MATH 313 Abstract Algebra 3MATH 351Introduction to Real Analysis I3
MATH 353 Introduction to Complex Analysis 3PHYS 130Introduction to Computational Physics3or MATH 215Object-Oriented Programming with Mathematics
Physics Course RequirementsPHYS 121College Physics I with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3
PHYS 111L College Physics Laboratory I 1PHYS 122College Physics II with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3
PHYS 112L College Physics Lab II 1PHYS 126FFreshman Projects1
PHYS 235 Modern Physics 3PHYS 235LModern Physics Laboratory1
PHYS 301 Mathematical Methods in Physics 3PHYS 314Theoretical Mechanics I3
PHYS 351 Electricity and Magnetism I 3PHYS 328Thermal Physical & Statistical Mechanics3
PHYS 338 Advanced Physics Laboratory 2PHYS 361Quantum Mechanics I3
MS RequirementsSTAT 401Introduction to Applied Statistics Using R1
STAT 403 SAS Program & Applied Statistics 3STAT 404Probability & Statistics I3
STAT 405 Probability & Statistics II 3STAT 407Statistical Design3
STAT 408 Applied Regression Analysis 3STAT 495Statistical Consulting Capstone2
Select Four (4) Elective Courses 12STAT 406Stochastic ProcessesSTAT 410 Categorical Data AnalysisSTAT 411Applied Survival AnalysisSTAT 421 Math Modeling & SimulationSTAT 426Advanced Statistical Inference

--- Page 1363 ---
1394  Theoretical Physics and Applied Mathematics/Applied Statistics (BS/MS)
STAT 436 Topics in BiostatisticsSTAT 438Introduction to Predictive AnalyticsSTAT 444 Longitudinal Data Analysis and Mixed ModelingSTAT 451Applied Nonparametric MethodsSTAT 488 Topics in StatisticsSTAT 498Independent Study StatisticsTotal Hours93
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
First Year
Fall
PHYS 121 College Physics I with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3PHYS 111LCollege Physics Laboratory I1
MATH 161 Calculus I 4UCWR 110Writing Responsibly3Core3 Hours14
Spring
PHYS 122 College Physics II with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3PHYS 112LCollege Physics Lab II1
PHYS 126F Freshman Projects 1MATH 162Calculus II4
COMP 215 /
MATH 215 
or PHYS 130Object Oriented Programming with
Mathematics 
or Introduction to Computational
Physics3Core3 Hours15
Second Year
FallPHYS 235Modern Physics3
PHYS 235L Modern Physics Laboratory 1MATH 263Multivariable Calculus4
MATH 264 Ordinary Differential Equations 3Core3 Hours14
SpringMATH 201Introduction to Discrete Mathematics &
Number Theory3
MATH 212 Linear Algebra 3PHYS 314Theoretical Mechanics I3
PHYS 301 Mathematical Methods in Physics 3Core3 Hours15Third Year
FallPHYS 351Electricity and Magnetism I3
MATH 313 Abstract Algebra 3MATH 351Introduction to Real Analysis I3
Core 3General Elective3 Hours15
SpringPHYS 361Quantum Mechanics I3
Core 3Core3
Core 3General Elective3 Hours15
Fourth Year
FallMATH 353Introduction to Complex Analysis3
PHYS 328 Thermal Physical & Statistical Mechanics 3Core3
Core 3Core3 Hours15
SpringPHYS 338Advanced Physics Laboratory2
Core 3Core3
400-level Major Course 3400-level Major Course3400-level Major Course3 Hours17
Fifth YearComplete MS requirements in consultation with the Graduate
Program Director.21 Hours21 Total Hours141
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely

--- Page 1364 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1395
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.

--- Page 1365 ---
1396  Theoretical Physics and Applied Mathematics/Mathematics (BS/MS)
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
Loyola University Chicago’s major in Theoretical Physics / Applied
Mathematics is an interdisciplinary program that provides extensive
training in both physics and mathematics. It prepares students for
graduate study in physics, mathematics, or applied mathematics;
careers in ﬁelds such as engineering or computer science that value
quantitative reasoning and mathematical modeling; or technical training
in professions like medicine, dentistry, or law.
Students majoring in Theoretical Physics / Applied Mathematics
possess a versatile set of skills that are well-suited to data science,
numerical modeling, and quantitative analysis. They may pursue
careers in higher education, at research institutes or government labs,
or in high-tech industries. Recent majors have gone on to world class
graduate programs in ﬁelds ranging from physics to neuroscience, and
programming jobs at major tech companies.
The course of study for the Theoretical Physics / Applied Mathematics
major covers the core classes in the Physics major, provides laboratory
experience, and adds a comprehensive mathematics component. Upon
completion of this program and the Master of Science program, students
will:
•Exhibit foundational knowledge in both physics and mathematics.
[BS]
•Be able to develop and interpret mathematical models that provide
both quantitative and qualitative understanding of physical
systems. [BS]
•Possess intermediate level laboratory skills that will serve as a
foundation for more advanced training in graduate or professional
school. [BS]
•Recognize how careful data collection and analysis helps develop or
falsify scientiﬁc theories. [BS]
•Demonstrate effective and ethical decision-making abilities in issues
related to the sciences. [BS]
•Mastered the art and science of choosing and/or developing the
appropriate statistical model(s) for a given dataset-situation, and
have mastered the skill of interpreting the chosen model. [MS]•Have received sufﬁcient exposure to basic theorems and proofs used
in introductory probability and statistical inference. [MS]
•Have worked with data from application ﬁelds such as public/global
health, medical, industrial and environmental research. [MS]
•Have received training to ethically apply statistical training in the real
world. [MS]
•Have obtained hands-on experience and assimilated course material
via our 2cr Statistical Consulting capstone/practicum class. [MS]
•Have sufﬁciently mastered the course and practicum material
to either obtain gainful employment in the ﬁeld of attend a Ph.D.
program [MS]
Theoretical Physics and Applied
Mathematics/Mathematics (BS/MS)
The accelerated BS/MS program gives academically successful Loyola
undergraduates the opportunity to pursue the MS degree in Mathematics
while completing their BS degree. Since the advent of statistical
mechanics, quantum mechanics, and the like, a solid foundation in
analysis, abstract algebra, and statistics is essential for students wishing
to study the basic physical laws governing our universe. Students
pursuing a BS in Theoretical Physics and Applied Mathematics with
gain exposure to these modern physical theories and to the abstract
mathematics underpinning them.
There are several advantages to pursuing the BS/MS program. Chief
among them are time and cost: by taking graduate courses during their
senior year (at the undergraduate tuition rate), students in the BS/MS
program save one semester over the usual path to a Master’s degree.
Additionally, students in the STEM ﬁelds holding an MS degree are more
competitive for jobs.
Related Programs
Major
•Theoretical Physics and Applied Mathematics (BS)  (p. 537)
Combined
•Mathematics (BS/MS)  (p. 1275 )
•Theoretical Physics and Applied Mathematics/Applied Statistics (BS/
MS) (p. 1393 )
Curriculum
The following are required to complete this accelerated bachelor's/
master's program:
•Successful completion of the Theoretical Physics and Applied
Mathematics BS, within the College of Arts & Sciences.
•Successful completion of the 30-credit Mathematics MS degree with
a GPA of 3.0 or higher.
Students in the BS/MS program are permitted to take up to 10
credit hours of 400-level courses that would apply toward their
MS program requirements while completing their undergraduate
degree. Of these, nine credits may come 400-level courses that have
300-level equivalents that satisfy BS program requirements. The one-
credit course  MATH 401  should also be taken during the student’s
undergraduate career. (While it does not fulﬁll any speciﬁc undergraduate

--- Page 1366 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1397
program requirement, it does count towards the credit-hours requirement
for a degree from the College of Arts & Sciences.)
Code Title Hours
BS RequirementsMathematics Course RequirementsMATH 161 Calculus I 4MATH 162Calculus II4
MATH 201 Introduction to Discrete Mathematics & Number
Theory3MATH 212Linear Algebra3
MATH 263 Multivariable Calculus 4MATH 264Ordinary Differential Equations3
MATH 313 Abstract Algebra 3MATH 351Introduction to Real Analysis I3
MATH 353 Introduction to Complex Analysis 3PHYS 130Introduction to Computational Physics3or MATH 215Object-Oriented Programming with Mathematics
Physics Course RequirementsPHYS 121College Physics I with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3
PHYS 111L College Physics Laboratory I 1PHYS 122College Physics II with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3
PHYS 112L College Physics Lab II 1PHYS 126FFreshman Projects1
PHYS 235 Modern Physics 3PHYS 235LModern Physics Laboratory1
PHYS 301 Mathematical Methods in Physics 3PHYS 314Theoretical Mechanics I3
PHYS 351 Electricity and Magnetism I 3PHYS 328Thermal Physical & Statistical Mechanics3
PHYS 338 Advanced Physics Laboratory 2PHYS 361Quantum Mechanics I3
MS RequirementsFoundational RequirementsMATH 416 Survey of Algebra 3MATH 454Survey of Analysis3
STAT 404 Probability & Statistics I 3
or STAT 408 Applied Regression AnalysisDepth RequirementsA second course in algebra or analysis chosen from: 3MATH 414Algebra IIMATH 415 Topics in Linear AlgebraMATH 452Analysis IIMATH 453 Complex AnalysisA second course in statistics or a cognate ﬁeld chosen from:3
STAT 404 Probability & Statistics ISTAT 405Probability & Statistics IISTAT 408 Applied Regression AnalysisSTAT 410Categorical Data AnalysisCOMP 429 Natural Language ProcessingCOMP 487Deep LearningDSCI 401 Introduction to Data ScienceOr courses in other programs, with approvalAdditional RequirementsMATH 401Introduction to Graduate Study in Mathematics1
MATH 495 Graduate Practicum in Mathematics 2Mathematics & Statistics ElectivesFour electives chosen from Mathematics and approved Statistics
courses at the 400 level.  112Total Hours93
1A list of possible elective courses may be found here  (p. 1618 ).
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The below sequence of courses is meant to be used as a suggested
path for completing coursework.  An individual student’s completion of
requirements depends on course offerings in a given term as well as the
start term for a major or graduate study.  Students should consult their
advisor for assistance with course selection.
Course Title Hours
First Year
Fall
PHYS 121 College Physics I with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3PHYS 111LCollege Physics Laboratory I1
MATH 161 Calculus I 4UCWR 110Writing Responsibly3Core3 Hours14
Spring
PHYS 122 College Physics II with Calculus Lecture/
Discussion3PHYS 112LCollege Physics Lab II1
PHYS 126F Freshman Projects 1MATH 162Calculus II4
COMP 215 /
MATH 215 
or PHYS 130Object Oriented Programming with
Mathematics 
or Introduction to Computational
Physics3Core3 Hours15
Second Year
FallPHYS 235Modern Physics3
PHYS 235L Modern Physics Laboratory 1MATH 263Multivariable Calculus4
MATH 264 Ordinary Differential Equations 3Core3 Hours14
SpringMATH 201Introduction to Discrete Mathematics &
Number Theory3
MATH 212 Linear Algebra 3PHYS 314Theoretical Mechanics I3

--- Page 1367 ---
1398  Theoretical Physics and Applied Mathematics/Mathematics (BS/MS)
PHYS 301 Mathematical Methods in Physics 3Core3 Hours15
Third Year
FallPHYS 351Electricity and Magnetism I3
MATH 313 Abstract Algebra 3MATH 351Introduction to Real Analysis I3
Core 3General Elective3 Hours15
SpringPHYS 361Quantum Mechanics I3
Core 3Core3
Core 3General Elective3 Hours15
Fourth Year
FallMATH 353Introduction to Complex Analysis3
PHYS 328 Thermal Physical & Statistical Mechanics 3Core3
Core 3Core3 Hours15
SpringPHYS 338Advanced Physics Laboratory2
Core 3Core3
400-level Major Course 3400-level Major Course3400-level Major Course3 Hours17
Fifth YearComplete MS requirements in consultation with the Graduate
Program Director.21 Hours21 Total Hours141
Program Policies
•AP Credit Policies  (p. 520)
•No 300-level courses will apply toward graduate requirements. 
•A student with credit for a 300-level MATH/STAT/COMP course that
has an equivalent 400-level offering may not take the 400-level course
for separate credit. 
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  •Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.

--- Page 1368 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1399
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
Loyola University Chicago’s major in Theoretical Physics / Applied
Mathematics is an interdisciplinary program that provides extensive
training in both physics and mathematics. It prepares students for
graduate study in physics, mathematics, or applied mathematics;
careers in ﬁelds such as engineering or computer science that value
quantitative reasoning and mathematical modeling; or technical training
in professions like medicine, dentistry, or law.
Students majoring in Theoretical Physics / Applied Mathematics
possess a versatile set of skills that are well-suited to data science,
numerical modeling, and quantitative analysis. They may pursue
careers in higher education, at research institutes or government labs,
or in high-tech industries. Recent majors have gone on to world class
graduate programs in ﬁelds ranging from physics to neuroscience, and
programming jobs at major tech companies.
The course of study for the Theoretical Physics / Applied Mathematics
major covers the core classes in the Physics major, provides laboratory
experience, and adds a comprehensive mathematics component. Upon
completion of this program and the Master of Science program, students
will:
•Exhibit foundational knowledge in both physics and mathematics.
[BS]

--- Page 1369 ---
1400  Web Technologies/Information Technology Leadership and Strategy (BA/MPS)
•Be able to develop and interpret mathematical models that provide
both quantitative and qualitative understanding of physical
systems. [BS]
•Possess intermediate level laboratory skills that will serve as a
foundation for more advanced training in graduate or professional
school. [BS]
•Recognize how careful data collection and analysis helps develop or
falsify scientiﬁc theories. [BS]
•Demonstrate effective and ethical decision-making abilities in issues
related to the sciences. [BS]
•be able to construct mathematical proofs of basic theorems, and to
write these proofs clearly using correct grammatical constructs and
appropriate mathematical notation [MS]
•have seen applications of mathematics to areas across mathematical
disciplines and outside of mathematical disciplines [MS]
•receive the training sufﬁcient for acceptance into PhD programs
or professional schools, or for hire in mathematics related
industries [MS]
•receive training on how to act responsibly and ethically within the
discipline [MS]
Web Technologies/Information
Technology Leadership and Strategy
(BA/MPS)
The BA Web Technologies/ MPS IT Leadership and Strategy program
is an accelerated, online program that gives academically successful
Loyola SCPS BA Web Technologies majors the opportunity to pursue
the MPS degree in IT Leadership and Strategy while completing their
BA degree. This program reduces the total number of courses needed
and the total time needed for the combined degrees. Current accelerated
bachelors/master’s degree programs at LUC allow qualiﬁed students to
take up to four graduate-level courses as undergraduates. This program
will allow students in the BA Web Technologies program to take four of
the courses from the MPS IT Leadership and Strategy in their senior year.
One course will be taken as part of the major and three will be taken as
elective courses and will count toward the degree requirements for both
programs.
Related Programs
Major
•Web Technologies (BA)  (p. 868)
Combined
•Web Technologies/Instructional Design (BA/MPS)  (p. 1403 )
Curriculum
Up to 12 credit hours can be shared between the undergraduate and
graduate degree. One of the MPS degree courses will count toward the
BA Web Technologies major requirements: COMP 417 Social and Ethical
Issues in Computing  (in lieu of COMP 317 ) and should be taken in the
students’ senior year as an undergraduate. The other graduate courses
from the MPS degree will be taken as electives during the student’s
senior year.Code Title Hours
BA RequirementsCOMP 317Social, Legal, and Ethical Issues in Computing 13
COMM 275 Web Design and Usability 3CPST 242Design for the Web3
CPST 342 Introduction to Web Application Development 3COMP 170Introduction to Object-Oriented Programming3
COMP 251 Introduction to Database Systems 3COMP 271Data Structures I3
CPST 291 Dynamic Programming Languages 3CPST 343Software Development for Mobile Devices3
CPST 325 Data Processing, Analysis, and Visualization 3CPST 248User Experience Design Fundamentals3
CPST 249 User Experience Design Tools and Techniques 3CPST 341User Experience Design to Drive Business3
SCPS CoursesCPST 200Introduction to Degree Completion3
CPST 201 Civic Identity and Development 3CPST 397Capstone3
Core RequirementsThe number of hours remaining toward Core requirements can vary
due to transfer credit.  2Mission Speciﬁc RequirementsMission speciﬁc requirements can vary from 0 to 15 credit hours
based on your prior credit.General Elective RequirementsStudents may have some general elective coursework to complete
if their transfer credit and remaining required hours (Core, mission
speciﬁc, major, etc.) do not total 120.MPS RequirementsCOMP 417Social and Ethical Issues in Computing 13
COMP 477 IT Project Management 3ITLS 445Introduction to IT : Networking, Cloud & Security3
ITLS 447 Cybersecurity Governance, Planning, and Incident
Response3ITLS 449Advanced Topics: Emerging Technologies3
ITLS 451 Human-Centered Management 3ITLS 453Developing Strategic Plans3Select three (3) ITLS Electives courses - 400-level or above  (p. 1401 )
39Total Hours75
1One of the MPS degree courses will count toward the BA Web
Technologies major requirements:  COMP 417 Social and Ethical
Issues in Computing  (in lieu of  COMP 317 ) and should be taken in the
students’ senior year as an undergraduate.
2Core Requirements -  Learn More  (p. 1405 )
3Electives will be selected from existing graduate courses (400 level
or higher) at Loyola University Chicago. They will typically be chosen
from SCPS (and may include courses in all graduate programs housed
in SCPS) and the Computer Science Department.  Electives will be
determined in conjunction with the program director.

--- Page 1370 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1401
Electives 
Code Title Hours
COMP 403 Operations Management 3COMP 420Software Systems Analysis3
COMP 422 Software Development for Wireless and Mobile
Devices3COMP 424Client-Side Web Design3
COMP 441 Human-Computer Interaction 3COMP 443Computer Networks3
COMP 447 Intrusion Detection and Computer Forensics 3COMP 448Network Security3
COMP 449 Wireless Networking and Security 3COMP 488Computer Science Topics1-4
INDN 420 Instructional Design Theories and Models 3INDN 421Design & Development of Instructional Materials3
INDN 430 Performance Improvement in Organizations 3INDN 431Fundamentals of Learning Analytics3
INDN 440 Applications of Human Centered Design Principles 3MPP 400Policy Design and Analysis3
MPP 401 Analytical Tools in Public Policy 3MPP 403Public Budget and Finance3
MPP 404 Public Policy Process 3MPP 405Statistical Methods & Analysis for Public Policy I3
MPP 406 Statistical Methods & Analysis Public Policy II 3MPP 410Special Topics in Public Policy3
MPP 413 Intergovernmental Relations 3PSLD 400Introduction to Public Service3
PSLD 402 Foundations of Global Strategic Communication 3PSLD 403Program Management and Development3
PSLD 404 Data, Visualization and Evaluation 3PSLD 405Design Thinking in Mitigating Complex Social
Problems3
PSLD 430 Understanding and Mitigating Poverty 3PSLD 431Foundations of Social and Sustainable
Development3
PSLD 432 Gender Diversity & Sustainable Social
Development3PSLD 433Social Analysis Inequality Poverty and
Development3
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The School of Continuing and Professional Studies provides a high-touch
advising model in order to incorporate the professional and educational
outcomes of the student as well as any transfer credit accepted.  In
order to provide students with maximum flexibility in their education and
because everyone’s academic background will vary, advisors will work
directly with students to determine an appropriate sequence of courses
starting at admission into their respective program based on their needs
and expected time to completion.
One of the MPS degree courses will count toward the BA Web
Technologies major requirements:  COMP 417  Social and Ethical Issues
in Computing  (in lieu of  COMP 317 ) and should be taken in the students’
senior year as an undergraduate.Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.

--- Page 1371 ---
1402  Web Technologies/Information Technology Leadership and Strategy (BA/MPS)
1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduatecredit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•Develop modern, standards-compliant web applications while
demonstrating proﬁciency in best practices, utilizing contemporary
web technology solutions, and effectively managing software project
versions through version control techniques. [Web Technologies]
•Critique website aesthetics, accessibility, and usability and apply
graphic design principles to strategically align business objec tives
with UX Design goals by effectively utilizing the User Experience (UX)
Design process. [Web Technologies]
•Utilize client-side services to interact with server-side APIs, model
and implement structured and unstructured data, and perform data
analysis using standard toolkits and libraries. [Web Technologies]
•Develop programs using fundamental programming constructs, data
structures, and algorithms, while demonstrating the ability to choose
appropriate solutions and justify their selections. [Web Technologies]
•Apply object-oriented principles (abstraction, delegation, inheritance,
and polymorphism) and design patterns, and demonstrate proﬁciency

--- Page 1372 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1403
in programming, testing, and debugging using a mainstream object-
oriented language. [Web Technologies]
•Demonstrate knowledge of legal and ethical considerations in
information technology and apply technical and ethical solutions.
[Web Technologies]
•Evaluate key policies, processes, and ethical decision making
involved in the oversight of information technology within an
organization in real world case studies. [Information Technology
Leadership and Strategy]
•Apply project management principles to ensure successful
implementation of core IT functions, such as network management,
system administration, infrastructure integration, and mobile
computing in coursework. [Information Technology Leadership and
Strategy]
•Create business plans that incorporate IT strategies, employing
creativity, innovation, and strategic thinking to identify opportunities,
address challenges, build strong relationships, and drive
organizational success. [Information Technology Leadership and
Strategy]
•Analyze key performance indicators (KPIs) to measure the impact
of IT management on organizational performance in written
assignments and case studies. [Information Technology Leadership
and Strategy]
Web Technologies/Instructional
Design (BA/MPS)
The BA Web Technologies /MPS Instructional Design program is an
accelerated, online program that gives academically successful Loyola
SCPS BA Web Technologies majors the opportunity to pursue the MPS
degree in Instructional Design while completing their BA degree. This
program reduces the total number of courses needed and the total
time needed for the combined degrees. Current accelerated bachelors/
master’s degree programs at LUC allow qualiﬁed students to take up
to four graduate-level courses as undergraduates. This program will
allow students in the BA Web Technologies program to take four of the
courses from the MPS Instructional Design in their senior year. These
courses will be taken as elective course and will count toward the degree
requirements for both programs.
Related Programs
Major
•Web Technologies (BA)  (p. 868)
Master's
•Instructional Design (MPS)  (p. 1928 )
Curriculum
Up to 12 credit hours can be shared between the undergraduate and
graduate degree. These credits fulﬁll general electives for the  120 credits
needed for the bachelor’s degree.
Code Title Hours
BA RequirementsCOMP 170Introduction to Object-Oriented Programming3
COMM 275 Web Design and Usability 3CPST 242Design for the Web3
CPST 342 Introduction to Web Application Development 3COMP 251Introduction to Database Systems3
COMP 271 Data Structures I 3COMP 317Social, Legal, and Ethical Issues in Computing3
CPST 291 Dynamic Programming Languages 3CPST 343Software Development for Mobile Devices3
CPST 325 Data Processing, Analysis, and Visualization 3CPST 248User Experience Design Fundamentals3
CPST 249 User Experience Design Tools and Techniques 3CPST 341User Experience Design to Drive Business3
SCPS CoursesCPST 200Introduction to Degree Completion3
CPST 201 Civic Identity and Development 3CPST 397Capstone3
Core RequirementsThe number of hours remaining toward Core requirements can vary
due to transfer credit.  1Mission Speciﬁc RequirementsMission speciﬁc requirements can vary from 0 to 15 credit hours
based on your prior credit.General Elective RequirementsStudents may have some general elective coursework to complete
if their transfer credit and remaining required hours (Core, mission
speciﬁc, major, etc.) do not total 120.MPS RequirementsCIEP 470Principles of Instructional Design3
INDN 420 Instructional Design Theories and Models 3INDN 421Design & Development of Instructional Materials3
INDN 430 Performance Improvement in Organizations 3INDN 431Fundamentals of Learning Analytics3
INDN 440 Applications of Human Centered Design Principles 3CIEP 415Models of Instruction3
CIEP 425 Theory and Practice in Assessment 3CIEP 488Participatory Action Research (PAR) in Schools
and Communities3INDN 490Instructional Design Capstone3Total Hours78
1Core Requirements -  Learn More  (p. 1405 )
Suggested Sequence of Courses
The School of Continuing and Professional Studies provides a high-touch
advising model in order to incorporate the professional and educational
outcomes of the student as well as any transfer credit accepted.  In
order to provide students with maximum flexibility in their education and
because everyone’s academic background will vary, advisors will work
directly with students to determine an appropriate sequence of courses
starting at admission into their respective program based on their needs
and expected time to completion.
Students must start with the MPS ID pre-requisite
course  CIEP 470  Principles of Instructional Design , and end
with  INDN 490  Instructional Design Capstone  (as the last course in the
MPS degree, not to be taken as an undergraduate).

--- Page 1373 ---
1404  Web Technologies/Instructional Design (BA/MPS)
Guidelines for Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s Programs
Terms
•Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs:  In this type of program,
students share limited credits between their undergraduate and
graduate degrees to facilitate completion of both degrees.  
•Shared credits:  Graduate level credit hours taken during the
undergraduate program and then applied towards graduate program
requirements will be referred to as shared credits.
Admission Requirements
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s programs are designed to enhance
opportunities for advanced training for Loyola’s undergraduates.
Admission to these programs must be competitive and will depend upon
a positive review of credentials by the program’s admissions committee.
Accordingly, the admission requirements for these programs may be
higher than those required if the master’s degree were pursued entirely
after the receipt of a bachelor’s degree. That is, programs may choose
to have more stringent admissions requirements in addition to those
minimal requirements below.
Requirements:
•Declared appropriate undergraduate major,
•By the time students begin taking graduate courses as an
undergraduate, the student has completed approximately 90 credit
hours, or the credit hours required in a program that is accredited by a
specialty organization,1
•A minimum cumulative GPA for coursework at Loyola that is at or
above the program-speciﬁc requirements, a minimum major GPA that
is at or above the program-speciﬁc requirements, and/or appropriate
designated coursework for evaluation of student readiness in their
discipline.2
Students not eligible for the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program
(e.g., students who have not declared the appropriate undergraduate
major) may apply to the master’s program through the regular admissions
process. Students enrolled in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program who choose not to continue to the master’s degree program
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree will face no consequences.3
Ideally, a student will apply for admission (or conﬁrm interest in
proceeding towards the graduate degree in opt-out programs) as they
approach 90 credit hours. Programs are encouraged to begin advising
students early in their major so that they are aware of the program
and, if interested, can complete their bachelor’s degree requirements
in a way that facilitates completion of the program. Once admitted as
an undergraduate, Program Directors should ensure that students are
enrolled using the plan code associated with the Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s program. Using the plan code associated with the Accelerated
Bachelor’s/Master’s program will ensure that students may be easily
identiﬁed as they move through the program. Students will not ofﬁcially
matriculate into the master’s degree program and be labeled as a
graduate student by the university, with accompanying changes to tuition
and Financial Aid (see below), until the undergraduate degree has been
awarded. Once admitted to the graduate program, students must meet
the academic standing requirements of their graduate program as they
complete the program curriculum.1Programs that have specialized accreditation will adhere to the
admissions criteria provided by, or approved by, their specialized
accreditors.
2The program will identify appropriate indicators of student readiness
for graduate coursework (e.g., high-level performance in 300 level
courses). Recognizing differences between how majors are designed,
we do not specify a blanket requirement.
3If students choose not to enroll in the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
program, they still must complete all of the standard requirements
associated with the undergraduate degree (e.g., a capstone).
For more information on Admissions requirements, visit here  (https://
gpem.luc.edu/portal/admission/?tab=home ).
Curriculum
Level and progression of courses.  The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s
programs are designed to be competitive and attractive to our most
capable students. Students admitted to Accelerated Bachelor’s/
Master’s programs should be capable of meeting graduate level learning
outcomes. Following guidance from the Higher Learning Commission,
only courses taken at the 400 level or higher (including 300/400 level
courses taken at the 400 level) will count toward the graduate program.1,2
  Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours, required in the
graduate program, may come from 300/400 level courses where the
student is enrolled in the 400 level of the course. Further, at least 50%
of the credit hours for the graduate program must come from courses
that are designed for and restricted to graduate students who have been
admitted to a graduate program at Loyola (e.g., enrolled in plan code that
indicates the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, typically ending
with the letter “D”).3
In general, graduate level coursework should not be taken prior to
admission into the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Exceptions
may be granted for professional programs where curriculum for the
Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program is designed to begin earlier. On
the recommendation of the program’s Graduate Director, students may
take one of their graduate level courses before they are admitted to the
Accelerated Bachelors/Master’s program if they have advanced abilities
in their discipline and course offerings warrant such an exception.4
Undergraduate degree requirements outside of the major are in no way
impacted by admission to an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program.5
Shared credits.  Undergraduate courses (i.e., courses offered at the 300
level or below) cannot be counted as shared credits nor count towards
the master’s degree. Up to 50% of the total graduate level credit hours,
required in the graduate program, may be counted in meeting both the
undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. Of those shared
credits, students in an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program should
begin their graduate program with the standard introductory course(s)
for the program whenever possible. So that students may progress
through the Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program in a timely manner,
undergraduate programs are encouraged to design their curriculum such
that a student can complete some required graduate credit hours while
completing the undergraduate degree. For instance, some of the graduate
curriculum should also satisfy electives for the undergraduate major.
The program’s Graduate Director will designate credit hours to be shared
through the advising form and master’s degree conferral review process.
Shared credit hours will not be marked on the undergraduate record
as having a special status in the undergraduate program. They will be
included in the student’s undergraduate earned hours and GPA. Graduate

--- Page 1374 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1405
credit hours taken during the undergraduate program will not be included
in the graduate GPA calculation.
1If students wish to transfer credits from another university to Loyola
University Chicago, the program’s Graduate director will review the
relevant syllabus(es) to determine whether it meets the criteria for a
400 level course or higher.
2Programs with specialized accreditation requirements that allow
programs to offer graduate curriculum to undergraduate students will
conform to those specialized accreditation requirements.
3In rare cases, the Graduate Director may authorize enrollment in a 400-
level course for a highly qualiﬁed and highly motivated undergraduate,
ensuring that the undergraduate's exceptional participation in the
graduate class will not diminish in any way the experience of the
graduate students regularly enrolled.
4For example, if a particular course is only offered once every 2-3 years,
and a student has demonstrated the necessary ability to be successful,
the Graduate Director may allow a student to take a graduate level
course to be shared prior to the student being formally admitted to the
graduate program. See, also, footnote 3.
5Students should not, for example, attempt to negotiate themselves
out of a writing intensive requirement on the basis of admission to a
graduate program.
Graduation
Degrees are awarded sequentially. All details of undergraduate
commencement are handled in the ordinary way as for all students in the
School/College/Institute. Once in the graduate program, students abide
by the graduation deadlines set forth by the graduate program. Students
in these programs must be continuously enrolled from undergraduate
to graduate degree program unless given explicit permission by their
program for a gap year or approved leave of absence. In offering the
option of an Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s program, the university
is making possible the acceleration of a student’s graduate degree
completion. It should be understood that students may not request
deferral of their matriculation into the Master’s degree program. If
students would like to delay their graduate studies after earning the
undergraduate degree, they may apply for admission to the traditional
master’s degree program. Any application of graduate credit earned while
in the undergraduate program is subject to the policies of the graduate
degree granting school.
Learning Outcomes
•Develop modern, standards-compliant web applications while
demonstrating proﬁciency in best practices, utilizing contemporary
web technology solutions, and effectively managing software project
versions through version control techniques. [Web Technologies]
•Critique website aesthetics, accessibility, and usability and apply
graphic design principles to strategically align business objec tives
with UX Design goals by effectively utilizing the User Experience (UX)
Design process. [Web Technologies]
•Utilize client-side services to interact with server-side APIs, model
and implement structured and unstructured data, and perform data
analysis using standard toolkits and libraries. [Web Technologies]
•Develop programs using fundamental programming constructs, data
structures, and algorithms, while demonstrating the ability to choose
appropriate solutions and justify their selections. [Web Technologies]
•Apply object-oriented principles (abstraction, delegation, inheritance,
and polymorphism) and design patterns, and demonstrate proﬁciencyin programming, testing, and debugging using a mainstream object-
oriented language. [Web Technologies]
•Demonstrate knowledge of legal and ethical considerations in
information technology and apply technical and ethical solutions.
[Web Technologies]
•Utilize instructional design processes and adapt appropriate
theoretical approaches to a variety of professional settings (K-12
schools, corporate organizations, higher education institutions,
etc). while designing and creating effective and innovative learning
experiences. [Instructional Design]
•Employ a variety of technologies and multimedia authoring tools to
produce instructional materials. [Instructional Design]
•Apply culturally responsive and ethical practices while establishing
collaborative relationships with diverse stakeholders (e.g.,
administrators, faculty, students, technologists, project managers,
public) and building a network of industry colleagues. [Instructional
Design]
•Conduct research and predictive data set analysis to inform practice
and stay abreast of emerging trends in the ﬁeld of instructional
design to make recommendations about instructional practices and
performance gaps in an organization. [Instructional Design]
University Requirements
•University Core  (p. 1405 )
•About the Core  (p. 1406 )
•Core Area and Courses  (p. 1406 )
•Artistic Knowledge and Inquiry  (p. 1407 )
•College Writing Seminar  (p. 1407 )
•Ethical Knowledge and Inquiry  (p. 1408 )
•Historical Knowledge and Inquiry  (p. 1408 )
•Literary Knowledge and Inquiry  (p. 1408 )
•Philosophical Knowledge and Inquiry  (p. 1409 )
•Quantitative Knowledge and Inquiry  (p. 1410 )
•Scientiﬁc Knowledge and Inquiry  (p. 1410 )
•Societal and Cultural Knowledge and Inquiry  (p. 1411 )
•Theological & Religious Knowledge and Inquiry  (p. 1411 )
•Requirements for Students Entering as Freshmen  (p. 1412 )
•Requirements for Transfer Students  (p. 1412 )
•Diversity and the Core  (p. 1413 )
•Core and Your Major or Minor  (p. 1413 )
•Honors and the Core  (p. 1417 )
•Engaged Learning  (p. 1417 )
•Academic Internships  (p. 1418 )
•Fieldwork  (p. 1424 )
•Public Performance  (p. 1429 )
•Service-Learning  (p. 1432 )
•Undergraduate Research  (p. 1434 )
•UNIV 101  (p. 1436 )
University Core
University Core Curriculum
The Loyola University Chicago Core Curriculum plays a central
educational role in every Loyola student's undergraduate
experience.  Designed to provide both breadth and depth to a student’s

--- Page 1375 ---
1406  About the Core
program of study, the Core Curriculum introduces students to key
concepts and modes of thought in a variety of areas of human
intellectual endeavors. The Core Curriculum actualizes transformative
education in the Jesuit tradition, helping students to deﬁne th eir values,
discover their gifts and passions, and look at their role in society as being
one in service of humanity and for the common good.
•About the Core  (p. 1406 )
•Core Area and Courses  (p. 1406 )
•Artistic Knowledge and Inquiry  (p. 1407 )
•College Writing Seminar  (p. 1407 )
•Ethical Knowledge and Inquiry  (p. 1408 )
•Historical Knowledge and Inquiry  (p. 1408 )
•Literary Knowledge and Inquiry  (p. 1408 )
•Philosophical Knowledge and Inquiry  (p. 1409 )
•Quantitative Knowledge and Inquiry  (p. 1410 )
•Scientiﬁc Knowledge and Inquiry  (p. 1410 )
•Societal and Cultural Knowledge and Inquiry  (p. 1411 )
•Theological & Religious Knowledge and Inquiry  (p. 1411 )
•Requirements for Students Entering as Freshmen  (p. 1412 )
•Requirements for Transfer Students  (p. 1412 )
•Diversity and the Core  (p. 1413 )
•Core and Your Major or Minor  (p. 1413 )
•Honors and the Core  (p. 1417 )
About the Core
About the Core
The University Core Curriculum introduces students to ten central
Core Areas of university learning, with a consistent focus on learning
outcomes for those Core Areas. Core coursework develops students'
understanding through knowledge and experience in the Core Areas of
Artistic, Ethical, Historical, Literary, Quantitative, Philosophical, Scientiﬁc,
Societal and Cultural, and Theological and Religious Knowledge and
Inquiry, plus written communication in the College Writing Seminar.  In
addition to knowledge and skills development, Core courses integrate and
promote values essential to a Loyola education, such as understanding
diversity in the US or the world, understanding and promoting justice, and
understanding spirituality or faith in action in the world. Many courses
in the Core were speciﬁcally designed to highlight the value of diversity
(https://catalog.luc.edu/undergraduate/university-requirements/
university-core/diversity-core/ ). 
To complete the University Core Curriculum, students will take 16 courses
across ten Core Areas. Two courses are required in six of these areas
(Historical, Literary, Scientiﬁc, Societal and Cultural, Philosophical, and
Theological and Religious Knowledge and Inquiry). Students will begin
their studies in these six areas with a foundational (or Tier I) course that
will introduce them to critical ideas and methods of analyses in that
area.  After completing the foundational course, students will have an
array of options to further their studies by taking one of a variety of Tier
II classes to pursue particular interests in more depth.  The other four
areas (College Writing Seminar and Artistic, Quantitative, and Ethical
Knowledge and Inquiry) require one course each.
Some Core Area requirements can be satisﬁed by virtue of completing a
major or minor program of study, given the extensive work a student must
do in a particular knowledge area while pursuing such a program of study.
Please see the Core and your major and minor  (https://catalog.luc.edu/undergraduate/university-requirements/university-core/core-major-
minor/ ) for more information. Students in the Interdisciplinary Honors
Program should note t he relationship between the Honors Program and
Core Curriculum  (https://catalog.luc.edu/undergraduate/university-
requirements/university-core/honors-core/ ).
Please note that these requirements apply to students obtaining
a bachelor's degree. Students entering as freshmen  (https://
catalog.luc.edu/undergraduate/university-requirements/university-core/
students-entering-freshmen/ ), transfer students  (https://catalog.luc.edu/
undergraduate/university-requirements/university-core/transfer-
students/ ), and Arrupe College  (https://www.luc.edu/arrupe/academics/
degrees/ ) students have distinct requirements for completing the Core
Curriculum.
What's next?  Head to the  Core Curriculum Guide  (p. 1406 ) to ﬁnd out
more about the speciﬁc Core requirements and learn about courses being
offered.
Core Area and Courses
The University Core Curriculum includes 16 required courses distributed
across 10 Core Areas. Core Curriculum coursework develops students'
understanding in the Core Areas of Artistic, Ethical, Historical, Literary,
Quantitative, Philosophical, Scientiﬁc, Societal and Cultural, and
Theological and Religious Knowledge and Inquiry, as well written
communication in the College Writing Seminar. In addition to knowledge
and skills development, Core courses integrate and promote values
essential to a Loyola education, such as understanding diversity in the
US or the world, understanding and promoting justice, and understanding
spirituality or faith in action in the world.Required Core AreasRequired CoursesCredit Hours
Artistic Knowledge and
Inquiry  (p. 1407 )1 3College Writing Seminar
(p. 1407 )13
Ethical Knowledge and
Inquiry  (p. 1408 )1 3Quantitative Knowledge
and Inquiry  (p. 1410 )13
Historical Knowledge
and Inquiry  (p. 1408 )2 6Literary Knowledge and
Inquiry  (p. 1408 )26
Philosophical
Knowledge and Inquiry
(p. 1409 )2 6Scientiﬁc Knowledge
and Inquiry  (p. 1410 )26
Societal and Cultural
Knowledge and Inquiry
(p. 1411 )2 6Theological & Religious
Knowledge and Inquiry
(p. 1411 )26
Total 16 courses 48 hours

--- Page 1376 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1407
Artistic Knowledge and Inquiry
Area Goal:  This Core Area of Inquiry will invite students to explore artistic
traditions and expressions.
Area Objectives:  The study of art is essential for a complete education
of the whole person because it fosters a search for truth, respect for the
person, and encourages students to develop critical habits of the mind
and ethical standards of behavior. "Art" is understood to encompass any
and all forms of artistic expression, including but not limited to, dance,
music, theater, ﬁlm, and visual and plastic arts. The courses in this Core
Area will provide students with the opportunity to engage in the arts
through formal study or creative processes, and to explore non-linear
modes of thinking, problem-solving, and expression. Students will have
the opportunity to acquire collaborative skills through group problem
solving and engaged dialog where applicable.
Curriculum
Courses (3 credit hours required)
In order to satisfy the Core Artistic Knowledge and Experience
requirement, a student must successfully complete three credit hours.
  This may be accomplished by taking one three credit hour class or by
taking a combination of one credit hour classes.
Code Title Hours
Choose one or more of the following: 3CLST 206Art of Ancient GreeceCLST 207 Art of the Roman WorldCOMM 274Introduction to CinemaDANC 111 Ballet I: Introduction to Ballet Theory and
TechniqueDANC 121Modern Dance I: Theories and TechniquesDANC 131 Jazz Dance I: Theories and TechniquesENGL 317The Writing of PoetryENGL 318 The Writing of FictionENGL 318RThe Writing of Fiction: Writing RomeENGL 319 Writing Creative NonﬁctionFNAR 113Drawing IFNAR 114 Painting IFNAR 115Foundations of PhotographyFNAR 120 Ceramics: HandbuildingFNAR 121Ceramics: WheelthrowingFNAR 124 Sculpture FoundationsFNAR 199Art and Visual CultureFNAR 200 Global Art History: Prehistoric to 600 CEFNAR 201Global Art History: 600-1800CEFNAR 202 Global Art History: Modern ArtFNAR 342Art in RomeLITR 264 Italian Film GenreMUSC 101Music: Art of ListeningMUSC 102 Class Piano for BeginnersMUSC 103Class Guitar for BeginnersMUSC 105 Symphony OrchestraMUSC 107ChorusMUSC 108 Liturgical Choir: CantorumMUSC 109Jazz EnsembleMUSC 110 Wind EnsembleMUSC 142Class Voice for BeginnersMUSC 154R Introduction to Opera in RomeTHTR 100Intro to Theatre ExperienceTHTR 252 Theatrical Design ITHTR 261Beginning ActingArea Learning Outcomes
After completing the course in this Area, students will be able to:
1.analyze, interpret, create, or participate in the creation or performance
of some forms of artistic expression as a means of exploring human
experience and understanding the creative process.
2.use critical and technical vocabulary to describe, analyze, and
formulate an argument about artistic productions.
3.assess how various forms of artistic expression shape the experience
and response of the audience.
4.evaluate works of art within their aesthetic, historical, or cultural
contexts.
5.recognize or participate in the artistic-cultural life of their
communities.
College Writing Seminar
Area Goal:  This Core Area of Inquiry will invite students to explore
strategies for process-based drafting, research, and argumentation in
academic writing.
Area Objectives:  The complexity of contemporary global society requires
that individuals demonstrate effective written communication and
rhetorical skills to engage in dialogue, whether in their undergraduate
courses, in their careers, or in civic and public discourse. Through
this course, students will explore academic practices and strategies--
including critical reading and thinking, rhetorical argumentation, the
recursive writing process, and information/research literacy--that will
develop their writing skills and offer them the opportunity to understand
their responsibility to their readers, their sources, and themselves as
writers.
Curriculum
Core College Writing Seminar (1 course required)
Code Title Hours
UCWR 110 Writing Responsibly 3
Area Learning Outcomes
After completing the course in this Area, students will be able to:
1.summarize, analyze, synthesize, and evaluate texts through informal
and formal writing assignments.
2.use a variety of sources to formulate and support a clear claim:
this includes ﬁnding, evaluating, analyzing, synthesizing, and
documenting sources appropriately.
3.apply recursive and reflective processes in writing, including
strategies for invention, drafting, organization, peer review, revision,
and editing.
4.articulate rhetorical strategies in a range of media and texts.

--- Page 1377 ---
1408  Ethical Knowledge and Inquiry
5.write clearly and effectively, tailoring writing and rhetorical strategies
to the goals and audience of a given project.
Ethical Knowledge and Inquiry
Area Goal:  This Core Area of Inquiry will invite students to explore topics
in Ethics such as the nature of human flourishing, moral responsibility,
and justice through critical reflection on a range of ethical frameworks
and methodologies.
Area Objectives:  Developing a student's ethical awareness and
reflection is central to the Core Curriculum. By completing the Core
Ethics course, students will explore the differences and similarities
between ethical frameworks, the complexities of ethical frameworks
and their applications, and historical or contemporary issues that can be
interpreted through the lens of ethical frameworks.
Curriculum
Courses (1 course required)
Code Title Hours
Choose one of the following:PHIL 181Ethics3
PHIL 182 Social and Political Philosophy 3THEO 185Christian Ethics3
THEO 186 Global Religious Ethics 3
Area Learning Outcomes
After completing the course in this Area, students will be able to:
1.describe and discuss the central features (e.g., concepts, constructs,
and principles) that comprise different ethical frameworks or schools
of thought.
2.compare and contrast various ethical frameworks, for example, how
these frameworks can be applied to living well and promoting the
flourishing of others.
3.identify central features of historical or contemporary ethical issues.
4.apply an ethical framework or school of thought to analyze a
historical or contemporary issue, defend their analysis by explaining
how the framework/school is present, and the advantages and
disadvantages of using it.
Historical Knowledge and Inquiry
Area Goal:  This Core Area of Inquiry will invite students to explore the
human experience from a historical perspective.
Area Objectives:  History is a form of inquiry, critical thinking, and
understanding that encompasses all aspects of human experience
and illuminates how the past shapes the present and thus the future.
Through these courses, students will explore historical and contemporary
perspectives with a view to fashioning a humane and just world. Students
will have the opportunity to examine a range of historical evidence in
multiple forms such as documents, ﬁlms, diaries, images, artifacts,
empirical data, and oral and digital histories.Curriculum
Foundational/Tier I
Code Title Hours
Choose one of the following: 3HIST 101Culture, Power and Identity: Western Ideas &
Institutions to 17th CenturyHIST 102 Culture, Power and Identity: Western Ideas &
Institutions from 17th CenturyHIST 103American Pluralism DHIST 104 Global History Since 1500 D
DCourses with a  Diversity Designation  (https://www.luc.edu/core/core-
diversity/ ) are indicated with a (D).
Tier II
Requirement for all Tier II Courses:  HIST 101 Culture, Power and Identity:
Western Ideas & Institutions to 17th Century , HIST 102 Culture, Power
and Identity: Western Ideas & Institutions from 17th Century , HIST 103
American Pluralism , or HIST 104 Global History Since 1500 .  Please
check requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions.
Code Title Hours
Choose one of the following: 3ANTH 107Ancient Worlds DCLST 274 World of Archaic GreeceCLST 275World of Classical GreeceCLST 276 World of Classical RomeCLST 277World of Late AntiquityHIST 208 East Asian History: Themes & Issues DHIST 209Survey of Islamic History DHIST 210 Latin American History: Themes & Issues DHIST 211US History to 1865: Themes & IssuesHIST 212 US History since 1865: Themes & IssuesHIST 213African History: Themes & Issues DDCourses with a  Diversity Designation  (https://www.luc.edu/core/core-
diversity/ ) are indicated with a (D).
Area Learning Outcomes
After completing the two courses in this Area, students will be able to:
1.recognize the importance of chronology, sequential development, and
geography in shaping history.
2.explain processes of historical continuity and change.
3.assess and explain the relationship between historical events and
cultural, social, and political forces.
4.interpret varied forms of sources as historical evidence.
5.illustrate how human and societal values, as well as methods of
analysis and interpretation, shape and are shaped by historical
context
Literary Knowledge and Inquiry
Area Goal:  This Core Area of Inquiry will invite students to explore literary
traditions and expressions.

--- Page 1378 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1409
Area Objectives:  Through these courses, students will examine how
literary expression manifests in different types of texts. The kinds of
texts students can study are expansive: e.g., poems, plays, novels,
stories, memoirs, essays, magazines, newspapers, and more in print and
online formats. Students have opportunities to select courses that cover
literature from a range of time periods, places, perspectives, cultures,
languages, identities, and social positions that have generated and
continue to generate rich literature. This range extends across literatures
produced in a variety of languages by the many cultures and social
groups of Africa, the Americas, Asia, Europe, and Oceania as well as the
diasporas and migrations within and between these regions. Students
will explore the forms that shape literary expressions; the creative
processes that produce them; the concepts and terms that facilitate their
interpretation; and the cultural, social, linguistic, and historical contexts in
which they are produced.
Curriculum
Foundational/Tier I
Code Title Hours
Choose one of the following: 3UCLR 100CInterpreting Literature - Classical Studies 1UCLR 100E Interpreting Literature - English 2UCLR 100MInterpreting Literature - Modern Langs&Literatures
31Taught by member of the faculty of Classical Studies, CAS.
2Taught by members of the faculty of English, CAS.
3Taught by members of the faculty of Modern Languages & Literatures,
CAS.
Tier II
Requirement for all Tier II Courses: UCLR 100. Please check requirements
for declared majors/minors for exceptions.
Code Title Hours
Choose one of the following: 3CLST 271Classical MythologyCLST 271G Classical Mythology - Women/Gender Focus DCLST 272Heroes & the Classical EpicsCLST 273 Classical TragedyCLST 273GClassical Tragedy - Women/Gender Focus DCLST 279 Classical RhetoricCLST 280Romance Novel in Ancient WorldCLST 283 Classical Comedy & SatireENGL 271Exploring PoetryENGL 272 Exploring DramaENGL 273Exploring FictionENGL 274 Exploring ShakespeareENGL 282African-American Literature DENGL 283 Women in LiteratureENGL 284Asian American Literature DENGL 287 Religion and LiteratureENGL 288Nature in LiteratureENGL 290 Human Values in LiteratureLITR 200European MasterpiecesLITR 202 European NovelLITR 238Arabic Literature in Translation DLITR 245 Asian Masterpieces DLITR 280World Masterpieces in Translation DLITR 283 Major Authors in Translation
DCourses with a  Diversity Designation  (https://www.luc.edu/core/core-
diversity/ ) are indicated with a (D).
Area Learning Outcomes
After completing the two courses in this Area, students will be able to:
1.identify, explain, and analyze carefully key components of various
literary productions that deepen understanding of human experiences
and creative processes.
2.use critical and technical vocabulary to describe, analyze, and
formulate an argument about literary productions.
3.assess how various forms of literary expression shape the experience
and response of the audience.
4.examine multiple interpretive possibilities of any literary work.
5.articulate the relationships of works of literature to the cultures and
histories in which they were created and used.
Philosophical Knowledge and Inquiry
Area Goal:  This Core Area of Inquiry will invite students to explore key
philosophical questions and traditions.
Area Objectives:  Through these courses, students will explore influential
philosophical questions, positions, and methods of inquiry. Students
will develop intellectual attitudes that enable them to identify and
assess implicit presuppositions and formulate and defend responses to
philosophical issues, including ethical issues.
Curriculum
Foundational/Tier I
Code Title Hours
PHIL 130 Philosophy & Persons 3
Tier II
Requirement for all Tier II Courses:   PHIL 130 Philosophy & Persons
Please check requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions.
Code Title Hours
Choose one of the following: 3PHIL 271Philosophy of ReligionPHIL 272 MetaphysicsPHIL 273Philosophy of SciencePHIL 274 LogicPHIL 275Theory of KnowledgePHIL 277 AestheticsPHIL 277RAesthetics: the Aesthetic Experience in RomePHIL 279 Judgment and Decision-MakingPHIL 284Health Care EthicsPHIL 286 Ethics and EducationPHIL 287Environmental EthicsPHIL 288 Culture and Civilization

--- Page 1379 ---
1410  Quantitative Knowledge and InquiryPHIL 288RCulture & Civilization in RomePLSC 100 Political TheoryPSYC 280Psychology of Judgment and Decision-MakingArea Learning Outcomes
After completing the two courses in this Area, students will be able to:
1.describe the historical or conceptual development of major
philosophical questions.
2.explain the contributions major philosophical questions make to the
understanding of ourselves as humans.
3.articulate some of the major problems and range of responses central
to philosophical inquiry, including questions concerning truth and
knowledge, reality, moral values, or social justice.
4.construct philosophical arguments, which means students will
support their ideas with reasons, assess critically the underlying
assumptions of their positions, and evaluate the strengths and
weaknesses of alternative positions.
Quantitative Knowledge and Inquiry
Area Goal:  This Core Area of Inquiry will invite students to explore the
major concepts and methods involved in the analysis of quantitative
data.
Area Objectives:  Through these courses, students will explore how one or
more ﬁelds--mathematics, statistics, computing, and the social sciences--
understand and analyze quantitative information. This involves reasoning
by symbolic, numerical, or geometrical means, and determining various
ways to solve problems while predicting possible consequences.
Curriculum
Courses (1 course required)
Code Title Hours
Choose one of the following: 3CJC 206StatisticsCOMP 122 /
MUSC 122Introduction to Digital MusicCOMP 125Visual Information ProcessingCOMP 150 Introduction to ComputingISSCM 241Business StatisticsMATH 108 Real World Modeling with MathematicsPLSC 216Political NumbersSTAT 103 Fundamentals of Statistics
Area Learning Outcomes
After completing the course in this Area, students will be able to:
1.represent and interpret quantitative information symbolically,
graphically, numerically, verbally, and in written form.
2.describe the strengths and limitations of various types of quantitative
models.
3.describe the utility of quantitative methods for scientiﬁc inquiry or
technological progress.
4.apply quantitative methods to solve problems or model situations
arising in scientiﬁc, political, social, or personal contexts.Scientiﬁc Knowledge and Inquiry
Area Goal:  This Core Area of Inquiry will invite students to explore the
fundamental principles, concepts, questions, and methods of science.
Area Objectives:  In the study of scientiﬁc knowledge and inquiry, students
will explore how empirical questions are addressed using the iterative
methods and tools of science. Students will also examine the scientiﬁc
underpinnings of environmental processes. This Core Area will prepare
students to make reasoned decisions and informed judgments about the
role science plays for people, communities, societies, and life on Earth.
Curriculum
Foundational/Tier I
Code Title Hours
ENVS 101 The Scientiﬁc Basis of Environmental Issues 3
Tier II
A requirement for all Tier II Courses:    ENVS 101 The Scientiﬁc Basis of
Environmental Issues . Please check requirements for declared majors/
minors for exceptions.
Code Title Hours
Choose one of the following: 3ANTH 101Human Origins DANTH 103 Biological Background Human Social Behavior DANTH 104The Human Ecological FootprintANTH 105 Human Biocultural Diversity DANTH 106Sex, Science and Anthropological Inquiry DBIOL 110 Liberal Arts BiologyENVS 207Plants and CivilizationENVS 218 Biodiversity & BiogeographyENVS 223Soil EcologyENVS 224 Climate & Climate ChangeENVS 226Science & Conservation of Freshwater EcosystemsENVS 273 Energy and the EnvironmentENVS 283Environmental SustainabilityPHYS 101 Liberal Arts PhysicsPHYS 102Planetary and Stellar AstronomyPHYS 106 Physics of Music
DCourses with a  Diversity Designation  (https://www.luc.edu/core/core-
diversity/ ) are indicated with a (D).
Area Learning Outcomes
After completing the two courses in this Area, students will be able to:
1.explain Earths’ physical, chemical, and biological systems and the
implications of their alteration by human activities.
2.describe how scientiﬁc data are collected, analyzed, and interpreted
using the Scientiﬁc Method and fundamental scientiﬁc principles and
concepts.
3.collect, analyze, and interpret scientiﬁc data to explore empirical
questions.
4.communicate scientiﬁc processes and results.

--- Page 1380 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1411
5.articulate the philosophical or historical foundations of one or more
contemporary scientiﬁc disciplines.
Societal and Cultural Knowledge and
Inquiry
Area Goal:  This Core Area of Inquiry will invite students to explore
the study of society, culture, and people and the distinct disciplinary
approaches within the social sciences.
Area Objectives:  Through these courses, students will learn about various
political, economic, and social systems across the globe and their
interconnections, as well as the beliefs, rituals, structures, and values
that constitute societies and cultures. In addition, students will learn
about the experiences of underrepresented communities (e.g., related to
socioeconomic status, ability, gender, sexual orientation, race/ethnicity, or
religion) within a particular cultural and societal context, and how people
shape and are shaped by society. Students will explore concepts such
as power, privilege, oppression, inequality, and social justice, critical to
fashioning a humane and just world.
Curriculum
Foundational/Tier I
Code Title Hours
Choose one of the following: 3ANTH 100Globalization and Local Cultures DPLSC 102 International Relations in an Age of Globalization DPSYC 100Psychological Perspectives on the Experience of
Globalization DSOCL 101 Society in a Global Age DWSGS 101Introduction to WSGS from a Global Perspective DDCourses with a  Diversity Designation  (https://www.luc.edu/core/core-
diversity/ ) are indicated with a (D).
Tier II
Requirement for all Tier II Courses:    ANTH 100 Globalization and
Local Cultures , PLSC 102 International Relations in an Age of
Globalization , PSYC 100 Psychological Perspectives on the Experience
of Globalization , SOCL 101 Society in a Global Age  or WSGS 101
Introduction to WSGS from a Global Perspective .
Please check requirements for declared majors/minors for exceptions.
Code Title Hours
Choose one of the following: 3ANTH 102Culture, Society, and Diversity DANTH 203 Violence, Social Suffering, and Justice DANTH 208Language and Identity DCJC 345 Social Justice and Crime DCJC 370Women in The Criminal Justice System DCJC 372 Race, Ethnicity, and Criminal Justice DECON 201Principles of MicroeconomicsECON 202 Principles of MacroeconomicsPLSC 101American PoliticsPLSC 103 Comparative PoliticsPSYC 101General PsychologyPSYC 238 Gender & Sex Differences & Similarities DPSYC 275Social Psychology DSOCL 121 Social Problems DSOCL 122Race and Ethnic Relations DSOCL 125 Chicago: Urban Metropolis DSOCL 145Religion & Society DSOCL 171 Sociology of Sex and Gender DSOCL 250Inequality in Society DWSGS 201 Contemporary Issues in WSGS D
DCourses with a  Diversity Designation  (https://www.luc.edu/core/core-
diversity/ ) are indicated with a (D).
Area Learning Outcomes
After completing the two courses in this Area, students will be able to:
1.describe and analyze the key processes and components of cultural,
economic, political, or social forces across time or place.
2.summarize the various ways that people, groups, or communities
shape and are shaped by cultural or social forces.
3.analyze the various ways in which identities are formed through a
complex interaction of biographical, societal, or cultural contexts.
4.describe the experiences of underrepresented, marginalized, or
oppressed communities within various contexts, including inequality
in outcomes and resistance to systems of oppression.
5.analyze how systems of power, privilege, and oppression (e.g., racism,
sexism, heterosexism, ableism) operate to create and maintain
inequality as well as how resistance to these systems is enacted.
6.apply concepts from above to analyze contemporary or historical
issues of inequality and justice.
Theological & Religious Knowledge
and Inquiry
Area Goal:  This Core Area of Inquiry will invite students to explore a
range of theological and religious questions and traditions, taking into
account the roles these questions and traditions can play in human life
and quests for meaning.
Area Objectives:  Through these two courses, students will engage
in critical thinking and informed reflection on theology and religion.
Students will gain familiarity with the basic content of, and modes of
scholarly inquiry into, selected religious and theological systems.
Curriculum
Foundational/Tier I
Code Title Hours
Choose one of the following: 3THEO 100Christian TheologyTHEO 107 Introduction to Religious Studies D
DCourses with a  Diversity Designation  (https://www.luc.edu/core/core-
diversity/ ) are indicated with a (D).

--- Page 1381 ---
1412  Requirements for Students Entering as Freshmen
Tier II
Requirement for all Tier II Courses:   THEO 100 Christian
Theology  or THEO 107 Introduction to Religious Studies
Code Title Hours
Choose one of the following: 3THEO 114Introduction to the Qur'anTHEO 203 Social Justice and Injustice DTHEO 204Religious Ethics and the Ecological Crisis DTHEO 231 Hebrew Bible/Old TestamentTHEO 232New TestamentTHEO 265 Sacraments and the Christian ImaginationTHEO 266Church & Global CulturesTHEO 267 Jesus ChristTHEO 272Judaism DTHEO 276 Black World Religion DTHEO 278Religion & Gender DTHEO 279 Roman CatholicismTHEO 280Religion & Interdisciplinary StudiesTHEO 281 Christianity Through TimeTHEO 282Hinduism DTHEO 293 Christian MarriageTHEO 295Islam DTHEO 297 Buddhism DTHEO 299Religions of Asia DDCourses with a  Diversity Designation  (https://www.luc.edu/core/core-
diversity/ ) are indicated with a (D).
Area Learning Outcomes
After completing the two courses in this Area, students will be able to:
1.compare and contrast multiple answers to these questions that have
been offered within the respective ﬁelds of Religious Studies and
Theology: “What is religion?” and “What is the academic study of
religion?”
2.demonstrate knowledge, with attention to historical development, of
the texts, beliefs, ethical understandings, and practices of at least one
religious tradition, including the diversity of perspectives within that
tradition.
3.analyze the interdisciplinary intersections between religion and
selected contemporary issues (e.g., ethical, social, political,
economic, cultural issues, or other academic disciplines).
4.explain some of the ways in which religious thought and practices
can both reinforce oppressive structures and also enable possibilities
for resistance, paying particular attention to various perspectives of
marginalized and oppressed groups.
5.critically reflect on religious perspectives, their own and those of
others, and the implications of those perspectives.Requirements for Students Entering
as Freshmen
All Loyola students who enter as freshmen will follow the University Core
Curriculum, which will entail completion of courses in the  Core Areas
(p. 1406 ).
Please refer to the  transfer credit policy for new (ﬁrst time) freshman
(p. 2283 ) administered by the Ofﬁce of Registration and Records for
more information on the credits that may count toward undergraduate
degree requirements.
Requirements for Transfer Students
We strongly encourage all transfer students to work closely with their
academic advisor to plan course selections to maximize the credit received
from Loyola.
Loyola University Chicago is a participant in the Illinois Articulation
Initiative (IAI), a statewide agreement that allows transfer students
to complete the IAI General Education Core Curriculum (GECC) in lieu
of a receiving institution’s core curriculum. For more information on
the Illinois Articulation Initiative, please visit their  webpage  (https://
itransfer.org/ ).
Students Who Have Completed the GECC
Requirements
At Loyola, all transfer students ( both in-state and out-of-state ) who
have received an Associate of Arts (AA) or Associate of Science (AS)
degree from a public community college, 4-year college, or university will
have met Loyola’s Core Curriculum requirements, with the exception of
mission-speciﬁc courses.  In addition, transfer students who attended
an Illinois 2-year or 4-year institution, who enter Loyola without a degree
but who have completed the IAI General Education Core Curriculum
(GECC) requirements will also have satisﬁed Loyola’s Core Curriculum
requirements and only need to complete the mission-speciﬁc and
Engaged Learning requirements as described below.
In-State Transfer Students Who Have Not
Completed the GECC
If you are a transfer student from an in-state school entering Loyola
with  30 or more hours of credit  but have not satisﬁed the GECC
requirements, you may choose to complete core requirements either
by completing the GECC or Loyola’s Core Curriculum.  If you choose
to complete Loyola’s Core Curriculum, you can ﬁnd descriptions of the
various Core Areas and courses that satisfy them on this  webpage
(p. 1406 ). If you choose to complete your core requirements through the
GECC option, you will need to select Loyola courses that articulate with
the approved GECC courses from your prior institution(s).  In addition, you
will be required to complete the mission-speciﬁc courses and Engaged
Learning requirement as described below.
If you enter Loyola with  fewer than 30 hours of credit  your courses
will be articulated to Loyola courses on a course-by-course basis.  You
will then complete Loyola’s Core Curriculum and  Engaged Learning
(p. 1417 ) requirements.  You can ﬁnd complete descriptions of the
various Core Areas and courses that satisfy them on this  webpage
(p. 1406 ).

--- Page 1382 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1413
Out-of-State Transfer Students Who Have
Not Earned an AA or AS Degree
If you are a transfer student from an out-of-state school entering Loyola
without an AA or AS degree, your courses will be articulated to Loyola
courses on a course-by-course basis.  You will then complete Loyola’s
Core Curriculum and  Engaged Learning  (p. 1417 ) requirements.  You can
ﬁnd complete descriptions of the various Core Areas and courses that
satisfy them, on this  webpage  (p. 1406 ).
Mission-Speciﬁc Core Requirements
Transfer students who enter Loyola University having satisﬁed the
general Core Curriculum requirements must complete mission-speciﬁc
courses that are central to Jesuit education.  These courses are not
covered by the IAI/GECC.  These mission-speciﬁc requirements may be
transferred to Loyola or completed at Loyola, and include courses in the
following Core Areas:
•Philosophical Knowledge and Inquiry  (https://catalog.luc.edu/
undergraduate/university-requirements/university-core/core-area-
and-courses/philosophical-knowledge-inquiry/ )
•Theological and Religious Knowledge and Inquiry  (https://
catalog.luc.edu/undergraduate/university-requirements/university-
core/core-area-and-courses/theological-religious-knowledge-inquiry/ )
•Ethical Knowledge and Inquiry  (https://catalog.luc.edu/
undergraduate/university-requirements/university-core/core-area-
and-courses/ethical-knowledge-inquiry/ )
Transfer students who enter Loyola University from either in-state or out-
of-state institutions will complete their mission-speciﬁc requirements in
accordance with the guidelines below:
For Transfer Students Entering with 30 or More Credit
Hours
1.Students entering Loyola with 4 or 5 of the mission-speciﬁc Core
courses will have completed the mission-speciﬁc Core requirements.
2.Students entering with 2 or 3 of the mission-speciﬁc courses wi ll take
the new transfer student course, either  PHIL 190 Loyola's Mission:
The Philosophical Vision  or THEO 190 Loyola's Mission: Ignatian
Traditions .
3.Students entering with 0 or 1 of the mission-speciﬁc courses will
take the new transfer student course ( PHIL 190 Loyola's Mission:
The Philosophical Vision  or THEO 190 Loyola's Mission: Ignatian
Traditions ) plus  one of the mission-speciﬁc courses not completed;
one of these must be an Ethical Knowledge and Inquiry  (https://
catalog.luc.edu/undergraduate/university-requirements/university-
core/core-area-and-courses/ethical-knowledge-inquiry/ ) course if
they have not already taken an Ethics course.
For Students Entering with Fewer than 30 Credit Hours
Students will be required to satisfy the same set of Core Curriculum
requirements as students who enter as freshmen.
Transfer Credit Policy for New (First Time) Freshman
Students entering as freshman are not transfer students. Please
refer to the  transfer credit policy for new (ﬁrst time) freshman
(p. 2283 ) administered by the Ofﬁce of Registration and Records for
more information on the credits that may count toward undergraduate
degree requirements.Diversity and the Core
The current Core, which was launched in Fall 2012, introduces students
to ten central Core Areas of university learning, with a consistent focus
on learning outcomes for those Areas. In addition to the content of the
speciﬁc  Core Areas  (p. 1406 ), Core courses integrate the understanding
and promoting of values essential to a Loyola education, such as
understanding diversity in the US or the world, understanding and
promoting justice, and understanding spirituality or faith in action in the
world.
With regard to  understanding diversity in the US or world , many courses
in the Core were speciﬁcally designed to address this important value
and allow students to develop the speciﬁc competencies that are shown
below.
Demonstrate an understanding of diversity in the United States and the
world.
Competencies : By way of example, Loyola graduates should be able to:
1.Recognize that human diversity is complex and variegated.
2.Distinguish the various factors that inform and impact individual
identity formation.
3.Comprehend how group identities are formed in a heterogeneous
society.
4.Identify distinctive patterns of thought and behavior that contribute
to the formation of a culture different from one's own.
5.Perceive the interdependence of cultures in domestic and global
terms.
Currently one-third of all courses in the University Core Curriculum are
diversity-designated, including all Tier 1 Societal and Cultural Knowledge
and Inquiry courses. Courses with a Diversity Designation are indicated
with a (D) next the course titles listed under  Core Areas and courses
(p. 1406 ) so that they can be easily identiﬁed.
The Loyola University Chicago Core Curriculum is a critical element in
a student’s transformative education that serves as a framework for
learning, reflecting and experiencing, as Loyola students prepare for
lives seeking knowledge in the service of humanity.  The integration of
diversity as a core value in this curriculum is an essential component of
this enterprise.
Core and Your Major and Minor
Some Core Area requirements can be satisﬁed by virtue of completing a
major or minor program of study, given the extensive work a student must
do in a particular knowledge area while pursuing such a program of study.
The following waivers concern Core Area requirements, not major or
minor requirements.  Please see your major or minor advisor for details
about those requirements.
If you change majors or minors, you may have completed some Core
Curriculum requirements prior to the change. Please check with your
academic advisor for conﬁrmation of your remaining Core Curriculum
requirements.

--- Page 1383 ---
1414  Core and Your Major and Minor
College/School
College of Arts and Sciences:  MajorsProgramCore Area Satisﬁed
African Studies and the
African Diaspora (BA)Societal/CulturalAnthropology (BA and BS)Scientiﬁc; Societal/Cultural
Applied Mathematics (BS) Quantitative; Scientiﬁc (effective Fall 2023)Art History (BA)Artistic
Biochemistry (BA and BS) Scientiﬁc; QuantitativeBioinformatics (BS)Scientiﬁc; Quantitative
Biology (BS) Scientiﬁc; QuantitativeBiology: Ecology Emphasis
(BS)Scientiﬁc; Quantitative
Biology: Molecular Biology
Emphasis (BS)Scientiﬁc; QuantitativeBiophysics (BS)Scientiﬁc; Quantitative
Chemistry (BA and BS) Scientiﬁc; QuantitativeClassical Civilization (BA)Literary
Cognitive and Behavioral
Neuroscience (BS)Scientiﬁc; QuantitativeComputer Science (BS)Quantitative
Criminal Justice and
Criminology (BS)Societal/Cultural; QuantitativeCybersecurity (BS)Quantitative
Dance (BA) ArtisticData Science (BS)Quantitative
Economics (BA) Societal/Cultural; QuantitativeEngineering: Biomedical
Engineering (BS)Scientiﬁc; Quantitative; Artistic
Engineering: Computer
Engineering (BS)Scientiﬁc; Quantitative; ArtisticEngineering: Environmental
Engineering (BS)Scientiﬁc; Quantitative; Artistic
English (BA) LiteraryEnglish: Creative Writing
Concentration (BA)Literary
Forensic Science (BS) Scientiﬁc; Quantitative; Philosophical - Tier
IIFrench (BA)Literary
Global Studies (BA) Societal/CulturalGreek (BA)Literary
History (BA) HistoricalHuman Services (BS)Societal/Cultural; Quantitative
Information Technology (BS) QuantitativeItalian (BA)Literary
Italian Studies (BA) N/ALatin (BA)Literary
Mathematics (BS) Quantitative; Scientiﬁc (effective Fall 2023)Mathematics and Computer
Science (BS)Quantitative
Mathematics Education (BS) QuantitativeMolecular and Cellular
Neuroscience (BS)Scientiﬁc; QuantitativeMusic (BA) ArtisticMusic: Jazz Studies (BA)Artistic
Music: Liturgical Music (BA) ArtisticMusic: Vocal Performance
(BA)Artistic
Philosophy (BA) Philosophical; Ethics; Loyola's Mission
(PHIL 190/THEO 190)Philosophy: Social Justice
Concentration (BA)Philosophical; Ethics; Loyola's Mission
(PHIL 190/THEO 190)
Physics (BS) Scientiﬁc; QuantitativePhysics and Computer
Science (BS)Scientiﬁc; Quantitative
Political Science (BA) Societal/CulturalPsychology (BS)Societal/Cultural; Quantitative
Religious Studies (BA) Theological; Loyola's Mission (PHIL 190/
THEO 190)Sociology and Anthropology
(BA)Societal/Cultural; Quantitative
Sociology (BA) Societal/Cultural; QuantitativeSoftware Engineering (BS)Quantitative
Spanish (BA) LiteraryStatistics (BS)Quantitative; Scientiﬁc (effective Fall 2023)
Studio Art: Ceramics and
Sculpture (BA)ArtisticStudio Art: Drawing,
Painting, and Printmaking
(BA)Artistic
Studio Art: Photography
(BA)ArtisticTheatre (BA)Artistic
Theology (BA) Theological; Loyola's Mission (PHIL 190/
THEO 190)Theoretical Physics and
Applied Mathematics (BS)Scientiﬁc; Quantitative
Visual Communication (BA) ArtisticWomen's Studies and
Gender Studies (BA)Societal/Cultural
College of Arts and Sciences:  MinorsProgramCore Area Satisﬁed
Actuarial Science Minor QuantitativeAfrican Studies and the
African Diaspora MinorSocietal/Cultural
Anthropology Minor Societal/CulturalArabic Language and Culture
MinorLiterary
Art History Minor ArtisticAsian Languages and
Literatures MinorLiterary
Asian Studies Minor N/ABioethics MinorScientiﬁc
Bioinformatics Minor N/ABiology MinorScientiﬁc
Biostatistics Minor Quantitative

--- Page 1384 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1415Catholic Studies MinorTheological; Loyola's Mission (PHIL 190/
THEO 190)
Chemistry Minor ScientiﬁcChinese Language and
Culture MinorN/A
Classical Civilization Minor LiteraryComputer Crime and
Forensics MinorQuantitative
Computer Science Minor QuantitativeCriminal Justice and
Criminology MinorSocietal/Cultural
Dance Minor ArtisticData Science MinorQuantitative
English Minor LiteraryEthics and Moral Philosophy
MinorPhilosophical; Loyola's Mission (PHIL 190/
THEO 190)
European Studies Minor Societal and Cultural – Tier 2French Language and
Literature MinorLiterary
French Language Minor N/AGerman Studies MinorN/A
Global Studies Minor N/AGreek (Ancient) MinorLiterary
History Minor HistoricalInformation Technology
MinorN/A
Interreligious and Interfaith
Studies MinorTheological – Tier 2Islamic World Studies MinorN/A
Italian American Studies
MinorSocietal and Cultural – Tier 2Italian Language and
Literature MinorLiterary
Italian Language Minor N/AJapanese Language and
Culture MinorN/A
Latin American and Latino
Studies MinorN/ALatin MinorLiterary
Law and Politics Minor N/ALiterature in Translation
MinorLiterary
Mathematics Minor QuantitativeMedieval Studies MinorN/A
Music Minor ArtisticMusical Theatre MinorArtistic
Neuroscience Minor ScientiﬁcOperations Research MinorQuantitative
Pastoral Leadership Minor TheologicalPeace, Justice, and Conflict
Studies MinorSocietal/Cultural
Philosophy Minor Philosophical; Loyola's Mission (PHIL 190/
THEO 190)Physics MinorScientiﬁc; QuantitativePolish Studies Minor N/APolitical Science MinorSocietal/Cultural
Psychology Minor Societal/CulturalPsychology of Crime and
Justice MinorSocietal/Cultural
Religious Studies Minor Theological; Loyola's Mission (PHIL 190/
THEO 190)Shakespeare Studies MinorLiterary – Tier 2
Sociolegal Studies Minor Societal and CulturalSociology MinorSocietal and Cultural
Spanish Language and
Literature MinorLiterarySpanish Language MinorN/A
Statistics Minor QuantitativeStudio Art MinorArtistic
Studio Art: Ceramics Minor
ArtisticArtisticStudio Art: Drawing,
Painting, and Printmaking
MinorArtistic
Studio Art: Photography
MinorArtisticTeaching Artists MinorN/A
Theatre Minor ArtisticTheology MinorTheological
Urban Studies Minor N/AUrban Studies:
Sustainability MinorN/A
Visual Communication
MinorArtisticWomen's Studies and
Gender Studies MinorSocietal/Cultural
Quinlan School of BusinessProgramCore Area Satisﬁed
Accounting (BBA) Quantitative; Societal/Cultural; Tier 2
PhilosophicalAccounting and Analytics
(BBA)Quantitative; Societal/Cultural; Tier 2
Philosophical
Economics (BBA) Quantitative; Societal/Cultural; Tier 2
PhilosophicalEntrepreneurship (BBA)Quantitative; Societal/Cultural; Tier 2
Philosophical
Finance (BBA) Quantitative; Societal/Cultural; Tier 2
PhilosophicalHuman Resource
Management (BBA)Quantitative; Societal/Cultural; Tier 2
Philosophical
Information Systems and
Analytics (BBA)Quantitative; Societal/Cultural; Tier 2
PhilosophicalInternational Business (BBA)Quantitative; Societal/Cultural; Tier 2
Philosophical
Marketing (BBA) Quantitative; Societal/Cultural; Tier 2
PhilosophicalManagement (BBA)Quantitative; Societal/Cultural; Tier 2
Philosophical

--- Page 1385 ---
1416  Core and Your Major and Minor
Operations Management
(BBA)Quantitative; Societal/Cultural; Tier 2
PhilosophicalSport Management (BBA)Quantitative; Societal/Cultural; Tier 2
Philosophical
Accounting Information
Systems MinorN/ABusiness Administration
MinorN/A
Economics Minor N/AEntrepreneurship MinorN/A
Finance Minor N/AInformation Systems MinorN/A
International Business Minor N/AManagement MinorN/A
Marketing Minor N/AOperations Management
MinorN/A
Sport Management Minor N/ASustainability Management
MinorN/A
School of Continuing and Professional
StudiesProgramCore Area Satisﬁed
Applied Psychology (BA) Societal/Cultural; QuantitativeApplied Studies (BA)Tier 2 Societal/Cultural; Quantitative
Information Technology (BA) QuantitativeManagement (BA)Societal/Cultural; Quantitative
Paralegal Studies (BA) N/AStrategic Digital
CommunicationN/A
Web Technologies N/ACONCENTRATIONSApplied Pastoral Studies TheologicalComputer ScienceN/A
Cybersecurity Technology
ManagementN/AIntroduction to Data ScienceN/A
New Media Communication N/AOrganizational Development
and LeadershipTier 2 Societal/Cultural
Organizational Psychology Societal/CulturalParalegal StudiesN/A
User Experience Design N/AWeb Design and
DevelopmentN/A
School of CommunicationProgramCore Area Satisﬁed
Advertising & Public
Relations (BA)Tier 2 Societal/Cultural; Tier 2
PhilosophicalAdvertising Creative (BA)Tier 2 Societal/Cultural; Tier 2
PhilosophicalAdvocacy and Social
Change (BA)Tier 2 Societal/Cultural; Tier 2
PhilosophicalCommunication Studies
(BA)Tier 2 Societal/Cultural; Tier 2
Philosophical
Film and Digital Media (BA) Artistic; Tier 2 Philosophical (prior to Fall
2023); Tier 2 Societal/Cultural (effective
Fall 2023)Multimedia Journalism (BA)Tier 2 Societal/Cultural; Tier 2
Philosophical
Advertising Minor Tier 2 Societal/CulturalAdvocacy and Social
Change MinorTier 2 Societal/Cultural
Communication Studies
MinorTier 2 Societal/CulturalDigital Media MinorTier 2 Philosophical
Environmental
Communication MinorScientiﬁcFilm and Digital Media MinorArtistic
Multimedia Journalism
MinorTier 2 Societal/CulturalProfessional
Communication MinorN/A
Public Relations Minor Tier 2 Societal/Cultural
School of EducationProgramCore Area Satisﬁed
Bilingual/Bicultural
Education (BSEd)Literary; Tier 2 Historical; Tier 2
Philosophical; QuantitativeEarly Childhood Special
Education (BSEd)Tier 2 Literary; Tier 2 Historical; Tier 2
Philosophical; Quantitative
Elementary Education
(BSEd)Tier 2 Literary; Tier 2 Historical; Tier 2
PhilosophicalMiddle Grade Education
(BSEd)Tier 2 Literary; Tier 2 Historical; Tier 2
Philosophical
Secondary Education (BSEd) Tier 2 Historical; Tier 2 PhilosophicalSpecial Education (BSEd)Tier 2 Literary; Tier 2 Historical; Tier 2
Philosophical; Quantitative
Bilingual Education Minor LiteraryEducation Policy Studies
MinorTier 2 Historical; Tier 2 Philosophical
Reading Teacher Minor Literary
School of Environmental SustainabilityProgramCore Area Satisﬁed
Environmental Science (BS) Scientiﬁc; QuantitativeEnvironmental Science:
Conservation and
Restoration (BS)Scientiﬁc; Quantitative
Environmental Science:
Food Systems/Sustainable
Agriculture (BS)Scientiﬁc; QuantitativeEnvironmental Science:
Environmental Health (BS)Scientiﬁc; Quantitative
Environmental Policy (BA) Scientiﬁc; Societal/Cultural; QuantitativeEnvironmental Studies (BA)Scientiﬁc; Societal/Cultural; Quantitative

--- Page 1386 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1417
Environmental Action and
Leadership MinorN/AEnvironmental Science
MinorScientiﬁc; Quantitative
Environmental Economics
and Sustainability MinorN/A
Parkinson School of Health Sciences and
Public HealthProgramCore Area Satisﬁed
Public Health (BS) Scientiﬁc; QuantitativeExercise Science (BS)Scientiﬁc, Quantitative, Tier 2 Societal/
Cultural
Healthcare Administration
(BS)Quantitative; Societal/Cultural; Tier 2
PhilosophicalExercise Science MinorScientiﬁc
Healthcare Administration
MinorN/A
Marcella Niehoff School of NursingProgramCore Area Satisﬁed
Nursing (BSN) Quantitative; Scientiﬁc; Societal/Cultural;
Tier 2 Philosophical
School of Social Work ProgramCore Area Satisﬁed
Social Work (BSW) Societal/CulturalSocial Work MinorN/A
Honors and the Core
100-level Honors
Upon successful completion of HONR 101 Western Traditions - Antiquity
to the Middle Ages  and HONR D101 Developments Western Thought I
Discussion , the following Core requirements are waived:  Philosophical
Knowledge and Inquiry Tier 1 (3 credit hours); Theological & Religious
Knowledge and Inquiry Tier 1 (3 credit hours).
Upon successful completion of HONR 102 Western Traditions-
Renaissance to Modernity  and HONR D102 Developments in Historical
Western Thought II Discussion , the following Core requirements are
waived:  Artistic Knowledge and Inquiry (3 credit hours); Literary
Knowledge and Inquiry Tier 1 (3 credit hours).
Upon successful completion of HONR 101, HONR D101, HONR 102, and
HONR D102, the requirement for College Writing Seminar,  UCWR 110
Writing Responsibly , is waived.  HONR D102 is a Writing Intensive course.
200-level Honors Courses
Honors students who successfully complete all four 200-level Honors
requirements will receive four Core waivers as follows:
•Historical Knowledge and Inquiry Tier 2
•Societal and Cultural Knowledge and Inquiry Tier 2
•Literary Knowledge and Inquiry Tier 2
•Scientiﬁc Knowledge and Inquiry Tier 2Please note:  You must complete ALL FOUR 200-level Honors course
requirements before the four Core course waivers are applied.   Students
who leave the Honors program before completing their Honors 200-
level requirements must appeal to the Director of Core Curriculum
(Core@luc.edu ) to determine whether any of their 200-level Honors
courses can lead to Core waivers.
Education students in Honors are not required to take HONR 203; and
Engineering students in Honors are not required to take HONR 204.
Honors students can take a 200 or 300 level history course to fulﬁll their
History Tier 1 requirement. To utilize this exception, the HIST course must
be taken at a Loyola University Chicago campus and cannot be a transfer
credit of any kind. Transfer credit for HIST 101, 102, 103, 104 can still be
utilized to fulﬁll Tier 1 HIST requirement.
300-level Honors Capstone:  Moral
Responsibility
Upon successful completion of HONR 301 Honors Capstone: Moral
Responsibility , the Core requirement for Ethical Knowledge and Inquiry (3
credit hours) is waived.
Be aware students will be required to fulﬁll the Quantitative Knowledge
and Inquiry (3 credit hours); Historical Knowledge and Inquiry Tier 1 (3
credit hours); Philosophical Knowledge and Inquiry Tier 2 (3 credit hours);
Scientiﬁc Knowledge and Inquiry Tier 1 (3 credit hours); Societal and
Cultural Knowledge and Inquiry Tier 1 (3 credit hours); and Theological
and Religious Knowledge and Inquiry Tier 2 (3 credit hours) outside of the
Honors Program.
Engaged Learning in the Honors Program
All Honors students are required to take 3 credit hours of Engaged
Learning coursework.  These courses provide a core learning experience
integrated into a course that engages students in learning outside the
classroom.  You can ﬁnd more information on the Engaged Learning
(p. 1417 ) page.
HONR 290 Literacy Center  does not  satisfy any requirements within the
Honors program, but it can be taken to satisfy the Engaged Learning
requirement.
Additional Information
Visit the Interdisciplinary Honors  (p. 512) page for additional
information about the program and requirements.
Engaged Learning
The Engaged Learning requirement supports the mission of Loyola
University Chicago by embedding opportunities for students to explore
the many different forms of experiential learning as part of their academic
coursework.  All undergraduate students are required to complete at least
one Engaged Learning course/s totaling at least three (3) credit hours
prior to graduation.
Check out the course offerings below:
•Fall 2025 Academic Internship Courses  (https://www.luc.edu/media/
lucedu/celts/semesterelcourses/FALL%202025%20-%20AI.pdf )
•Fall 2025 Research Courses  (https://www.luc.edu/media/lucedu/
celts/semesterelcourses/FALL%202025%20-%20UR.pdf )

--- Page 1387 ---
1418  Academic Internships
•Fall 2025 Service-Learning Courses  (https://www.luc.edu/media/
lucedu/celts/semesterelcourses/FALL%202025%20-%20SL.pdf )
•Spring 2025 Academic Internship Courses  (https://
www.luc.edu/media/lucedu/celts/semesterelcourses/Spring
%202025%20Academic%20Internship%20EL%20Courses.pdf )
•Spring 2025 Research Courses  (https://www.luc.edu/media/lucedu/
celts/semesterelcourses/Spring%202025%20Undergrad%20EL
%20Courses.pdf )
•Spring 2025 Service-Learning Courses  (https://www.luc.edu/media/
lucedu/celts/semesterelcourses/Spring%202025%20Service-
Learning%20EL%20Courses.pdf )
•Fall 2024 Academic Internship Courses  (https://catalog.luc.edu/
undergraduate/university-requirements/engaged-learning/
Fall_2024_AI_List.pdf )
•Fall 2024 Research Courses  (https://catalog.luc.edu/undergraduate/
university-requirements/engaged-learning/Fall_2024_UR_List.pdf )
•Fall 2024 Service-Learning Courses  (https://catalog.luc.edu/
undergraduate/university-requirements/engaged-learning/
Fall_2024_SL_List.pdf )
Engaged Learning courses are those that provide all of the following:
•A structured learning experience integrated into a course that
engages students in learning outside the classroom, such as in a
community agency, professional organization, or in a research setting
•Critical reflection on that experience through various assignments in
class
•Synthesis of the experience through a ﬁnal project or  learning
portfolio  (https://www.luc.edu/celts/programs/learningportfolio/ ).
Engaged Learning courses may be offered by either individual
departments, academic programs, and the Center for Engaged Learning,
Teaching, and Scholarship. This requirement may be satisﬁed by a course
within the Core Curriculum, or in a student’s major or minor, or through an
elective course. Students may engage in these courses during the regular
academic year, summer semester, J-Term, a capstone course or a study
abroad experience.
Since a requirement of all Engaged Learning courses is for students
to complete a ﬁnal project or a learning porfolio, click  here  (https://
www.luc.edu/celts/programs/learningportfolio/ ) to learn more about
learning portfolios. Learning portfolios, often referred to as a ePortfolios,
are high-impact tools for learning. They are a digital collection of
students' demonstrated knowledge, competencies and skills represented
through learning artifacts. Learning portfolios assist students to deepen
critical reflections and integrate learning across course concepts,
academic disciplines, and co-curricular experiences.
Upon designating a course as Engaged Learning, the course remains
designated as Engaged Learning until notice is given otherwise.
Academic departments and/or faculty instructors must communicate
if a course changes (new course number, for example) or if a course
retires the Engaged Learning designation; please communicate
with the Director of Engaged Learning, Dr. Patrick Green (Executive
Director, Center for Engaged Learning, Teaching, & Scholarship) at
engagedlearning@luc.edu .  You can also access  Frequently Asked
Questions about Engaged Learning?  (https://www.luc.edu/media/celts/
Engaged%20Learning%20FAQs.pdf ).Academic Internships
For a course to be designated as “Academic Internship”, satisfying the
University Engaged Learning requirement, it must meet all the criteria
below.  Criteria for academic internship courses are based on research
and best practices, the CAS Standards for Internships (2009), and
the National Association of Colleges and Employers (NACE) Position
Statement on U.S. Internships (2011).
1.The academic course in which students engage in an internship clearly
states the hours requirement (minimum of 100 hours of work).
2.The internship must be approved by the faculty instructor, as it is the
extension of the classroom and applying knowledge gained in the
classroom.
3.The internship experience has a clear position description with a
professional organization related to their ﬁeld of study, educational goals
and/or career and vocational aspirations.
4.The learning objectives related to the internship experience are clearly
articulated related to their ﬁeld of study, educational goals and/or career
and vocational aspirations.
5.There is supervision and feedback by a professional with expertise
related to their ﬁeld of study, educational goals and/or career and
vocational aspirations.
6.The syllabus assignments include reflection assignments and a ﬁnal
synthesis project integrated into the course.
All courses that have been approved to satisfy the University Engaged
Learning Requirement are designated with an "E" appended to their
section number, e.g. ANTH 301 01E. Comprehensive listings of all
approved Engaged Learning classes offered each semester can be found
in LOCUS  (http://www.luc.edu/locus/ ).
Please Note:  Past internships are not considered for Engaged Learning credit.
Students with an approved internship must enroll in an academic internship
course that has been designated for Engaged Learning by the University’s
Engaged Learning Subcommittee of the Board of Undergraduate Studies
(BUS). The academic internship course and the internship experi ence are
done concurrently (in the same semester).
College of Arts and Sciences
AFR 397   Capstone/Internship   (3 Credit Hours)   
This capstone course may be completed in a variety of ways. This
includes an internship at a business or organization that is related to the
program, or a study abroad semester related to the program. Internships
require a minimum of 10 hours/week veriﬁed service hours over the 15
week semester, amounting to 3 credit hours. Students may also make a
300 level AFR course into a "Capstone" by adding an additional, in-depth
research assignment approved by the course instructor and the program
director. Director approval is required for this course.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   

--- Page 1388 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1419
ANTH 396   Internship in Anthropology   (3-6 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Students must receive instructor permission prior to
enrolling and must complete (with signatures) the Course Contract Form   
Enrollment is limited to Undergraduate Anthropology Majors/Minors.
This course is designed to enhance student engagement by facilitating
internship experiences within the department or in museums, service-
oriented organizations, businesses, and non-proﬁt organizations.
Experiential learning is combined with rigorous academic work. This
course may serve, if appropriate, as a capstone experience.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will produce a research paper, project, proposal, or assessed
piece that reflects the application and integration of anthropological
theory, methods, or techniques, to the internship experience
BIOI 398   Bioinformatics Internship   (1-4 Credit Hours)   
An independent research experience involving laboratory experiments,
computer program development, or statistical analysis or any
combination of these performed off-campus under the mentorship of a
Bioinformatics scientist not afﬁliated with Loyola.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Bioinformatics   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
All students will acquire skills to perform and report on independent
research and to be intellectually responsible for evaluating their own and
related work; Other outcomes will include at least one of the following:
Experimental expertise, statistical evaluation of data sets, design and use
of computational tools
BIOL 398   Internship in Biology   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Permission of Instructor; Contract required   
A supervised ﬁeld placement intended to give students training or work
experience in aspects of biology that cannot be obtained on campus.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will acquire practical experience in biology-related job settings
CHEM 399   Internship in Biochemistry or Chemistry   (2-3 Credit Hours)   
A supervised ﬁeld placement to give students training or work experience
in aspects of biochemistry or chemistry that are not commonly available
on campus. Students will work outside the classroom (e.g. industrial
setting or national lab) applying and extending their biochemis try or
chemistry skills, typically for at least 150 hours to receive 3 credits or for
more than 100 hours for 2 credits. Permission of faculty advisor Students
must complete a total of 3 credits to receive engaged learning credit.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will acquire practical experience in biochemistry or chemistry
related job settings
CLST 382   Internship in Classical Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students complete a semester-long internship (100 hours minimum) that
builds on their training in Classical Studies.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will gain practical experience while applying theories and
techniques gained from courseworkCOMP 391   Internship in Computer Science   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
Students work outside the classroom applying and extending their
computer science skills, typically for at least 150 hours for 3  credits. A
memorandum of understanding is required between a student, his or
her employer, and the Undergraduate Program Director, followed by ﬁnal
reports from the student and the employer.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Application of classroom skills to real-world situations
CJC 390   Capstone Experience Internship   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CRMJ Majors and Minors, Psychology of Crime and Justice
Minors, Forensic Science Majors   
The purpose of this course is to enhance the student's development and
learning through observational and participatory experience in criminal
justice agencies.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to contribute in a meaningful way to the operation
of a speciﬁc criminal justice agency and be able to identify and describe
the link between their ﬁeld experience and prior courses
DANC 394   Internship in Dance   (1-12 Credit Hours)   
Dance students complete a semester long internship providing an
opportunity to use their technical, research or organizations skills in
a professional setting. Students must complete and reflect upon 50
hours of internship experience per credit hour that is pre-approved by
the Department of Fine and Performing Arts. Department permission is
required.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students gain professional experience working at a dance organization
while reflecting on their work experience and applying theories and
techniques acquired from their ﬁrst dance courses
ENGL 393   Teaching English to Adults: Internship   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore Standing or above   
This course offers training and practical experience in tutoring adults
in written and spoken English in a volunteer literacy program at Loyola
University. Students examine literacy issues and write a research paper.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate understanding of societal and
cultural factors affecting literacy, and will develop communication and
critical thinking skills
ENGL 394   Internship   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior standing, six English courses   
This course provides on-the-job experience for majors in adapting their
writing and analytical skills to the needs of such ﬁelds as publishing,
editing, and public relations.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to analyze their experience in terms of the skills
they brought to their jobs, what they learned about the ﬁelds they worked
in, and what new skills they developed as a result of their experiences

--- Page 1389 ---
1420  Academic Internships
FNAR 368   Fine Arts Internship   (1-4 Credit Hours)   
A comprehensive introduction to gallery and/or studio operations in
the Fine Arts Division. Internships will provide opportunities in various
aspects of administration, scholarship, teaching, and sustaining
standards in studio and/or gallery performance. Gallery internships
available at Loyola's Fine Arts Galleries. External internships upon
approval. Teaching/studio assistantship based on class availability.
Departmental consent required for enrollment.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will develop practical experience for the professional world and
be able to demonstrate knowledge of gallery/museum administration,
scholarship, exhibition production, and/or class preparation and teaching
FNAR 380   Internship I   (1-4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FNAR 332 Visual Communication III; Fine Arts Majors only   
Visual Communication majors complete an internship providing an
opportunity to use their visual and technical skills in a professional
setting.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students work with others to develop and complete projects on
a predetermined schedule; they get the opportunity to learn from
professionals in the ﬁeld; they ﬁnd out how well they are doing as judged
by the world outside the classroom
FNAR 381   Internship II   (1-4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Permission of chairperson   
Visual Communication majors complete an internship providing an
opportunity to use their visual and technical skills in a professional
setting.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students work with others to develop and complete projects on
a predetermined schedule; they get the opportunity to learn from
professionals in the ﬁeld; they ﬁnd out how well they are doing as judged
by the world outside the classroom
FREN 395   Internship   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of at least one 300-level French course and
instructor's consent   
Eligible students who have secured an internship related to the ﬁeld of
study may complete an internship for credit, with the approval of a faculty
member. Students complete reflective assignments and a ﬁnal project in
French, in consultation with the faculty member.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students gain professional experience while working with the French
language and Francophone cultures and applying skills they have learned
in the classroom
FRSC 390   Forensic Science Internship   (3-4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  FRSC 342; Forensic Science Majors Only   
The purpose of this course is to enhance the student's development and
learning through observational and participatory experience in forensic
focused criminal justice agencies.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Forensic Science   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  X-FRSC 390/ANTH 396A   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to contribute in a meaningful way to the operation
of a speciﬁc forensic focused criminal justice agency and be able to
identify and describe the link between their ﬁeld experience and prior
coursesHIST 398   History Internship   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course provides three hours credit for students engaged in history
related internships in the public and private sectors.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to obtain an internship position, to learn on-the-
job from an experienced practitioner in a wide variety of public and
private sector settings, to draw links between their present situation and
historical research, and to develop critical thinking and communication
skills
HMSV 390   Supervised Fieldwork II   (6 Credit Hours)   
No course description is available
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
GLST 370   Internship in Global Studies   (3-6 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Open to all GLST major and minors but requires instructor
permission to enroll   
Students enrolled in this course must secure an internship relevant to
the ﬁeld of global studies. Students not only engage in regular workplace
activities but also attend class meetings, complete writing assignments
reflecting on their internship placements, write a ﬁnal paper, and submit a
ﬁnal evaluation from their workplace supervisor.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora, Asian
Studies, European Studies, Global Studies, Islamic World Studies, Latin
American Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate awareness of at least one important global
concern or issue as addressed in the internship
ITAL 395   Internship   (3 Credit Hours)   
The internship will enable students to gain practical experience in
working in Italian government institutions in Chicago (such as the Italian
Cultural Institute) or working in businesses or education.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Italian Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will work 4-8 per week and reflect on their experience in
conversations with supervising professor and other interns
MUSC 394   Internship in Music   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
Music students complete a semester long internship providing an
opportunity to use their technical, research or organizations skills in
a professional setting. Students must complete and reflect upon 50
hours of internship experience per credit hour that is pre-approved by
the Department of Fine and Performing Arts. Department permission
required. No more than 6 credit hours of Internship or Fieldwork can be
applied to the major.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students gain professional experience working at a music organization
while reflecting on their work experience and applying theories and
techniques acquired from their music courses

--- Page 1390 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1421
PLSC 370   Fieldwork in Political Science-Internship   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
Practical experience in political and governmental agencies and
organizations in Chicago and Washington, D.C.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students learn about different forms of public service and the ethical
responsibilities of civic engagement; Working in a professional ofﬁce for
ﬁfteen weeks allows students to experience the world of public service
ﬁrst-hand; Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of
models of leadership and public service by working with supervisors who
are normally leaders in their ﬁelds
POST 395   Polish Studies Capstone   (3 Credit Hours)   
Capstone course to the POST Minor program. This is a tutorial course
with a service learning component that serves an integrative purpose.
In the tutorial students will focus on a speciﬁc issue or theme  in POST .
The syllabus will reflect the research interests of the faculty member who
administers the course.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Polish Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to integrate their coursework in the POST minor with
their major concentration
PSYC 390   Internship in Psychology   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  PSYC 304 and approval via an internship application due on
the 5th Friday of the previous semester   
Capstone service-learning experience for psychology majors, involving
application and development of psychological knowledge and skills
through an internship (100 hours) in a human service organization or
applied research setting, combined with regular class meetings, reading
and writing assignments. Students arrange placements and complete a
project on site. Application details may be found here: https://luc.edu/
psychology/undergraduate/internshipinpsychology. Practical, pre-
professional job skills, critical analysis and connection between theory
and practice, on topics of: human service agency operation; effective
working relationships; professional communication; cultural competence;
values and ethics.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
SOCL 380   Internship   (3-6 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Permission of instructor or chair   
Supervised ﬁeld experience for students working in a selected community
organization, government agency, social agency, or business.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students have opportunity to apply the skills and analysis of sociology to
a concrete situation
SPAN 395   Internship   (3 Credit Hours)   
The internship will allow students to work in a variety of settings using
Spanish - business, education, government, or social service agencies.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will gain practical experience in speaking and writing SpanishSTAT 391   Internship in Actuarial Science   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  STAT 304 and 396; approval of the internship director   
This course offers an opportunity to obtain experience in actuarial
science in a professional environment; placement requires approval of
the internship coordinator and acceptance by an employer.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will obtain ﬁrst hand experience doing actuarial work in a real
world environment
THEO 348   Supervised Ministry   (3 Credit Hours)   
Placement in a ministerial position, on-site supervision, and biweekly
individual or group meetings with the course director is required.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to demonstrate how a sacramental system of
aesthetics is often embedded in cultural artifacts
THTR 394   Internship in Theatre   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
Theatre students complete a semester long internship providing an
opportunity to use their technical, research or organizations skills in
a professional setting. Students must complete and reflect upon 50
hours of internship experience per credit hour that is pre-approved by
the Department of Fine and Performing Arts. Department Permission
Required. No more than 6 credit hours of Internship of Fieldwork may be
applied to the major.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students gain professional experience working at a theatrical
organization while reflecting on their work experience and applying
theories and techniques acquired from their theatre courses
WSGS 398   Women's Studies Internship   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course uses supervised project-based experiential learning to allow
students the opportunity to apply feminist analysis and practical skills to
a student-designed project that will be completed within the timeframe of
a course term.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  WOST398/WSGS398   
Outcomes:
Students learn application of feminist concepts and principles to
pragmatic outcomes; leadership, planning, time management, and
assessment skills
Rome Campus
•GLST 370 Internship in Global Studies
•ITAL 395 Internship

--- Page 1391 ---
1422  Academic Internships
Center for Engaged Learning, Teaching, &
Scholarship/Ofﬁce of the Provost
EXPL 390   Internship Seminar: Organizational Change and Community
Leadership   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a seminar course focusing on organizational leadership
and change through a 100 hour internship experience with a non-proﬁt
organization, government agency, or business organization, pre-approved
by the Center for Experiential Learning.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  CPST398/UNIV390   
Outcomes:
Students will gain professional experience at an organization
while reflecting on their work experience and applying theories of
organizational leadership, civic engagement, community development,
and leadership in the community
EXPL 393   Seminar in Integrative Leadership   (3 Credit Hours)   
This is a seminar course for students leaders in approved co-curricular
programs (e.g., ABI leaders, student organization executive board,
Loyola4Chicago leaders, etc.). Students in this course will complete at
least 100 hours in a leadership experience in the context of in tegrative
leadership theory culminating in a portfolio to demonstrate holistic
leadership capacity.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
1) Develop understanding of leadership theories, reflection on actions,
and integrative leadership theories; 2) Enhance connection to the
institution through leadership experience, and academic and professional
learning and development; 3) Produce an integrative professional
portfolio
UNIV 392   Internship Seminar in Ignatian Praxis   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Approval by the Ofﬁce of Student Transitions and Outreach
Students in this internship course will complete at least 100 internship
hours in Ofﬁce of Student Transition and Outreach programs   
Students reflect on their work experience in the context of Ignatian
critical reflection and will put theory into practice.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
1) Development understanding of reflection on actions and Ignatian
traditions; 2) Enhance connection to the institution through internship
work, and academic and professional learning and development; 3) Foster
critical thinking and reflective writing skills
Institute of Environmental Sustainability
ENVS 395   Environmental Internship   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students seek out and engage in a semester- or summer-long internship
with a civic, business, governmental, or academic group providing hands-
on experience in work on environmental issues.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  ENVS395/ESP395/NTSC395   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate, through daily activity logs and a
comprehensive ﬁnal report, a clear understanding of the environmental
context and practical applications of their internship experience Interdisciplinary Honors Program
HONR 290   Literacy Center   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Students in or beyond their second semester; UCWR 110 or
equivalent   
This course offers training and practical experience in tutoring adults in
written and spoken English in a volunteer literacy program. Students will
be able to demonstrate understanding of societal and cultural factors
affecting literacy, and will develop communication and critical thinking
skills.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
HONR 370   Fieldwork in Honors - Internship   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
The main goal of this course is to provide students with valuable work
experience in a professional ﬁeld connected with their academic program.
It allows students to apply and further develop their knowledge and
skills through an internship in a non-academic setting. The course
is also intended to serve as a "bridge" between college and career.
This internship presents an opportunity for students to gain valuable
professional experience as an intern in public or private institutions
engaged in public service projects. HONR 370 will satisfy the "service"
requirement for all Honors students.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Parkinson School of Health Science and
Public Health
EXCM 395   Clinical Internship and Patient Management   (6 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  EXCM 201 and Anatomy & Physiology (GNUR 155/155L
and GNUR 156/156L), 4 of 8 upper division EXCM courses   
Practical experience working with exercise physiologists, physical
therapists, occupational therapists, rehabilitation therapists, and others,
in cardiac care and orthopedic rehabilitation.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
HSM 360   Healthcare Administration Field Internship   (6 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  HSM 200, 310, 315, 330, 338, 345, 358, 368, 386 and
FINC 301   
This professional experience provides exposure to and experience in
the healthcare environment. Under the supervision of a ﬁeld preceptor
and faculty advisor, students work with a healthcare organization
integrating content gained through prior HCA coursework. Students
develop and reﬁne skills and practical knowledge by conducting a
goal-based project(s) of value to the internship site. Project objectives
are developed in concert between student, faculty, and preceptor. The
experience involves three on-campus seminars, preparation of seminar
deliverables plus a minimum of 196 on-site hours fulﬁlled on a weekly
basis as mutually agreed between student and preceptor. The ﬁeld
experience as facilitated by Loyola University Chicago and the HCA
Program concludes at the close of the semester and may or may not be
compensated.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
1) Apply healthcare administration theoretical knowledge, concepts,
and skills to the practice setting; 2) Solve project challenges through
the use of analytical and reflective tools; 3) Function as a collaborative
team member; 4) Demonstrate critical thinking and reﬁne communication
skills; 5) Apply strategies of ethical reasoning to arrive at principled
decisions in the Jesuit tradition; 6) Integrate supervisory, and faculty
feedback to improve personal skills, knowledge, and effectiveness;
and 7) Demonstrate the ability to work independently, thoughtfully, and
resourcefully

--- Page 1392 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1423
PUBH 310   Public Health Internship   (3 Credit Hours)   
This practical internship course will integrate theory, where students will
unpack the complexities of Public Health and gain an understanding of
the roles and responsibilities of professionals. Careers in Public Health
are multidimensional, students will integrate real world experience
reflecting on experiences of leadership, health equity, community
engagement, and professional development.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Integrate academic internship experience with course curriculum
academic content through critical reflection of leadership theory and
development; assess leadership identity, leadership behavior, and civic
role in a public health framework
PUBH 399   Public Health Capstone Experience   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is a cumulative, integrative and scholarly or applied
experience or inquiry project. It may include internships, service-learning
projects, senior seminars, portfolio projects, or research paper. The
project provides the opportunity for students to demonstrate proﬁciency
in effective communication skills through a written report and oral
presentation.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Demonstrate in written report and oral presentation the knowledge and
skills acquired during the undergraduate program through selected
projects which translate gained information into public health practice,
including research
 School of Business
IBUS 370   Inernational Business Internship - Engaged Learning   (3-6
Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Sophomore standing, Permission of Instructor   
IBUS 370 is a seminar course that challenges students to analyze the
theory and practices from the world of work that impact the ethics of
leading, interpersonal and organizational dynamics, and competent work
place contributions required for success in the modern business world.
Concepts associated with internship/engaged learning as related to
career development will be addressed. Students are required to work a
minimum of 120 hours over the course of one semester. All internships
must be supervised by professionals and may be paid or unpaid.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
a) Developing a foundation on which a student may build a career; b)
Understanding the role of the Jesuit tradition as it relates to leadership
and service
School of Communication 
COMM 391   Advertising/Public Relations Internship   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior Standing (60 credits earned); Completed 18 credit
hours in COMM courses; Restricted to ADPR majors; Instructor Consent;
More info at: https://www.luc.edu/soc/resources/internships/   
This supervised ﬁeld experience enables students to have hands-on
professional learning at a wide range of agency, corporate, and non-
proﬁt organizations as the basis for learning and reﬁning professional
communication skills.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  CMUN396/COM391/392/393/491/492   COMM 392   Multimedia Journalism Internship   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior Standing (60 credits earned); Restricted to MJRN
majors; Instructor Consent required; More info at: https://www.luc.edu/
soc/resources/internships/   
This supervised ﬁeld experience enables students to have hands-on
professional learning at a wide range of agency, corporate, and non-
proﬁt organizations as the basis for learning and reﬁning professional
communication skills.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  CMUN396/COM391/392/393/491/492   
Outcomes:
Students gain proﬁciency in professional conduct and industry skills
while systematically reflecting on their experiences
COMM 393   Communication Studies Internship   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior Standing (60 credits earned); Restricted to CMAS
and CMUN majors; Instructor Consent required; More info at: https://
www.luc.edu/soc/resources/internships/   
This supervised ﬁeld experience enables students to have hands-on
professional learning at a wide range of agency, corporate, and non-
proﬁt organizations as the basis for learning and reﬁning professional
communication skills. Students gain proﬁciency in professional conduct
and industry skills while systematically reflecting on their experiences.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  CMUN396/COM391/392/393/491/492   
COMM 394   Film & Digital Media Internship   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior Standing (60 credits earned); Restricted to FDMD
majors; Instructor Consent required; More info at: https://www.luc.edu/
soc/resources/internships/   
Complete an internship providing an opportunity to use their visual and
technical and/ or skills in a professional setting.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  COMM 394/COMM 494   
Outcomes:
Students work with others to develop and complete projects on
a predetermined schedule; they get the opportunity to learn from
professionals in the ﬁeld; they ﬁnd out how well they are doing as judged
by the world outside the classroom
School of Continuing and Professional
Studies
CPST 398   Professional Studies Internship Seminar   (2 Credit Hours)   
To enroll students must complete the internship forms through the
Center for Experiential Learning. The Internship Seminar is a w ay to earn
academic credit for an internship completed while ﬁnishing one of the
SCPS BA programs. Students taking CPST 398 must take CPST 399 the
following session to get complete credit for the internship.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  CPST398/UNIV390   
Outcomes:
Applied experience in a professional setting
CPST 399   Professional Studies Internship Seminar II   (2 Credit Hours)   
To enroll students must complete the internship forms through the
Center for Experiential Learning. The Internship Seminar is a w ay to earn
academic credit for an internship completed while ﬁnishing one of the
SCPS BA programs. Students taking CPST 399 must ﬁrst take CPST 398
the previous session to get complete credit for the internship.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Applied experience in a professional setting

--- Page 1393 ---
1424  Fieldwork
School of Education 
ELPS 265   Cultural and Educational Policy Studies Internship   (3 Credit
Hours)   
The Internship in Cultural and Educational Policy Studies course
is intended to help students integrate theoretical and research
coursework with a practical ﬁeld-based experience to reflect on their own
development as professionals working in the ﬁeld of education.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students develop and reﬁne their professional skills and competencies;
Students will be able to identify key education issues domestically and/or
internationally and critically analyze them in terms of the relationship(s)
between policy and practice
School of Nursing
CMAN 380   Community Health   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Must have taken and passed MSN 277, MSN 277L,
GNUR 294, and GNUR 290 with a C- or better; Must also enroll in
CMAN 380L   
Nursing and public health concepts provide theoretical basis for care
of families, aggregates, and communities outside institutional settings.
Role of community health nurses in caring for speciﬁc aggregates is
described. Clinical experiences are provided for application of concepts
and implementation of nursing interventions in a variety of community
settings.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  CMAN380/CMAN380A/CMAN375   
 School of Social Work
SOWK 330   Internship I and Simulated Experience   (3.5 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Undergraduate Social Work majors; Senior standing; A
grade of "C" or higher in the following courses: SOWK 200, SOWK 370,
SOWK 305, (SOWK 201 or SOWK 307), and SOWK 350; Corequisite:
SOWK 362   
The goal of the ﬁeld education program is to provide an integrative
experience that brings classroom theory to the ﬁeld of practice. The ﬁeld
education program will challenge the student to integrate professional
values and personal perspectives.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Human Services   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
1) Understand the professional purpose, values, and ethical implications
of social work practice, 2) develop knowledge of the multiple frames of
reference that reflect the organization and diversity of the profession
SOWK 340   Internship II and Simulated Experience   (3.5 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Undergraduate Social Work majors; Senior standing; A
grade of "C" or higher in the following courses: SOWK 200, (SOWK 201 or
307), SOWK 370, SOWK 305, and SOWK 350   
Co-requisites:  SOWK 330 and SOWK 362   
The goal of the ﬁeld education program is to provide an integrative
experience that brings classroom theory to the ﬁeld of practice. The ﬁeld
education program will challenge the student to integrate professional
values and personal perspectives.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
1) Understand the professional purpose, values, and ethical implications
of social work practice, 2) develop knowledge of the multiple frames of
reference that reflect the organization and diversity of the professionFieldwork
For a course to be designated as “Fieldwork”, satisfying the University
Engaged Learning requirement, it must meet all the following criteria.
Criteria for ﬁeld work courses are based on research and best practices in
experiential learning:
1.The ﬁeld work (clinical placement, practicum) must be approved by the
faculty instructor, as it is the extension of the classroom and applying
knowledge gained in the classroom.
2.The academic course in which students engage in the ﬁeld work clearly
states the hours requirement (minimum of 100 hours of work).
3.The ﬁeld work experience is with a professional organization related
to their ﬁeld of study, educational goals and/or career and vocational
aspirations.
4.The learning objectives related to the ﬁeld work experience are clearly
articulated related to their ﬁeld of study, educational goals and/or career
and vocational aspirations.
5.There is supervision and feedback by a professional with expertise
related to their ﬁeld of study, educational goals and/or career and
vocational aspirations.
6.The syllabus assignments include reflection assignments and a ﬁnal
synthesis project integrated into the course.
All courses that have been approved to satisfy the Engaged Learning
University Requirement are designated with an "E" appended to their
section number, e.g. ANTH 301 01E . Comprehensive listings of all
approved Engaged Learning classes offered each semester can be found
in LOCUS  (http://www.luc.edu/locus/ ).
College of Arts and Sciences
ANTH 399   Fieldwork in Anthropology   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Permission of chairperson and faculty member   
Application of anthropological concepts and methods to a speciﬁc ﬁeld
situation under the supervision of a faculty member.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will learn ﬁeld techniques and data recovery and analysis
techniques pertinent to the speciﬁc nature of their ﬁeld experience
ARTS 397   Fieldwork in Arts Education   (3 Credit Hours)   
Credit given for arts education work outside the university undertaken
under the guidance professional arts educators. Students keep an hour
and activity log and write reflective evaluative papers. Permission of the
Department of Fine and Performing Arts Speciﬁc outcomes and credit
hours assigned to be determined by the student in consultation with the
Teaching Artistry Faculty Coordinator and the project supervisor
DANC 397   Fieldwork in Chicago - Dance   (1-12 Credit Hours)   
Variable credit (1-6 hours) given for performances or projects undertaken
with professional dance organizations outside the university. Students
keep a journal and write evaluative papers. Permission of the Department
of Fine and Performing Arts Required. Repeatable for up to 6 credit hours,
however no more than 6 credit hours of Internship or Fieldwork can be
applied to the major.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Speciﬁc outcomes and credit hours assigned to be determined by
the student in consultation with the Director of Dance and the project
supervisor

--- Page 1394 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1425
ENGR 391   Biomedical Engineering Capstone Design II   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Restricted to Engineering majors; ENGR 381 during the
same academic year, ENGR 342, concurrent enrollment in ENGR 343   
Second semester of a major design experience based on knowledge
and skills acquired in earlier course work and incorporating appropriate
engineering standards and multiple realistic constraints. Each group
continues work on the industry-sponsored medical device projects
assigned in ENGR 381. Medical device product development or regulation
topics are also introduced.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
ABET Student Outcome (2): An ability to apply engineering design
to produce medical device solutions that meet speciﬁed needs with
consideration for public health, safety, welfare, and other factors
ENGR 392   Computer Engineering Capstone Design II   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Restricted to Engineering majors; ENGR 382 during the
same academic year, ENGR 352, concurrent enrollment in ENGR 353   
Second semester of a major design experience based on knowledge
and skills acquired in earlier course work and incorporating appropriate
engineering standards and multiple realistic constraints. Each group
continues work on the industry-sponsored design projects assigned in
ENGR 382. Computer engineering or professional development topics are
also introduced.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
ABET Student Outcome (2): An ability to apply engineering design to
produce computer engineering solutions that meet speciﬁed needs with
consideration for public health, safety, welfare, and other factors
ENGR 393   Environmental Engineering Capstone Design II   (4 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  ENGR 383 (minimum C-)   
Second semester of a major design experience based on knowledge
and skills acquired in earlier course work and incorporating appropriate
engineering standards and multiple realistic constraints. Each group
continues work on the industry-sponsored design projects assigned
in ENGR 383. Environmental engineering or professional development
topics are also introduced. ENGR majors only.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
ABET Student Outcome (2): An ability to apply engineering design to
produce environmental engineering solutions that meet speciﬁed needs
with consideration for public health, safety, welfare, and other factorsGNUR 384   Clinical Role Transition   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Must have taken and passed MCN 273, MCN 374,
CMAN 272, CMAN 380, GNUR 360,with a C- or better; Must have taken
and passed MCN 273L, MCN 374L, CMAN 272L, and CMAN 380L with a P;
Must also enroll in GNUR 383   
Through preceptor-based learning and seminars, this experience focuses
on assimilating the role behaviors of a professional nurse as a provider,
designer, manager, and coordinator of care in health care systems, and a
member of a profession. Clinical reasoning, critical thinking, prioritization,
and the integration of knowledge are emphasized in this experience,
focusing on the provision of patient-centered, evidence-based care as a
member of an interprofessional health care team.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Upon successful completion of this course, the student is able to: 1)
Incorporate standards of practice into the development, implementation,
and evaluation of evidence-based, patient-centered care; 2) Apply
principles of quality and safety in patient care settings; 3) Apply
knowledge of prioritization and delegation in the management of  care; 4)
Collaborate with patients, families, and members of the interprofessional
health care team in the design, delivery, and evaluation of evidence-based,
patient-centered care; 5) Exemplify role behaviors consistent with a
member of a profession; 6) Incorporate ethical, legal, regulatory, ﬁnancial,
and economic considerations into the design, delivery, management, and
evaluation of care
MLSC 302   Applied Leadership in Small Unit Operations   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Restricted to ROTC students; MLSC 301 or departmental
consent is required   
MLSC 302 consists of both lecture and lab sections; focuses on
applied leadership in small unit operations; analyze, test, and relate the
fundamentals of direct level leadership and small unit tactics at the
platoon level.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Student who possesses enhanced individual and collective skills,
effectively leads formations in various scenarios, effective at receiving
and giving peer evaluations, committed and disciplined ethically,
academically, physically, and socially; Successful completion of this
course will help prepare contracted Army ROTC students for the Cadet
Summer Training Advance Camp, which students normally attend
summer of junior year at Fort Knox, KY
MUSC 397   Fieldwork in Chicago - Music   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
Variable credit (1-6 hours) given for performances or projects undertaken
with professional music organizations outside the university. Students
keep a journal and write evaluative papers. Permission of the Department
of Fine and Performing Arts Required. Repeatable for up to 6 credit hours,
however no more than 6 credit hours can be applied towards the major.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Speciﬁc outcomes and credit hours to be assigned to be determined by
the student in consultation with the Director of Music and the project
supervisor

--- Page 1395 ---
1426  Fieldwork
THTR 397   Fieldwork in Chicago - Theatre   (1-6 Credit Hours)   
Variable credit (1-6 hours) given for performances or projects undertaken
with professional theatre organizations outside the university. Students
keep a journal and write evaluative papers. Permission of the Department
of Fine and Performing Arts Required. Repeatable for up to 6 credit hours,
however no more than 6 credit hours of Internship or Fieldwork can be
applied towards the major.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Speciﬁc outcomes and credit hours assigned to be determined by the
student in consultation with the Director of Theatre and the project
supervisor
WSGS 388   Women's Studies Practicum   (3 Credit Hours)   
This supervised ﬁeld experience uses experiential learning at a wide
variety uses experiential learning at a variety of women's political, cultural
or educational organization as the basis for learning and reﬁning skills
which cab beneﬁt gender equity.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Women & Gender Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  WOST388/WSGS388   
Outcomes:
Students demonstrate skill proﬁciency, professional conduct, and
systematic reflection on their experience; Students learn about public and
private sector responses to women's issues and concerns
School of Business
See Academic Internships ( QUIN 351 Business Internship-Engaged
Learning  )
ISSCM 393   Requirements Analysis and Communication   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Junior Standing, minimum grade of "C-" or better in ISSCM
247  
This course focuses on Information Systems requirements and related
communication skills. Students will learn how to gather requirements
for Information Systems from an organization's users and executives
based on a general understanding of organizations and business goals.
Students learn techniques of how to translate between organizational
needs and requirements for systems and processes, and how to analyze,
validate, and prioritize those requirements. A special focus of the course
will be to improve business communication skills such as interviewing,
listening, presenting and negotiating.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  ISOM393 / MGSC393   
School of Communication
COMM 315   Advanced Reporting Topics   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 205, 362 , and Junior Standing and above   
This course offers in-depth attention to the challenges of writing complex
stories characterized by careful research, use of sources, interviewing,
and reporting and writing. Students examine writing for a "lay" audience
in such areas as science and technology, ﬁnance, government, and
religion. Can be repeated once with a different topic. Second completion
can count as major elective in MJRN.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will broaden their writing and research experienceCOMM 345   Student Agency   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 175 and Instructor Consent   
COMM 210 or 211 strongly recommended. Open to undergraduate
students only. A 3.0 GPA is required. Course involves actual client work in
Inigo, the student-run communications agency. Students gain skills/put
theory into action as they provide public relations, digital communication,
strategy and other services to companies and non-proﬁts. Students apply
prior semester. Contact instructor at cmcphil@luc.edu for details. All
majors encouraged.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
A fundamental understanding of what agencies are and how they
function; A heightened sense of professionalism; Advanced-level
teamwork; Increased written and verbal communication skills
COMM 381   Communication Practicum   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Department Consent   
Students gain advanced practical experience in service experiential
learning projects. Student must develop a project with a full-
time faculty member in COMM Studies. Paperwork is required:
https://www.luc.edu/media/lucedu/soc/pdfs/resourceforms/
ONLINEDirectedStudyPracticumForm.pdf.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
COMM 382   Multimedia Journalism Practicum   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Students gain hands-on practical experience in developing multimedia
journalism projects. Student must develop a project with a full-time
faculty member in Multimedia Journalism. Paperwork is required:
https://www.luc.edu/media/lucedu/soc/pdfs/resourceforms/
ONLINEDirectedStudyPracticumForm.pdf. Pre-requisites: Department
Consent.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
COMM 383   Radio Practicum   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students will work with WLUW radio station under the supervision of a
faculty member participating in one or several of the following activities:
generating story ideas, booking guests, interviewing guests, doing
promotions using social networking and on-air productions, recording,
editing and producing audio segments, learning several facets of what it
takes to produce a radio show.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
COMM 384   Film & Digital Media Practicum   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Requires Instructor Consent for all majors; DMST may also
enroll with instructor consent   
Students will gain advanced practical experience creating digital cinema
projects. They may choose to focus on a certain role and section--
director/producer, writer, cinematographer, editor, production designer,
sound designer, publicist.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  ICVM384/IFMS384/COMM384   
Outcomes:
Students will gain advanced practical experience producing and
collaborating on digital cinema projects

--- Page 1396 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1427
School of Education
CIEP M03   Student Teaching: Infants, Toddlers and PreSchoolers   (6
Credit Hours)   
This course (along with the related ﬁeld experiences) serves as a
continuation of the Methods courses and meets the requirements of a
preprimary student teaching experience.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Teacher candidates will be provided with supervised applied experience
in assessment and instruction with children in early childhood special
education and will be prepared to work in an early childhood special
education setting
CIEP M04   K-3 Student Teaching   (9 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  CIEP M03   
This course is the culminating experience of the Early Childhood Special
Education Teacher Education Program. Candidates are placed in a
classroom with an experienced cooperating teacher.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
In addition to their planning and teaching responsibilities, student
teachers also are expected to reflect on their experience, develop their
planning and instructional skills, and compile a teaching portfolio
CIEP MU1   Student Teaching: Special Education   (9 Credit Hours)   
No course description is available
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
CIEP MU5   Student Teaching: Elementary School   (9 Credit Hours)   
This capstone course engages the student in the actual activity of
teaching in the elementary school all day, every day, during the semester.
Those engaged in student teaching are closely monitored by an
experienced cooperating teacher at the school site and supervised by
university faculty who have had extensive classroom experience.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Student teaching gives the prospective teacher the opportunity to meld
theory with practice in the actual activity of teaching
CIEP MU6   Student Teaching: Secondary School   (9 Credit Hours)   
This capstone course engages the student in the actual activity of
teaching in the secondary school all day, every day, during the semester.
Those engaged in student teaching are closely monitored by an
experienced cooperating teacher at the school site and supervised by
university faculty who have had extensive classroom experience.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Student teaching gives the prospective teacher the opportunity to meld
theory with practice in the actual activity of teaching
CIEP M60   Secondary Methods: Social Studies   (3 Credit Hours)   
In this course students examine teaching and learning in the social
studies in grades 9-12. Students explore a variety of methods for
teaching each discipline within the social studies as distinct subjects
and as elements of interdisciplinary courses. The course emphasizes
curriculum planning, practice teaching in the social studies and ﬁeldwork
in schools and social studies-related organizations.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will design curricula and demonstrate instructional strategies
in the social studies that meet the needs of diverse learners and focus on
deep engagements with social studies contentCIEP M64   Secondary Methods: Science   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course is designed to help pre-service teachers develop the
theoretical background, practical knowledge, and skills essential for
successful science teaching at the high school level.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will be able to draw Teaching Science in the Elementary/Middle
School connections among instructional planning, implementation, and
assessment of student learning through a ﬁeld experience as well as the
practice of instructional skills in peer teaching lessons

--- Page 1397 ---
1428  Fieldwork
TLSC 380   Tching, Lrning & Leading with Schools & Communities
Internship: Stud Tching   (6-12 Credit Hours)   
This module (course) represents the candidates' full-time student
teaching experience. Candidates will complete three of the edTPA
tasks required for certiﬁcation (edTPA: Designing Instruction Task;
edTPA: Assessing Learning Task; and edTPA: The Culminating Teaching
Experience Task) in order to document and demonstrate each candidate's
ability to effectively teach his/her subject matter. Candidates will also
engage in focused reflection on student teaching and their entire teacher
preparation program. Candidates will complete the School of Education's
Professional Practice Proﬁle (PPP) essay at the end of the module. (1C,
4L, 4N, 4Q, 5M, 5N, 5J, 8I, 8O, 8S, 9K, 9N) (IB) EU9 S7, S8; Demonstrate
understanding and proﬁciency in core concepts, constructs and working
principles from theories and research when making decisions and taking
actions related to speciﬁc TLLSC EUs and EU indicators. (1C, 2A, 2B, 2C,
2I, 2J, 2G, 3A, 3Q, 4A, 4L, 5A, 5B, 5E, 5F , 5S, 6B, 6C, 7A, 7B, 7C, 7F , 9L) (IB)
EU10 K1, K2, K3, K4, S1, S2; Demonstrate the ability to recognize and
value student diversity and the differences in how students learn and
provide instruction to accommodate such diversity. (1K, 2K, 5M, 7M, 8J)
(IB) EU11 S2, S3, S4, S6; Support and deliver instruction in cooperation
with their assigned co-teacher. (1H, 1I, 1L, 3I, 3J, 3M, 3P , 4C, 4K, 4N, 5I,
7P , 9J)(IB) EU1 S7, EU2 S8, EU4 S7; Provide a written analysis of each
observed lesson, with a focus on their ability to make content accessible,
the level of student engagement, the use of developmentally appropriate
teaching practices, and the teaching of English language learners and
students with special needs. (1H, 3J, 5H, 5K, 5M, 5P ,7Q)(IB) EU3 S10,
S11, S16, S18 EU4 S5; Reflect in writing and discussion on their ability
to deliver and adapt relevant instruction and assessments, classroom
management and professional interaction with teachers, students and
families. (5H, 5J, 9K) (IB) EU6 S12 EU2 S9; Conduct regular pre- and post-
observation conferences with Internship Coaches and Co-teachers to
evaluate personal instructional style, preparation, use of technology,
collaboration to promote learning and professional interactions to
determine their impact on barriers to student learning, student success,
self-esteem and inclusion (4K, 4N, 5K, 5M, 5N, 8I, 8J,8O, 8R,8S, 9G, 9K, 9N)
(IB) EU9 S6, S8.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Utilize research and evidence-based practices to design instruction
that includes the alignment of goals, objectives, assessments and
instructional strategies to meet the individual needs of students EU3;
Create and support safe and healthy learning environments for all
students EU9; Utilize information from theories and related research
based practices when making decisions and taking action in their
professional practice EU10; Maintain and utilize global perspectives
and international-mindedness when engaging in teaching, learning
and leading, including the awareness and application of the social,
cultural, inter-cultural and linguistic facets of student achievement
EU11; Enact principles of social justice in the school and community
by focusing on the intellectual, social and emotional development of all
students, promoting human rights, reducing inequalities, and increasing
the empowerment of society's most vulnerable groups EU1; Hold high
expectations and build on the assets of diverse students (including, but
not limited to race, ethnicity, culture, language, SES, immigration status,
exceptionality, ability, sexual orientation, gender, and gender identity)
EU7; Engage in collaborative relationships with fellow teachers, school
personnel, administrators, students, families and communities and
promote collaboration among students to ensure the academic success,
and social and emotional well-being of all students EU2; Design and
implement standards-based units and lesson plans to maximize learning
for all students by using an appropriate variety of assessments, culturally
responsive practices, multiple resources/representations and questioning
to encourage critical/high-order thinking inquiry and problem solving
based on high expectations for each student's learning and behavior
(3H, 3I, 3N, 3Q, 5I, 5L, 5M, 5Q, 5S, 7K, 7P , 8N, 9A) (IB) EU3 S2, S3, S5, S6,
S9; Use data to evaluate and monitor students' needs, instruction and
collaboration for impact on teaching and learningSchool of Nursing
CMAN 272   Mental Health Patterns   (3 Credit Hours)   
Co-requisites:  CMAN 272L   
This course is designed to prepare students in assisting persons
(individuals, families, communities) to achieve and maintain optimal
mental health.
Outcomes:
The student will be able to use critical thinking to apply know ledge from
nursing and other disciplines in the care of persons with mental health
disorders
CMAN 272L   Mental Health Patterns: Lab   (3 Credit Hours)   
Co-requisites:  Must also enroll in CMAN 272   
This course is designed to prepare students in assisting persons
(individuals, families, communities) to achieve and maintain optimal
mental health.
Outcomes:
The student will be able to use critical thinking to apply know ledge from
nursing and other disciplines in the care of persons with mental health
disorders
CMAN 380L   Community Health: Lab   (3 Credit Hours)   
Must also enroll in CMAN 380.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  CMAN375L/CMAN380C/CMAN380L   
MCN 273   Family Health Patterns I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Must have taken and passed MSN 277, GNUR 294 with a
C- or better; Must have taken and passed MSN 277L with a P; Must also
enroll in MCN 273L   
This course allows students to apply concepts from systems theory
and the levels of prevention models to structure the presentation of
selected concepts related to health promotion and health maintenance of
childbearing and parenting families.
Outcomes:
The student will be able to use critical thinking to apply know ledge from
nursing and other disciplines in the care of childbearing and parenting
families
MCN 273L   Family Health Patterns I: Lab   (3 Credit Hours)   
Co-requisites:  Must enroll on MCN 273   
No course description is available
MCN 374L   Family Health Patterns II: Lab   (3 Credit Hours)   
Co-requisites:  Must also enroll in MCN 374   
No course description is available
MSN 277   Medical/Surgical Nursing: Adult Health I   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Must have taken and passed PSYC 273 or PSYC 274 and
GNUR 294 with a C- or better OR Must have taken and passed PSYC 273
or PSYC 274 with a C- or better and be enrolled in GNUR 294   
This course is designed to use levels of prevention to provide nursing
care for adults with selected health issues. Emphasis is placed on health
promotion, early detection and treatment and restoration of health for
individuals, families and communities across the health care continuum.
MSN 277L   Medical/Surgical Nursing: Adult Health Lab I   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Must also enroll in MSN 277. This course is designed to apply levels
of prevention in nursing care for adults with selected health issues.
Emphasis is placed on health promotion, early detection and treatment
and restoration of health for individuals, families, and communities
across the health care continuum.

--- Page 1398 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1429
MSN 377   Adult Health II - Advanced Medical-Surgical   (4 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Must have taken and passed MSN 277, MSN 277L,
GNUR 290, GNUR 294, GNUR 360,with a C- or better; Must also enroll in
MSN 377L   
This course builds on MSN 277, Adult Health I, and focuses on the
nursing care of adults experiencing selected critical health issues.
Physical, psychosocial, cultural, spiritual assessments and health data
are incorporated into the identiﬁcation of interventions within the context
of life-threatening conditions. Students incorporate evidence-based
practice guidelines and interdisciplinary collaboration to maximize health
outcomes.
Outcomes:
Nursing care of adults experiencing selected critical health issues
MSN 377L   Adult Health II - Advanced Medical Surgical Clinical   (3 Credit
Hours)   
Must also enroll in MSN 377. This course builds on MSN 277L, Adult
Health I Clinical, and focuses on the nursing care of adults experiencing
selected critical health issues. Physical, psychosocial, cultural, spiritual
assessments and health data are obtained and interventions are provided
within the context of life-threatening conditions. Students incorporate
evidence-based practice guidelines and interdisciplinary collaboration to
maximize health outcomes.
Outcomes:
Nursing care of adults experiencing selected critical health issues -
clinical
School of Social Work
See internships ( SOWK 330 Internship I and Simulated Experience  and
SOWK 340 Internship II and Simulated Experience )
Public Performance
For a course to be designated as “Public Performance“, satisfying the
University Engaged Learning requirement, it must meet all the following
criteria. Criteria for public performance courses are based on research
and best practices in experiential learning:
•The experience (e.g. musical performance, dramatic performance, art
exhibit) is the culmination of a student’s work presented publicly in a
program or performance, as it is the extension of the classroom and
applying knowledge gained in the classroom.
•The academic experience in which students engage in the performance
work clearly states the hours requirement.
•The learning objectives related to the performance experience are clearly
articulated related to their ﬁeld of study, educational goals and/or career
and vocational aspirations.
•There is supervision and feedback by a professional with expertise
related to their ﬁeld of study, educational goals and/or career and
vocational aspirations.
•The syllabus assignments include reflection assignments and a ﬁnal
synthesis project integrated into the course.
All courses approved to satisfy the Engaged Learning University
Requirement are designated with an "E" appended to their section
number, e.g. ANTH 301 01E. Comprehensive listings of all approved
Engaged Learning classes offered each semester can be found in  LOCUS
(http://www.luc.edu/locus/ ).College of Arts and Sciences
DANC 212   Ballet Dance II: Theory and Technique   (2 Credit Hours)   
Prerequisite Skills: Students should be familiar with the ﬁve feet and
arm positions and be able to work in 5th position of the feet. Dancers
should demonstrate correct alignment of the pelvis and spine in plie
and releve and while working at the barre. Dancer must be able to
execute correct articulation of the feet and leg in tendu. They should be
familiar with basic petite allegro and action of the feet, hips and legs
while jumping. This is a continuing ballet class designed to build on
established vocabulary and movement fundamentals with emphasis on
ballet as a theatrical art form.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  THTR212/DANC212   
Outcomes:
This class further develops strength, posture, flexibility and coordination;
Progressions include more work en relev at the barre, development
of leg extensions, single leg jumping and more complex movement
combinations; Students will develop awareness of a dancer's role in a
ballet production
DANC 213   Ballet III: Advanced Continuing Ballet   (2 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisite skills: Student must demonstrate correct alignment and
articulation at the barre and in the center when standing in ﬁrst or ﬁfth
position. Student should have introductory proﬁciency in pirouettes
en dehors and en dedans as well as petit allegro. This course serves
students who have achieved proﬁciency in the basic elements of
Continuing Ballet, but need to develop skills to meet the Intermediate
level. Course focuses on reinforcing foundational technique in alignment
and articulation and provides opportunities to develop strength,
coordination and vocabulary required to advance to 311 Intermediate
Ballet.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will increase their awareness of overall dance alignment and
articulation; They will develop strength, coordination and vocabulary
preparing them for Intermediate Ballet; Students will enhance their ability
to travel across the floor as well as conduct pirouettes; Adagio work in
the center and grand allegro is introduced
DANC 222   Modern Dance II: Theory and Technique   (2 Credit Hours)   
Prerequisite Skills: Dancers should be able to maintain correct alignment
of the legs, back and pelvis standing and shifting their weight. Must be
familiar with 1st and 2nd position of the legs and demonstrate basic
articulation of the legs in tendu and jumping. This course is designed
to further increase student's body awareness, strength, flexibility and
musicality. We will study the technique and theory of Fall and Recovery
developed by Doris Humphrey as well as learn short excerpts of repertory
to be analyzed. May be repeated once for credit.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  THTR222/DANC222   
Outcomes:
Students will further develop their modern dance technique and be
able to execute more physically challenging falls and longer and more
complex movement combinations

--- Page 1399 ---
1430  Public Performance
DANC 232   Jazz Dance II: Theories and Techniques   (2 Credit Hours)   
Prerequisite Skills: Dancers should demonstrate correct placement of
the legs, back and pelvis standing and in plié. They should be able to
demonstrate basic jazz turns, jazz runs and pas de bourée. Dancers
need to use correct position and opposition of the arms in combinations.
Jazz II is designed to further develop student's technical ability and
awareness of Jazz dance in theatrical productions. Students will learn
about professional Jazz dance in Chicago and improve their strength,
coordination, flexibility and correct posture in increasingly complex
combinations applying the vocabulary and principles of jazz dance. May
be repeated once for credit.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  THTR232/DANC232   
Outcomes:
Students will improve their dance technique, performance skills and
appreciation of Chicago's rich tradition of Jazz dance performance
DANC 314   Pointe II: Continuing Pointework   (1 Credit Hour)   
This is a studio class that explores ballet technique en pointe. This
course is to be taken concurrently with DANC 313 Ballet V Advanced
Ballet or 343 Advanced Majors Ballet. Students must be enrolled in
Advanced Ballet to be eligible for enrollment in Pointe II. This course
explores continuing ballet technique en pointe. It requires students
to apply and synthesize all aspects of pointework studies including
technique, spatial awareness, dynamics and group forms by preparing
and presenting a public performance. It must be taken concurrently with
DANC 313 Ballet V or 343 Advanced Majors Ballet. May be taken 8 times
for credit.
Outcomes:
Students gain a deeper understanding of pointe technique, as well
as demonstrate speciﬁc advanced skills required of the dance form;
Students apply and synthesize material in a public performance
DANC 323   Rehearsal and Performance   (1 Credit Hour)   
Pre-requisites:  Permission of the department   
Dancing, choreographing, or stage managing, in a campus production.
Completion of a journal or paper is required. May be repeated up to 12
times.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will gain performance experience, assess personal artistic
growth, and reflect on application of performance theory and technique
into production practice
DANC 331   Jazz Dance III: Intermediate Jazz Dance Theories and
Techniques   (2 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Permission of the Instructor   
This course develops students' ability to execute Jazz dance technique at
an intermediate level. Students improve their dance technique, dynamic,
spatial and performance skills. Students apply and synthesize all aspects
of jazz dance technique in public performance. This course may be taken
six times for credit.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students improve core strength, coordination, flexibility and correct
posture at the intermediate level, in increasingly complex combinations
applying and synthesizing all concepts and technique in public
performanceDANC 370   Dance Composition   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Must be a Dance Major or Dance Minor to enroll; Placement
in Level III or higher dance technique courses; Permission of the
department required   
This course takes students from an introduction to dance composition
theory and techniques through the process of creating a group work for
the stage. Course work includes lecture, discussion, selected readings,
viewing of masterworks of dance composition, creation of several dance
studies on various themes and culminates in the creation of a work for
performance in the Student Choreographic Showcase.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Through the development of short dance students learn the principles of
dance composition and then apply them to their own creation performed
for a public audience
FNAR 398   Fine Arts Capstone   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Completion of the most advanced course in the student's
FNAR concentration   
The course serves as the culmination of each student's experience as a
Fine Art major. Students will demonstrate the ability to produce work that
exempliﬁed the application and synthesis of the knowledge gained from
the courses and experiences.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate the ability to produce art work suitable for
exhibit
MUSC 104   Gospel Choir   (1 Credit Hour)   
Admission through audition. A mixed ensemble of singers performing
primarily Gospel music (Spirituals, Blues, etc). Admission through
audition. The choir participates in at least one public performance each
semester. May be repeated to a limit of eight hours.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  X-MUSC104/BWS 104   
Outcomes:
Students gain proper vocal/choral technique and knowledge of the
musical literature offered each semester through rehearsal and
performance; They reflect on their personal and collective artistic growth
through the process
MUSC 106   Guitar Ensemble   (1 Credit Hour)   
Admission through audition. For advanced guitarists. The study,
rehearsal and performance of transcriptions and original works for guitar
ensemble. Repertoire from the Renaissance through the present will be
performed. Students must provide their own instruments. Gives at least
one concert each semester.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students gain proper guitar technique and knowledge of the musical
literature offered each semester through rehearsal and performance;
Students reflect on their personal and collective artistic growth
throughout the process

--- Page 1400 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1431
MUSC 107   Chorus   (1 Credit Hour)   
University Chorus is a topics course in ensemble singing devoted to
the study, rehearsal and performance of standard choral literature of all
periods. Admission through audition. Gives at least two performances
each semester. Some sections require audition for admission.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students improve their vocal/choral technique and knowledge of the
musical literature through rehearsal and performance; They reflect on
their personal and collective artistic growth throughout the performance
process
MUSC 108   Liturgical Choir: Cantorum   (1 Credit Hour)   
Admission through audition. An SATB ensemble providing music for the
Sunday liturgies in Madonna della Strada Chapel and other university
liturgical and choral functions and concerts. Repertoire includes both
traditional and contemporary sacred music. Admission through audition.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students gain proper vocal/choral technique and knowledge of the
musical literature offered each semester through rehearsal and
performance; Students reflect on their personal and collective artistic
throughout the performance process
MUSC 109   Jazz Ensemble   (1 Credit Hour)   
Admission through audition. Rehearsal and performance of standard
Jazz and Big Band music. Members must have previous Jazz Band
experience. Performs publicly at least twice each semester of the
academic year.
Interdisciplinary Option:  African Studies and the African Diaspora   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  X-MUSC109/BWS 109   
Outcomes:
Students improve instrumental technique and gain knowledge of the
musical literature offered through rehearsal and performance; Students
reflect on their personal and collective artistic growth throughout the
performance process
MUSC 207   Chamber Choir   (1 Credit Hour)   
Audition Required. An ensemble of advanced singers performing works
written especially for the smaller choir. Performance of music from all
historical periods suitable for this type of choir. The choir participates
in at least two public performances each semester. Admission through
audition. May be repeated for up to eight credit hours.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students gain knowledge of the musical literature offered through
rehearsal and performance, while integrating proper vocal/choral
technique; Students reflect on their personal and collective artistic
growth throughout the performance process
MUSC 246   Composition I   (3 Credit Hours)   
Course deals with the study of music theory and simple and binary forms.
In addition to that, students compose an original piece of music for two
instruments that receives public performance.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Through the study of relevant music scores, students learn the principles
of composition and instrumentation to then apply them to their own
compositionsMUSC 320   Rehearsal and Performance   (1 Credit Hour)   
This course allows students to receive credit for performing in an on-
campus production during the semester. Completion and submission of a
journal or paper is required. Permission of department is required.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
MUSC 374   Musical Theatre Repertoire   (4 Credit Hours)   
This capstone repertoire course synthesizes musical theatre history,
theory and performance. It is designed to develop students' ability to
perform vocally, dramatically and physically within the canon of musical
theatre repertoire. It culminates in a musical theatre showcase which
features student performance of the repertoire learned in class.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the history of musical
theatre performance by comparing the work of signiﬁcant composers,
directors and choreographers and demonstrate understanding of the
intrinsic requirements for effective synthesis of vocal, dramatic and
dance performance
MUSC 388   Lecture/Recital: MUSC Capstone   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  Music Major only   
A directed studies capstone experience course. Project proposal must
be approved by the course advisor by the end of the ﬁrst week of the
semester. A Public presentation of the project is required. Examples of
appropriate capstone projects include, a performance of a composition,
paper presentation, digital music design for a commercial product,
conduct a chamber ensemble or the creation of a music installation.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Synthesize previous course work into a public presentation in the
students' area of interest
PLSC 202   Mock Trial   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students will study the trial as a process for ﬁnding truth and
administering justice by learning the dynamics of the trial, by developing
trial strategy, by learning how to conduct and respond to direct and cross
examination and by delivering effective opening and closing arguments.
Mock trial is an engaged learning course. Prior Permission is required.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Mock trials are an activity that promotes critical thinking and reasoning;
They call upon students to employ their problem-solving and public-
speaking skills, and students gain knowledge of legal practices and
procedures
PLSC 203   Moot Court   (3 Credit Hours)   
Students will study the appeal as a process for ﬁnding truth and
administering justice by learning the dynamics of appellate advocacy,
by developing oral argument strategies, by learning how to respond to
questions posed by judges in competition, and by delivering effective
summations and rebuttal arguments. Moot court is an engaged learning
course.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Moot court competitions are an activity that promotes critical thinking
and reasoning; They will enhance their ability-to-think- on-their-feet skills,
their legal research skills, and their public-speaking skills; Students gain
knowledge of legal argumentation and constitutional law

--- Page 1401 ---
1432  Service-Learning
THTR 204   Playwriting   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  THTR 100 or THTR 203   
This course is and introduction to the theories and techniques of
playwriting with particular emphasis on the analysis of dramatic
structure.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the theories and
techniques of playwriting and dramatic structure through application of
these skills in several playwriting exercises and the development of a one
act play
THTR 305   Theatre Workshop: Special Topics   (3 Credit Hours)   
This course introduces the student to a style, genre or method theatre
making through active application in exercises, demonstrations, games
and workshops.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will develop skills in applying performance theory to practice;
develop performance skills in a particular style or genre; expand a
repertoire of rehearsal techniques; and develop skills to create original
theatre pieces
THTR 323   Rehearsal & Performance   (1-12 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  permission of the instructor   
This course allows students to receive credit for stage managing, acting
in or directing a campus production during the semester. Completion and
submission of a journal or paper is required. Course may be repeated up
to 12 times for a total of no more than 12 credit hours.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will gain performance experience, assess personal artistic
growth, and reflect on application of performance theory and technique
covered in coursework to production practice
THTR 324   Applied Design and Management   (1-3 Credit Hours)   
This independent study course supports student scene, costume,
lighting, make-up, sound or property designers and stage managers
selected by the faculty to design or manage for university productions.
Department Permission Required.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Outcomes:
Students will deepen their understanding of a design process via ﬁrst
hand experience in our theatre
 School of Communication
COMM 335   AI in Advertising   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 211 Outcomes: Students will learn the fundamental
of logics of AI technologies, and its implicaitons in various aspects of
advertising   
This course explore what is AI, how it¿s been applied in various stages
and aspects of advertising, and be creative in using artiﬁcial intelligent
technologies to create better advertisement and consumer experiences.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  X - COMM 335 / COMM 445   COMM 339   Video Documentary   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 135 or COMM 145   
This course offers hands on production of video documentaries through
the study of electronic ﬁeld production technology, the analysis of
documentary texts, and the application of documentary research
methods.
Interdisciplinary Option:  Film & Digital Media Studies, International Film &
Media Studies   
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  X-COMM339/439/ICVM339/IFMS339   
Outcomes:
Students will gains hands-on video production experience in a non-
narrative genre
COMM 373   Digital Storytelling Abroad   (3 Credit Hours)   
Pre-requisites:  COMM 135 or 145   
Participants will learn and execute multimedia storytelling in an
international setting. This course will help students enhance their video,
writing, interviewing, photography and editing skills within another
country and cultural context.
This course satisﬁes the Engaged Learning requirement.   
Course equivalencies:  COMM 373/COMM 473   
Outcomes:
The course will require students to enterprise and execute a range of
multimedia skills that help participants tell stories; The course will have
an emphasis on community engagement and social justice; The course
will give students an opportunity to apply technical knowledge and skills
to a uniquely-designed study abroad experience
Service-Learning
For a course to be designated as “Service-Learning”, satisfying the
University Engaged Learning requirement, it must meet all the following
criteria.  Criteria for service-learning courses are based on research and
best practices, the CAS Standards for Service-Learning (2009), and the
Principles of Good Practice for Service-Learning Pedagogy (Howard,
1993).
1.The academic course establishes the service expectation of 20+ hours
of service to work in the community or in the environment, or on a
community-based project connected to the content of the course.
2.Learning objectives related to the service experiences are clearly
articulated.
3.There is a clear articulation of the community partnership or project and
how it addresses community-deﬁned priorities.
4.The syllabus assignments and ﬁnal projects synthesize classroom- and
community-based learning.
5.Activities and assignments encourage students to reflect on larger
community issues, sustainability issues, social structures, and/or topics
of social justice (e.g. perpetuating dependence vs. building capacity
within the community).
The Center for Engaged Learning, Teaching, & Scholarship publishes
a listing of ALL approved service-learning classes each semester.
  This list can be found on the  Service-Learning Program website
(https://www.luc.edu/celts/programs/service-learning/forstudents/
courses.shtml/ ).
All courses that have been approved to satisfy the Engaged Learning
University Requirement are designated with an "E" appended to their
section number, e.g. ANTH 301 01E. Comprehensive listings of all

--- Page 1402 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1433
approved Engaged Learning classes offered each semester can be found
in LOCUS  (http://www.luc.edu/locus/ ).
College of Arts and Sciences
Code Title Hours
ANTH 104 The Human Ecological Footprint 13ANTH 216Cultures of Migration3
ARTS 200 Introduction to Teaching Artistry 3BIOL 395Special Topics in Biology 1,23
CATH 296 All Things Ignatian: Living and Learning in the
Jesuit Trad3CJC 395Special Topics 13
CLST 281 War and War Experience, Ancient and Modern 3COMP 390Broadening Participation in STEM (Computing,
Math & Science)1-3
ENGL 220 Theory and Practice of Tutoring Writing 3ENGL 293Advanced Writing 13
ENGL 393 Teaching English to Adults: Internship 1-3GERM 320German-American History: Focus on Chicago3
HMSV 201 Human Services Practice 3HMSV 390Supervised Fieldwork II6
ITAL 103 Italian III 13ITAL 250Composition & Conversation I 13
MATH 123 Topics 1-3MATH 147Mathematics For Teachers I3
MATH 170 Service Learning in Mathematics 3PHIL 262Social & Political Philosophy - Civic Engagement3
PHIL 264 Health Care Ethics - Civic Engagement 3PHIL 284Health Care Ethics 13
PHIL 287 Environmental Ethics 13PHIL 288Culture and Civilization 13
PHIL 325 Ethics & Case Based Reasoning 3PLSC 335Urban Semester Seminar3
POST 395 Polish Studies Capstone 3PSYC 237Cross-Cultural Psychology3
PSYC 390 Internship in Psychology 3ROST 382Human Rights: View from Rome3
RUSS 290 Russia and Russians in the World 3SOCL 101Society in a Global Age 13
SOCL 127 Social Analysis and Social Action 3SOCL 216The Sociology of Violence 13
SOCL 258 Confronting Homelessness: Local to Global 3SOCL 280Topics in Contemporary Sociology 13
SOCL 335 Urban Semester Seminar 3THEO 100Christian Theology 13
THEO 266 Church & Global Cultures 13THEO 280Religion & Interdisciplinary Studies 13
THEO 348 Supervised Ministry 3THTR 348Theatre Pedagogy3
URB 397 Urban Studies Research 3WSGS 201Contemporary Issues in WSGS 13
WSGS 399 WSGS Capstone 31Only speciﬁc sections satisfy the Engaged Learning requirement. 
These will include the letter E in the section number. Please see LOCUS
for details.
2Special areas of study outside the usual curriculum, that vary each time
the course is offered.
Center for Engaged Learning, Teaching, &
Scholarship/Ofﬁce of the Provost
Code Title Hours
EXPL 290 Seminar in Community-Based Service and
Leadership3EXPL 291Introduction to Research3
EXPL 292 International Service Learning 3UNIV 190Understanding Service and Social Justice3
School for Environmental Sustainability
Code Title Hours
ENVS 101 The Scientiﬁc Basis of Environmental Issues 13ENVS 267Bird Conservation and Ecology 13
ENVS 273 Energy and the Environment 13ENVS 283Environmental Sustainability 13
ENVS 284 Environmental Justice 3ENVS 340Natural History of Belize 13
ENVS 345 Conservation and Sustainability of Neotropical
Ecosystems 13ENVS 350ASolutions to Environmental Problems: Water3
ENVS 350C Solutions to Environmental Problems: Climate
Action3ENVS 350FSolutions to Environmental Problems: Food
Systems3
ENVS 363 Sustainable Business Management 13ENVS 369Field Ornithology 13
ENVS 383 Human Dimensions of Conservation 13ENVS 384Conservation Economics 13
ENVS 390 Integrative Seminar 13
1Only speciﬁc sections satisfy the Engaged Learning requirement. 
These will include the letter E in the section number. Please see LOCUS
for details.
Interdisciplinary Honors Program
Code Title Hours
HONR 290 Literacy Center 3HONR 301Honors Capstone: Moral Responsibility3
HONR 370 Fieldwork in Honors - Internship 1-3
Parkinson School of Health Science and
Public Health
Code Title Hours
EXCM 101 Introduction to Exercise Physiology 3HSM 110Healthcare in America3

--- Page 1403 ---
1434  Undergraduate Research
HSM 210 Introduction to Global Healthcare Delivery 3HSM 220Post-Acute & Long-Term Care Management3
School of Business
Code Title Hours
INFS 399 Special Topics in Information Systems 13ISSCM 241Business Statistics 13
ENTR 311 Social Entrepreneurship 3MARK 311Marketing Research 13
MARK 373 Integrated Marketing Communications 3MARK 399Special Topics in Marketing 13
MGMT 335 Micro-Enterprise Consulting 3
1Only speciﬁc sections satisfy the Engaged Learning requirement. 
These will include the letter E in the section number. Please see LOCUS
for details.
School of Communication
Code Title Hours
COMM 204 Community as Story 3COMM 215Ethics & Communication 13
COMM 281 Communication, Language & Gender 3COMM 311Health Communication 13
COMM 320 Public Service Communication 3COMM 337AD/PR Multimedia Commercial Production3
COMM 372 Special Topics: Multimedia Journalism 13
1Only speciﬁc sections satisfy the Engaged Learning requirement. 
These will include the letter E in the section number. Please see LOCUS
for details.
School of Continuing and Professional
Studies
Code Title Hours
CPST 390 Organizational Theory and Practice 13CPST 397Capstone3
HEM 100 Emergency Medical Technician - Basic 4
1Only speciﬁc sections satisfy the Engaged Learning requirement. 
These will include the letter E in the section number. Please see LOCUS
for details.
School of Education
Code Title Hours
CIEP 104 Mathematics for Teachers I 3CIEP M61Secondary Methods: English3
CIEP M62 Secondary Methods: Mathematics 3CIEP 390Field Study in Education 13
ELPS 125 Introduction to Leadership Studies 3TLSC 110The Profession and Our Program (TLLSC) 21TLSC 120 Bringing Language, Learning & Development
Theory into Practice 22TLSC 130Sequence One: 130 Community Immersion 21
1Only speciﬁc sections satisfy the Engaged Learning requirement. 
These will include the letter E in the section number. Please see LOCUS
for details.
2Must be taken together.
School of Nursing
Code Title Hours
CMAN 375 Community Health Nursing 3CMAN 375LCommunity Health Nursing3
CMAN 380 Community Health 3
 School of Social Work
Code Title Hours
SOWK 200 Introduction to Social Work 3SOWK 361Special Topics 13
1Only speciﬁc sections satisfy the Engaged Learning requirement. 
These will include the letter E in the section number. Please see LOCUS
for details.
Undergraduate Research
For a course to be designated as “Undergraduate Research“, satisfying
the University Engaged Learning requirement, it must meet all the
following criteria.  Criteria for undergraduate research courses are based
on research, best practices, and the CAS Standards for Undergraduate
Research (2009).
1.The ﬁeld research course engages students on an original research
project (not a simulation), either contributing to a faculty research project
or engaging in an independent research project with a mentor
2.Students conduct research on an ongoing basis, working an average of 5
– 10 hours/week.
3.Students gain knowledge of or experience in discipline-speciﬁc language,
research ethics, skills in research methodologies, and important
scholarship.
4.The learning objectives related to the research experience are clearly
articulated related to their ﬁeld of study, educational goals and/or career
and vocational aspirations.
5.There is supervision and feedback by a mentor who has expertise related
to their ﬁeld of study, educational goals and/or career and vocational
aspirations.
6.The syllabus assignments include reflection assignments and a ﬁnal
synthesis project integrated into the course.
7.There is an outlet to disseminate the original research (e.g., symposium,
conference, scholarly article) integrated into the course.
In addition to classes approved for EL credit in the area of Undergraduate
Research, research projects students pursue under an Independent Study
or Directed Readings course-number may be approved for EL credit if they
meet the criteria. Students should follow the process to request EL credit
on the " Requesting EL Credit  (https://www.luc.edu/celts/programs/
engagedlearning/studentresources/requestingelcredit/ )" page.

--- Page 1404 ---
2025-26 Academic Catalog 1435
All courses that have been approved to satisfy the Engaged Learning
University Requirement are designated with an "E" appended to their
section number, e.g. ANTH 301 01E .  Comprehensive listings of all
approved Engaged Learning classes offered each semester can be found
in LOCUS  (http://www.luc.edu/locus/ ).
College of Arts and Sciences
Code Title Hours
ANTH 314 Applied Anthropology 3ANTH 317Ethnographic Methods3
ANTH 348 Museum & Material Culture Research 3ANTH 361Issues Cultural Anthropology 13
BIOI 397 /
BIOL 395Bioinformatics Survey 11-4BIOI 399Bioinformatics Research1-4
BIOL 296 Introduction to Research 1BIOL 366LCell Physiology & Biochemistry Lab3
BIOL 373 Laboratory in Neuroscience I 14BIOL 390Molecular Biology Laboratory4
BIOL 392 /
COMP 392Metagenomics 3BIOL 395Special Topics in Biology 13
BIOL 396 Research 3CHEM 300Undergraduate Research1-6
CJC 391 Capstone Experience Research 3CLST 380Research in Classical Studies3
COMP 312 Open Source Software Practicum 3COMP 398Independent Study1-6
DANC 398 Research in Dance 1-12ENGL 283Women in Literature 13
ENGL 299 Topics in Advanced Writing 13FNAR 391Senior Thesis in Art History3
FNAR 392 Senior Thesis II: FNAR Art History Capstone 3FNAR 394Topics in Art History 11-4
FRSC 394 Forensic Science Research 1-4HIST 300ATopics 13
HIST 300D Topics in U.S. History (Ramonat Seminar) 1,23HIST 375Digital History 13
INDS 380 Newberry Seminar 16MSTU 300 
& MSTU 301Integrative Experience I 
and Integrative Experience II3
PHYS 126 
& 126FGeneral Physics II Lec/Dis 
and Freshman Projects4PHYS 338Advanced Physics Laboratory2
PHYS 391 Research 1-12PSCJ 399Independent Study3
PSYC 370 Psychology Honors Research 3PSYC 397Independent Research3
SOCL 265 Globalization & Society 3SOCL 397Independent Study Projects3
STAT 370 Data Science Consulting 3STAT 398Independent Study 11-6
THEO 280 Religion & Interdisciplinary Studies 13THEO 299Religions of Asia3
THEO 317 Christian Thought: Ancient-Medieval 13THEO 353Religious Traditions 13or THEO 373Theology Capstone
1Only speciﬁc sections satisfy the Engaged Learning requirement. These
will include the letter E in the section number. Please see LOCUS for
details.
2The  Ramonat Seminar  (http://ramonatseminar.com/ ) is an
interdisciplinary, two-semester course that provides Loyola
undergraduates with the unique opportunity to explore changing topics
within American Catholic history, literature, and culture through hands-
on research. Taught by a Loyola faculty member, the seminar is limited
to 12 participants who pursue common readings in the fall semester
and individual research projects in the spring semester. Unlike standard
undergraduate courses, the Ramonat Seminar provides promising
students, who will be named  Ramonat Scholars , with resources for
research, travel, and even publication in digital and print formats, all
aimed at their general professional development.
Center for Engaged Learning, Teaching, &
Scholarship/Ofﬁce of the Provost
Code Title Hours
EXPL 391 Seminar in Undergraduate Research Methods 3
Parkinson School of Health Science and
Public Health 
Code Title Hours
PUBH 399 Public Health Capstone Experience 3
 School of Education
Code Title Hours
CIEP 366 Special Topic Seminar 3
School of Environmental Sustainability
Code Title Hours
ENVS 323 Environmental Microbiology 13ENVS 350BSolutions to Environmental Problems: Biogas 13
ENVS 338 Climate Change and Human Health 3ENVS 391Environmental Research1-3
1Only speciﬁc sections satisfy the Engaged Learning requirement. These
will include the letter E in the section number. Please see LOCUS for
details.
School of Business
Code Title Hours
BHNR 343 Integrated Analytical Decision Making 3BHNR 353Research Practicum3
ECON 346 Econometrics 13ENTR 390Entrepreneurship Strategies - Capstone3
FINC 345 Portfolio Management 3

--- Page 1405 ---
1436  UNIV 101FINC 356Advanced Topics in Investment Banking and Asset
Management3
FINC 399 Special Topics in Finance (Topics in Inverstment
Banking and Asset Management)1-3MARK 311Marketing Research3
1Only speciﬁc sections satisfy the Engaged Learning requirement. These
will include the letter E in the section number. Please see LOCUS for
details.
School of Communication
Code Title Hours
COMM 365 Naturalistic Methods Communication Research 3COMM 368Ethnographic Research Methods in
Communication3
UNIV 101
UNIV 101 First Year Seminar  is a 1-credit, pass/no pass, extended-
orientation course required for all ﬁrst-year students at Loyola University
Chicago. Each class consists of 22 students or fewer and is taught by a
University faculty or staff member and an undergraduate Peer Advisor.
The class meets for 50-minutes/week during the fall semester.
UNIV 101 First Year Seminar  is a graduation requirement for all ﬁrst-year
degree-seeking undergraduate students. Students must pass UNIV 101
First Year Seminar  during their ﬁrst semester of enrollment at Loyola.
Should a student not pass UNIV 101 First Year Seminar , they must re-
enroll and pass the course during the subsequent semester.
For more information, click on any of the sections below:
Course Description, Goals, and Learning
Outcomes
UNIV 101 First Year Seminar  helps new students make a positive
transition to Loyola University Chicago by helping them adjust to
academic and student life. Students will develop relationships with
their classmates, faculty/staff instructor, and Peer Advisor in order to
foster an inclusive and welcoming community. To make the most of their
experience at Loyola, students will participate in meaningful discussions,
personal reflection, and engaging activities within and outside of the
classroom to learn more about themselves, others, Loyola, and the City of
Chicago.
Goals
1.Foster student academic success and the achievement of their
academic goals
2.Connect students to Loyola University Chicago, our mission, and the
City of Chicago
3.Support student wellbeing and sense of belonging at Loyola
University Chicago
Learning Outcomes
As a result of engaging in UNIV 101 First Year Seminar , students will be able
to:
1.Create an academic and co-curricular plan to make the most of their
experience at Loyola.2.Choose resources and opportunities, on- and off-campus, that help
them achieve their academic, social, personal wellbeing, and career
goals.
3.Describe how the Jesuit mission of Loyola University Chicago, and
the City of Chicago, influence their experience at Loyola.
Section Types
Most students will enroll in a general section of UNIV 101 First Year
Seminar , which consists of students from across campus with different
majors and identities. In addition, some sections are available for
students with speciﬁc majors, communities, and identities. These special
UNIV 101 First Year Seminar  sections may include:
Magis Sections, for Students Who Identify as…
•Asian students
•Commuters
•First-generation college students
•LGBTQ
•Pre-health
•Students of color
•Undecided/undeclared
Major Speciﬁc Sections, for Students Majoring in…
•Communications
•Engineering
•Helping Professions (Social Work, Education, etc.)
•Nursing
•Public Health
•Science, Technology, Engineering, or Math (STEM)
Program Speciﬁc Sections, for Students Involved in….
•Achieving College Excellence (ACE)
•First-Year Research Experience (FYRE)
•Interdisciplinary Honors Program
•Learning Communities
•NCAA Athletics
•Quinlan School of Business Honors Program
•Rambler Success Program (RSP)
•Student Diversity & Multicultural Affairs (SDMA) Mentorship
Programs
